ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Education, Social Affairs and Health, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on the Future, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by Mr Vanhanen, Minister for Finance, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. After group talks, a 1.5-hour debut will follow, divided into two 45-minute sections so that the groups can exchange debators halfway through the debators. Other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Up to 3 hours are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Presentation, Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u2	Mr President! In the summer, the Heads of State of the European Union agreed on a comprehensive recovery package of EUR 750 billion for a one-off period of 2021 to 2023 for recovery and renewal of the Member States' interest rates. Similar packages have been made in China and the United States. There is no doubt that Europe's joint and similar recovery is more effective than every country acting alone. Finland is a small country dependent on international export markets. Europe's recovery is in our interest. The instability of the economy or financial system in other EU Member States would also slow Finland's recovery from the interest rate. In the EU institutions, the final decision on the recovery instrument is still in progress but is in the final stages. The Ministry of Finance, together with other ministries, has conducted a proactive dialogue with the regions, industry and the scientific community during the autumn on how it would be wise to invest the money from the recovery instrument when it comes to making it available to the Member States. The resuscitation must be quick and timely. The reserve won't bring down the boat. As a result of the joint preparation during the autumn, the Government is today submitting a report to Parliament on Finland's sustainable growth programme. It revives, renews and points the way to the post-corona period. Our goal is to target funding effectively and efficiently so that it can make the best possible use of it in the whole country and for all Finns. Finland’s contributions to the European Union’s budget will increase somewhat to finance the recovery instrument. The repayment shall take place over the next thirty years. The wiser we are now to reform our society for a growth career, the easier we will be to repay the debt incurred by both the EU and, in particular, the Finnish State during the interest period. After the interest rate, economic forecasts predict an annual growth rate of about 2.5% for us, until soon after that it fades to a lower level. We should not be content with this, and that is why we need rapid-acting recovery, which at the same time creates lasting growth potential through reforms. The momentary recovery of the economy in the third quarter of this year easily distorts the picture of the situation. It is precisely this year that fiscal policy is very stimulating and will be reflected in this year's economy, without, however, having a reformative effect. The EU recovery package must also be able to reform. So, ladies and gentlemen, the report on Finland's sustainable growth programme contains fins that both contribute to the rapid recovery of our country's economy from the corona crisis and strengthen the long-term growth potential of the economy. The time for rapid resuscitation is when the corona vaccine is in use and we are able to open the economy safely. The right time for recovery is most likely next year. After the financial crisis in 2008, Finland did not get to the pace of the global economy. You have to learn from the past. After the Korona crisis, Finland needs to be brought into a path of strong, environmentally sustainable growth that sustains the integrity of society. In addition to rapid-acting resuscitation, Finland needs long-term restructuring of business structures and public services. Growth fins must be built for the entire decade to come. Finland should take a kind of productivity leap, i.e. by using existing resources to achieve more well-being and prosperity. Finland must now reach the global front in its strengths. Finland’s strengths are in sectors where customers’ needs will be emphasised in international markets. These are products that are as environmentally friendly as possible, innovations in the bio- and circular economy, new production processes and energy production. I find it difficult to understand those who want Finland to cling to foreign fossil coal, oil and gas. It's not in the interests of the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u5	We shall now proceed to the group speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u6	Mr President! No one in this Chamber is sure to be unaware of the depth of the covid-19 pandemic that has driven the economy in Finland and the world. Throughout the world, the figures for the second quarter were extremely gloomy. For example, the euro area economy contracted by nearly 12 per cent in the second quarter compared with the previous quarter. Fortunately, the latest — the third — quarter progress was better. But the crisis is far from over. The second wave of the disease again threatens both health and economic development throughout Europe. Anyone who has followed society for a long time should also remember what should not be done now: repeat the mistakes following the financial crisis. At the time, Europe-wide too early adjustment and economic discipline deepened the recession and ate the conditions for growth. There would be no point in allowing viable companies to go into redundancies or bankruptcy under normal conditions. Such nominal savings would be repaid for decades, with hard human and financial interest. Few economic scientists have chosen to agree on just as much of a question as Finland, Europe and the whole world now need a revitalising economic policy to emerge from this crisis. The report on Finland's sustainable economy, which we are debating today, represents precisely this stimulus. The opposition will certainly raise many times that Finland is the net contributor to the EU recovery package and will question whether it is worthwhile for Finland to be included in the package. This perspective is as short as it is narrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u12	Madam President! The EU is asking Finland for EUR 6.6 billion in the recovery package. Every responsible adult knows that the applicant must provide the reasons and calculations why money should be given:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u17	Mr President! The interest crisis is the biggest crisis since World War II and includes a deep recession. Economist estimates suggest that the crisis should be addressed by using public finances as a buffer, with a temporary increase in deficits being accepted. [Vilhelm Junnila’s interlude] That is why Finland’s leading EU-party delegation is pleased to see the European initiative that has now emerged, which has been building for the assembly close politicians Angela Merkel and Emmanuel Macron — both appreciated in their own country, but both by the left and nationalists. [Leena Sea interlude] A well-functioning and strong EU is in Finland's best interests. As part of a strong economic and political union, we are the most influential and independent. The EU is our home: [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] For the assembly, the rule of law is central. We are not going to finance EU countries where fundamental rights and democracy are being trampled on. Negotiated solutions, the rule of law and budgetary rams will not be withdrawn. The recovery package has been agreed as a one-off. Everyone should understand that the development of greater solidarity cannot take place without us setting the conditions for it together with the like-minded countries. The wider social economy requires a return to a more responsible economy in every country, otherwise it will lead to a crisis in an ageing Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u20	Mr President! Finland is living in the midst of a global economic and health crisis. Time is exceptional, and one way or another the crisis is reflected in almost every home and job. A lot is expected of our decision-makers now. The virus situation must be controlled and human health protected. At the same time, the economy must be kept as open as possible. In addition to tackling the interest rate, we are also required to be able to see beyond the pandemic. The whole of Finland must be taken to the post-corona world, stronger and more attractive. We have to build a way from fog to light. This construction work requires recognition of the facts and grasp of opportunities. The fact is that Finland and Finns, both in rural and urban areas, live in a strong relationship with the rest of the world. Our export-driven, open economy depends on the survival of other economies. The interest crisis has led to a deep economic downturn. The United States and China have strongly revived. Europe cannot remain on fire, but we must look to tomorrow even in the midst of the treatment of the pandemic. Europe must get back on the road to sustainable growth. There's no time to lose. No Member State can survive the crisis alone, but together we are stronger. This was also stated recently in a report adopted unanimously by Parliament, including the Finns of Peru, which underscored not only the need for national resuscitation but also the need for common European instruments. As we agreed at the time, the recovery of the EU economy as a whole is in Finland's interest and there is a sound overall economic justification for coordinated recovery measures. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what this report is all about. The recovery package agreed by the EU countries supports economic development in each Member State and thus in the entire economic area. For Finland, the recovery package is particularly important, as around 60% of our country's exports are to the EU. Exports are made and jobs are created in the provinces. Through many Finnish jobs, Finland depends on how the economy develops, for example, in Germany, Italy or Spain. Similarly, the cost of prolonging the economic crisis in Europe would be devastating for us. This year alone, the state will have to absorb nearly EUR 20 billion in debt. Those critics of the recovery package should therefore compare the readings at first, even to this individual year. Mr President! The Centre presents an investment programme for Finnish work and renewal. The aim is to strengthen competence, increase productivity and processing levels, diversify the business structure, mobilise the whole of Finland's resources and mobilise billion-dollar investments. The EU's recovery money is an important piece of this. The Sustainable Growth Programme rightly contributes both to a rapid recovery and to the long-term need for the restructuring of business structures and public services. Finland's productivity development must be put on the right track, it must take a good leap forward. With the EU recovery package, Finland will also receive more funding for rural development, regional development and the Framework Programme for Research. These investments are important for the strengthening of new growth, employment and regional development throughout Finland. Is this what the Finns are against? For example, broadband connections are the basic infrastructure of the information society, which also support multi-spatial everyday life and equal living conditions throughout Finland. Significant growth prospects are linked to the development of the bio- and circular economy. Is this what the True Finns are against?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u23	Mr President! The Korona virus has had a global impact on human health and everyday life, brought down businesses, took jobs and brought the economy to ruin. China seems to be rising fastest from the pit. States are looking for ways to revive their own economies. [Jussi Halla-aho’s interlude] The EU and its Member States have also drawn conclusions from the deteriorating growth and agreed on a total green transition package of EUR 750 billion. Its purpose is to build a post-pandemic Europe that is better and more sustainable, to create the conditions to cope with future competition and to create hope for recovery from the pandemic and the fight against climate change. ‘Buildbackbetter’ is a worthwhile goal,but there is a The importance of the contribution can be compared to the permanent expenditure of 1.3 billion agreed in the Government negotiations. The Government has stated that at least half of the funding for sustainable growth will be used in Finland to combat climate change and move green. We're going to make a lot of investments. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] The green transition must also be possible for every household. The programme should therefore include support for the infrastructure of electricity and biogas vehicles, the energy efficiency of buildings and the replacement of oil heating with ground heat. Mr President! It has also been discussed in this Chamber that there are probably a wide range of interests in Europe to use the potential for change brought about by the crisis. The most important thing is to move on to sustainable solutions for the climate and nature. That is also what experts have been calling for for for years. Instead of rebuilding the old fossil economy, we should invest in solutions that will bring employment and prosperity also in the 2030s and will no longer increase natural poverty or accelerate climate change. We can commit ourselves to a level of ambition that would not only cause minor harm but would not do any harm at all, i.e. "donoharm". From the perspective of the future, project criteria for municipalities, regions, businesses and other actors should be built on the basis of the UN's 2030 Agenda commitments. It is also essential to set criteria for long-term employment effects and the implementation of the Government's objective of carbon neutrality. The impact of projects on equality and equality must also be taken into account. The Government Programme promises a road map towards European level, 4%, funding for research, development and innovation. How close are we to achieving sustainable growth through the programme? In addition to research, we ensure the vitality of the future by investing in young people and education. Korona has made it difficult for young people to move to work and higher education institutions, delayed studies and cut optimism. A vibrant society needs the vitality, well-being and future faith of young people. We need to increase the starting points for higher education institutions, significantly strengthen the digital skills and services of the entire population, and ensure that the foreign-language population can learn language, train and get to work in line with their skills. The sufferer of Korona has also been the cultural sector, where both employment and welfare effects are significant. The Greens suggest that a specific 2% target for cultural recovery is also set, as recommended by the European Parliament, in order to promote accessibility and to provide people with the life of art and culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u24	Mr President! The Corona virus epidemic has triggered a global crisis. Finland has done well in international comparisons — so far — but we too have had a worrying increase in infection rates in the second wave of the virus. That is what we have already learned from the pandemic that protecting health and the economy are not opposite objectives. Effective control of the virus is also a priority for the economy. A significant part of this millennium has gone from economic crises in Europe to recovery. Finland had only just recovered from the previous economic crisis when the corona struck. There is an increasing consensus that the economic discipline line chosen after the financial crisis hindered the recovery of the economies of the countries in crisis. The cuts to public services, social security and investment in the middle of the recession weaken the conditions for economic growth. It is important that Europe now understands this. Finland cannot afford to repeat the mistakes of the recession of the 1990s and Europe cannot afford to repeat the mistakes of the euro crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u29	Mr President, värderade talman! The EU Recovery Fund is not some billion-dollar sack of Santa Claus. The fund would not have been created without the coronavirus pandemic, which has had an exceptional impact on the world as a whole, changed our behaviour and caused the European economy extremely serious problems. As the Finance Minister, Mr Vanhanen, very well said, we must be very careful about how this money is directed. This is an important budget outside the framework of our national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u30	Madam President! The government opens the door to new funding mechanisms that do not build an economically sustainable and stable Europe. If we enter through this door, we will have a debt - filled future. This can't be wise. The Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament has a negative attitude towards the introduction of an EU recovery instrument and, therefore, a critical attitude towards the sustainable growth agenda. The report states that ‘in the long term,the financing of the Finnish financial support instrument will This statement gives the public a slightly wrong impression. In reality, Finland will receive more than EUR 3 billion from the Recovery Facility but will have to finance it by more than EUR 6.5 billion. This is not sustainable economic management.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u37	Mr President, ärade talman! At least during the year of interest it has been learned to take public debt and distribute it to all possible targets. The EU's recovery package is its own number, and billions are now being distributed. It is good to remember that Finland is a net contributor to the EU, i.e. the billions to be distributed here we are paying ourselves double, and that is not enough. Investment through the recovery package must bring an increase of at least EUR 6 billion, otherwise the whole package will be so-called assless. The Prime Minister's speech on uniqueness and precision is his own chapter. The EU already states that this package can become a permanent model. The total responsibility for Finland is 2.8 billion per year. Over the EU budget alone, the responsibility is almost 20 billion, and now the EU, and Finland, will pay until 2058. Ministers Marin and Tuppurainen, tell Finnish taxpayers at last and finally in a clear Finnish language what you have agreed to in the summer. Otherwise, the reality of this debt rally is becoming blurred. There have already been speeches on the left side of this Chamber that public debts are not even to be repaid. [Right : Ohhh! ] It is clear that the interest rate will undermine the economy this year and even next year, but the most important task for the government is to start thinking about the post-pandemic period. It seems strongly that this government is incapable of any reform, but in the shadow of the corona it is taking debt and keeping its own voters satisfied. The next generation won't vote yet, but they'll pay the debt. Now we're handing out debt money when only someone understands what they're asking. It is not enough to reform the household allowance, but for everything else. Now, for example, municipalities have been so generously funded that some do not know where to put state aid. The same is true of the EU. Spain, Italy and a few other Member States have the pain of developing such good plans that they dare to receive these billions of dollars from the EU debt package. Mr President, ärade talman! Why should Finland be a model student in the EU at all costs? We are quite satisfied with the objective of being carbon neutral in 2045, as in Sweden, and not 2035. What's so urgent about things this big? Too much haste is causing Finland a billion-dollar disadvantage to competitiveness. For example, in transport emissions, the normal renewal of the car fleet would solve the problem without costly and self-induced haste. Otherwise, the recovery package speaks very generally. It is good to return to this when the details are clear. The distribution of the EU recovery package is quite tumbling around Finland. It has been accompanied by teleconferences between the state, the regional government, the regions and the decision-makers of the municipalities when the EU is becoming euros. And when you have to have something in every area, you don't really have much to do with it. [Excessive interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u38	Minister Vanhanen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u39	Mr President! This debate, quite rightly, goes to the basic questions of resuscitation. This year we owe the state some EUR 20 billion, but are we reforming something with it? In my speech I just replied that we did not. We maintain our activities, we maintain household demand for consumption, the provision of public services, and we try to keep as many companies as possible alive, and even this debt will be met by generations without us creating new growth potential with it. The creation of a continental, coordinated, one-way recovery package at Union level is the objective of creating growth. The Christian representative, Mr Laukkanen, said that 3 billion here and there — that is one aspect. It is not “yoursort ” but well planned. The growth potential of this package is being created by the fact that EUR 750 billion of public funds will be spent at European level, which will require a wide range of national contributions, the investment of businesses. And when about half of this pot will be used on a European scale for the green transition to digitalisation, it will create hundreds of billions of investment and demand for new energy technologies, renewable energy technologies, energy savings and digitalisation, precisely in sectors where Finnish businesses and industry are at their strongest, [of the Socialist Group : Just like!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u41	Now I would ask those Members who wish to make a reply, to stand up and reserve a reply from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u42	Mr President! It is good to continue with what Mr Vanhanen said. If there is a question to be asked whether it is in Finland's interest that the whole of Europe should recover, then of course it is. Is it in Finland's interest that the recovery is directed in an unprecedented way towards green investments, circular economy, combating climate change, technologies? Of course it is, because it is we Finns who have the skills to do it. Is it in Finland’s interest that the recession caused by this pit, the corona, is now resuscitation in Europe? Of course it is, because we are an export-driven country. As far as this repayment is concerned, there is a carbon duty which at the same time pays back this package before long and also brings fair competition in relation to the rest of the world, and there is a digital tax that also brings. In other words, I see that it is in Finland's interest to be revived, Finland's interest is to be revived specifically for green technologies, and it is also in Europe's interest to have carbon tariffs,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u43	Mr President! Efforts were made to resolve the previous crisis with national matrices in Greece and Italy. This had political consequences in these countries. Now an attempt is being made to prevent a time bomb built into the EU and the euro from exploding by socialising the chronic problems of these countries together. That is what this is all about, which is already reflected in the criteria for allocating recovery funds. Of course, Europe has suffered from the interest rate, but the interest rate is not the reason for deepening the debt union and the income transfer union. Korona is an excuse to sell this project to the citizens of the payers, such as Finland. Unfortunately, the socialisation of the problems will lead to an incentive to solve the structural problems of the economy. Rather, it deepens them. We do not disagree on the need for resuscitation. We disagree with the way in which it is done or done.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u44	Mr President! Hungary and Poland have expressed their opposition to the whole agreement on the EU budget, the recovery instrument, because they do not accept the agreement reached in the trilogues on the rule of law mechanism. According to the German Presidency of the EU, in the follow-up negotiations, everyone has to make a little compromise. What could this mean for Finland? What kind of solutions are being sought at the summit? The Assembly believes that the forthcoming negotiations on the rule of law mechanism should not compromise and that the whole solution should be taken at the same time. In other words, the coalition cannot accept or support a solution whereby the rule of law mechanism is either watered down or transferred to a future. This is a very serious question for Parliament's decision-making, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister: do you promise Parliament that the rule of law mechanism will not be watered down?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u45	Madam President! The well-being of Finns and the survival of this country are entirely based on exports. Exports are made and jobs are created in industry and other companies throughout Finland and quite a bit in the provinces, and in the provinces these companies need export destinations. Our main export area is this Europe of our own continent and the EU region, and the success of the provinces, the jobs of the provinces, the opportunities for life there, is an essential factor in the recovery of the EU from this corona crisis. At the same time as China and the USA are doing a great deal of reviving, it would be a mistake not to have the European Union revived too. Mr President! Here the Finns of Peru are opposed to these stimulus aids in the provinces, and this weekend we heard from opposition leader Halla-aho that he is opposed to all other subsidies in the provinces. I would therefore like to hear here, President, if you will, Mrs Halla-aho, above all young farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u46	Madam President! The economic crisis caused by the interest rate is a crisis that Finland would not be able to cope with alone. As an export-driven country, we can be pleased that the EU is able to make a joint recovery. The recovery of the EU economy is in all respects in Finland's interest. Now is the time to envision the knowledgeable, vibrant Finland of the future that we want to build with this stimulus money. Climate-resistant solutions that Finnish companies have to offer, a climate-proof way of life that Finns want to implement, new operating models that protect the environment, measures to increase knowledge and innovation, and measures to increase and improve people's ability and young people's opportunities are also measures that support the shared goal of this government to be the first carbon-neutral welfare society in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u47	Mr President! We are here on an important issue, and when I read this report this weekend, which has been submitted here in writing from the Council of State, I was a little surprised. However, when this great solution of principle concerns precisely the Europe of the future, how will we, together, overcome this crisis — and it also requires some sensible mutual financing mechanisms to be applied for here — ensure that this does not end up in the common debt liability, but that the no bail-out principle will be put into effect in the future — I ask the Minister for Finance how this will happen — why, however, does the report focus on the distribution of money by describing all the good things that can be done without actually being elected out of them? Thus, it is stated that ‘thereis no prioritising ofthe preparations,some of which will be eligible for funding’. Why is this report made of all the good and beautiful things that haven't really been chosen?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u48	Madam President! The economy of Europe and the world has been hit hard by Korona. Although Finland has done better in economic and health terms than the average, among the best in the world, it has also been seen in our economy. It is therefore extremely important from the perspective of every Finnish citizen that we create work and livelihood in Finland, but also in Europe as a whole. We are an export-driven country, we have a lot of jobs in the export industry. It has a direct impact on the domestic market, on livelihoods and on people's employment, as well as on those working in the export industry. Therefore, if you are against the revival of the European economy, it means that you are against Finnish employment. Mr President! I wonder in what parallel reality Mr Halla-aho lives when he claims that this means of recovery has been made for something other than corona. Look around.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u49	Madam President! The guidelines for the projects of the Finnish sustainable growth programme are justifiable in themselves, but the main concern of the Christian Democrats is how this recovery is being carried out. As the recovery fund comes about, it will fundamentally change the Union's activities, the key principles to which Finns have in due course given the mandate to join. The Union will therefore start to finance this with a debt, and it will not be possible to manage it within the existing structures, but in the future we will pay even higher membership fees, and will also collect taxes at EU level, which were very much enjoyed here on the left side of the Chamber. How is it possible that this time this money, which will be distributed to the various Member States, should be spent better than we have seen in the use of European money so far? How can we be sure that this money really does do what we want to do?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u50	Irade the Talman! We should consider what this package means for Finland, but we should also consider what the situation would be if this package did not exist, as Mr Vanhanen said. What would Europe be like if we could not agree on such a package together in such a situation, in such a crisis? It is important that we use our resources wisely, but it is also important that, in this crisis, we develop the EU in the right direction. In this respect, the rule of law raised by Mr Orpo is extremely important. It is essential for the credibility of the EU as a whole, as well as for the responsible use of this money. That is why it is so incomprehensible that the Finns of Peru are now applauding those who want the rules not to be respected, that the rule of law does not have to be respected, that this money can be passed on to close circle, Mr President, that our money — because yes, we are a net contributor here — can be used irresponsibly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u51	Mr President! Good government, do you know how the EU project world revolves? It happens that the things that should be done by the public administration are done through the most difficult way: more bureaucracy, more spending of money, more difficulty on all sides. This sustainable growth programme is a good example of an even worse form of project jargon. It is full of measures that the public administration should take, whether programme or not. There is not a single measure here that we would not be able to do more cost-effectively and effectively with our own national funding if we wanted to do so. It is very embarrassing to talk about the cost-effectiveness of the programme when we get less than half of our contribution to the programme, and it also goes to a giant project jargon between Finland and the EU. You understood this, the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u53	Mr President! Mr Mykkänen regretted that there are no more specific guidelines on how money is spent around these main themes. I welcome the fact that Parliament has been given the opportunity to give direction. This report will be discussed by the Committee on Finance and the Committees on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and will show the political, democratic direction in which this money will be used as effectively and surely as possible to support sustainable development, the acceleration of growth and the rise from this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u56	Mr President! I would like to start by saying that the rule of law and democracy go hand in hand: without democracy there is no rule of law and without the rule of law there is no democracy. These include independent courts and the press. That is why it is important that this issue should also be raised here. But is there a need for a joint recovery package? I am convinced that it is, indeed, necessary. Of course, it can be asked whether this package, which has been agreed, is the best possible for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u61	Mr President! Getting to the moral good of sustainable growth leads to heavy decisions, which are paid for by working citizens and self-employed people and their families. In practice, as we can conclude from the closure of a large number of industrial plants, the fair transition that the left is calling for will be made unemployed. These lofty goals are overshadowed by the central print of the Finnish EU line: we pay more to get less. The government talks about a carbon- and gender-neutral environment but has forgotten the most important, namely economic sustainability, the environment. Just think that the so-called right-wing party, which has sometimes presented strict economic discipline, implements the ideals of socialism on a practical level. If we don't have enough money, we'll print more. If the deficit limits are approaching, they will be exceeded. If there's a debt available, it's taken. At the same time, the debt has become common. That is what you are in favour of, Mr Orphan, and that is what you are in favour of.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u62	I would remind Members here that one minute is one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u63	Madam President! It is sometimes said that parties do not differ and politics do not matter, but I think that this debate shows once again that parties have differences and different values. [Department:Good! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u64	Madam President! Minister Vanhanen said that this billion-dollar grant package at EU level is unquestionably more effective than that everyone would revive on their own. I would like to know what this argument is based on. So did you refer, for example, to the whole Eurosystem, which is threatened by the economic situation in Italy, or what? We know, however, that Finland could revive very effectively by other means. And as far as these problem countries, for example, are concerned, there are many other solutions that should first be taken to improve this own economy. Secondly, when we look at where this money is being put, I would like to know how this differs from the usual distribution of money according to your government programme or from what you have already done to support those who otherwise suffered from the interest rate and sectors. Here again, we are supporting walking, electricity charging points, culture, integration of immigrants, spending money to implement the care guarantee — and then saying: recovery, recovery, recovery. How do you justify this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u67	Mr President! It is estimated that Finland’s membership of the EU will benefit us financially by EUR 13 billion a year. This package, on the other hand, will increase EU GDP by 2% and even more in Finland, because we are an export-driven economy with the potential to sell green technologies to other countries as well as to promote digitalisation. The questions are: how do we get out of this crisis quickly, that is, how do we reduce the care debt as quickly as possible after this corona virus, and how do we build growth so that it will bring our added value and economic growth to a long future? This means cooperation with business, research and development. The surprise of this discussion has been that the Finns of Peru would not revive at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u70	Mr President! Firstly, I would like the Prime Minister to answer my question on the rule of law and negotiations. It's probably coming. But as for this claim made by Poland and Hungary to water down this rule of law mechanism and to your support for them, I find it incredible. You here are opposed to joint action by the EU, but you are prepared to overlook the fact that the people close to Orbán are pulling into their pockets EU money, our common money.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u71	Again here I say good interludes are good, but that kind of constant noise is not good. And now, Prime Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u72	Mr President! Mr Orpo's question on the rule of law and the rule of law mechanism: Finland has left it and our most important negotiating objectives have been to commit a strong rule of law mechanism to the use of EU funds in a reliable way. In other words, if there were a lack of rule of law in a Member State, it would be tackled and the payment of EU funds could even be suspended in such a situation. Our main objectives, both during the Presidency last autumn and since then, have been the strong involvement of this principle both in the multiannual financial framework and in this recovery instrument. Finland assumes that this outcome of the negotiations with Parliament is the basis for our progress. We have given this our support, and the agreement reached with Parliament has been good. We must remember, however, that, as we have agreed with the Member States in July, this rule of law will be decided by qualified majority at Council level, which means that no Member State alone will be able to bring down this rule of law. In other words, when the question is asked in the Chamber whether I can promise this whole thing — when this is a qualified majority decision, then, of course, this cannot be resolved by a single prime minister, but by a qualified majority at Council level. And this is what Finland has been pushing for, precisely because this rule of law cannot be overturned by one Member State. But, of course, we assume that this agreement with Parliament is what should go ahead. We want a strong mechanism for the rule of law, a mechanism such as that which also works in practice. This has been a sine qua non for us in the negotiations on the financial framework and the recovery instrument as a whole, and I will take this position as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u73	Madam President! Representative Orpo now accuses the Finns of supporting the European partner of the Coalition Party Fidesz and Orbán.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u78	Mr President! Firstly, at the initiative of the Assembly, Fidesz's membership of the EPP has been frozen and their membership and our proposal to expel them will return when the corona allows for a physical meeting. But as far as Hungary and Poland are concerned, it is not their conservative policy, but that these countries simply violate the rule of law, restrict freedom of expression, interfere with the functioning of the Court of Justice, the appointment of judges, the essential elements of democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u81	Madam President! I strongly believe that Finnish voters and provinces need both Halla-aho and Kurvis. Pretty good for both of us in the last election. But I would like to say that this recovery solution was part of the EU budget and the financial framework, and I would like to thank Prime Minister Sanna Marin in particular for that. He did a really good job of negotiating at the EU tables in the summer. This recovery instrument is linked to these other EU funds: EU agricultural aid, regional structural aid and the so-called fair transition to JTF. And they will be excellent for us in the regions and rural areas of Finland. For example, support for agriculture and rural areas will increase by around 6%. It's part of this big picture. But, President-in-Office, it is still unclear what is the most harmful subsidies that the Finns in Finland want to give up. I'd love to hear it when they've moved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u82	Mr President! It is great that almost the whole Chamber has taken a strong stand here in favour of implementing the rule of law. The views of the Finns on the free movement of Poland and Hungary, including freedom of expression and human rights, are truly frightening. Mr President! Successful resuscitation is essential. We have supported the proposal of the Finnish Climate Panel to speed up renewable energy projects through tendering. In this way, we could cost-effectively accelerate low-emission energy production by, for example, offshore wind power, large-scale solar power plants and deep heat. It is important to have leverage to increase private investment and target sustainable growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u83	Mr President! According to a recent study by Statistics Finland and the OECD, around 500,000 Finnish jobs are dependent on exports, 500,000. Less than 15% of our exports go to Germany and, as Mr Kalli said, 60% of our total exports to the EU. In Finland, the forest industry uses all the side streams to the advantage, even as a fuel for cars. The steel industry is moving from coal and natural gas to electricity and hydrogen. Among other things, these investments will enable Finland to become completely new occupations and industries in the future. This is all about safeguarding and strengthening Finland's competitiveness. Do the Finns Party really think that strengthening Finland’s competitiveness, other than the employee’s paycheck, is pointless and should not be invested in it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u84	Mr President! Let us try to stick to this debate on the EU recovery package; this sort of process of individual recovery is just nonsense in that survey. That effect comes from this general demand effect, and we do not tend to, when Finland revives, to ask whether Lake Siilinjärvi can use its own money — yet Lake Siilinjärvi benefits from it. And that is what we are looking for, the recovery of Europe as a whole. But there are huge things going on here. In southern Europe, there is a real belief and hope that this will become permanent, and that is why it is so important that we stick to these principles of good economic governance in the negotiations that are ruthlessly firm. And I really hope that the government with other like-minded people will be ruthlessly firm in this, as well as in this rule of law. After all, the recovery package will not be decided by qualified majority, as far as I have understood it, and then it will be entirely possible for you, Prime Minister Marin, to keep it firm and not soft, as you did.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u85	Now, let's have a couple of ministerial speeches. First the Prime Minister, two minutes, then the Finance Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u86	Mr President! I can assure you that it is not a question of Finland acting softly in any way in the negotiations. We reached a negotiated solution between the Member States in July and, as part of this negotiated solution, we agreed on a strong rule of law mechanism,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u91	Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u92	Mr President! Whether national or EU-level recovery is being carried out: I had the right and the opportunity to lead these recovery decisions in Finland after the financial crisis. It was a national resuscitation. Tax recovery was made, for example, on income tax, a great deal was invested in housing construction, the construction of various roads and rail links — in fact, all the so-called completed projects were dug up and financed. It brought national results for a moment, but it did not bring lasting benefits to our competitiveness or export. Now that there is a chance of coordinating with a common message, with demands, at European level, with the recovery of investments which now happen to be the best possible outcome for the structure of our exports, it is certainly worth taking up the fact that we have hundreds of billions in demand for the issues in which our industry and our service production are ready.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u95	Mr President! This is a good place to go. It does not in any way matter how this historic recovery package is targeted. The Coalition Party does want the strengthening of skills to be placed at the centre of politics, and this billion that we have proposed to be targeted was both education and research. We would like to focus it on the capitalisation of Finnish universities, and therefore the Coalition Party would be willing to invest more than twice as much in education and research as the Government is now doing. So I ask: is the government not prepared to invest properly in our future in this regard? I believe that high levels of knowledge and well-functioning, sustainable transport connections are the keys to sustainable growth and also keys to competitiveness. In this respect, I would also point out that this report does not include transport investments, even if sustainable transport projects, particularly rail projects, support the objectives of the recovery programme on employment, sustainability and green transition. I would also like to ask why:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u96	Mr President! The interest crisis creates a significant need to revitalise the economy that has suffered from the pandemic, and this should be obvious to all those interested in employment and welfare in Finland. It's not like it's a project project project. The recovery package is an instrument that provides funds to Member States to pursue a recovery policy. The recovery instrument is direct support to the real economy. Perhaps in this Chamber, by way of exception, I would like to praise the other party's group speech and do so in my own name, even though I myself was a group speaker. Mr Hopsu spoke very well about supporting culture and event production. When we get out of this corona, we also need a spiritual recovery, and that is where the cultural sector, which has survived a pandemic without bankruptcy, has an important role to play. I want to give you this compliment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u97	Mr President! I would like us to actually have this debate here on the rule of law, because it is good to remember that it has a legal and political dimension. The Commission, which ultimately distributes sanctions, is not an independent court itself but a political body. We would need a wide-ranging debate on this, because half-minute speeches cannot open up such a wide-ranging issue. I would have asked the ministers, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance, now these calculations and impact assessments, to which a lot of people here claim that it is self-evident that exports are improving, is self-evident that and this and that. In this report, I can only see the Commission's assessment of the situation in Europe as a whole. Good lawmaking also includes the own-initiative introduction of impact assessments, according to the opinions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Where are these calculations? I could get to know these arguments you keep making.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u98	Madam President! Let me quote an old analogy: there seem to be people here who, so to speak, remove the safety when they hear the words EU, climate or sustainable development. Industry does not think this way. At the end of August, the technology industry published its scenario on how the Finnish technology industry will survive this corona crisis. There are six different options. In the short term, I will only list the worst for the better: the worst was that the cross-sectoral international crisis deepened; the fifth, i.e. the second, was localisation or protectionism; the fourth was stabilisation; the third, which was then also the third best, was a slow recovery; then there was a rapid recovery; the very best was digital green acceleration, in the view of the technology industry. These words must be raging on the right side of the hall, but they were, in the opinion of the technology industry, what Finland was doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u99	Mr President! Finland’s sustainable growth programme includes a fair transition fund, which is intended, among other things, for regions suffering from the effects of reduced use of energy peat. The sub-regions form such an area. The money for reducing the impact is necessary, it has also been praised here. However, it has now emerged that this so-called JTF aid cannot be directly targeted at facilitating the acute situation of peat producers. The demand for energy peat fades, and expensive equipment purchased as a debt rusts unnecessarily in the peat field. In such a situation, the opportunities for retraining are not warmed up when entrepreneurs are facing bankruptcy. I would like to ask whether the government still intends to influence the terms of use of the fund in order to put the name of the fund into practice, or whether the government is preparing other national
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u100	Mr President! Europe is a vital market for us, but it is good to remember that there is also bloody competition within Europe. Both completely new industrial investments and the locations of global groups are in competition within Europe, and I will therefore return to the importance of stimulating private RD investment in particular, because otherwise, as net contributors, we may even pay for the weakening of our relative position in the global market.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u101	Mr President! When we talk about national and European resuscitation, it is now honest to say that if the economy of all countries were as good as that of these net contributors, all countries would be able to revive themselves and no such package would be needed. That is why it is extremely important for the Assembly to demand that this be conditional on the existence of systems which force countries to put their affairs in order. But I would also like to return to this rule of law and to Poland and Hungary, for which there has been a commendable consensus here, with the exception of perhaps one group, that they should now take that line, they have been looked at here for far too long without any significant measures being taken. I would like to ask you again when, if I have understood correctly, the French Minister for European Affairs suggested that this recovery package could be carried out without Poland and Hungary. I think it is okay for others to be excluded, because the contributions of others will then be lower, and if they do not comply with the common rules, then let them be excluded.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u102	Madam President! Here today, many mouths are assured that Finland lives from exports, but we do not want to be any raw material production, but we want to develop and improve products. And I would now like to ask our ministers — who can best answer this question: what is the chance of this recovery funding raising the level of processing in different products and then not increasing emissions? I would see this opportunity being very important to us. Industry has already taken its own measures and prepared itself with considerable investment in these new so-called green investments, but above all it would improve industrial competitiveness and then also reduce emissions and also demand on the world market. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u103	Madam President! Indeed, 6 billion will be given, 3 billion will be given, not even directly to decide what to do with them, but to have the framework conditions fully included. Our own money is distributed and praised that we will receive money from the EU. It's kind of like a gimmick, isn't it? You can't really do this except downtown.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u105	Madam President! It is very special to think of the situation that the rule of law is equally clear to almost all of us in this Chamber and to the EU Member States, except Poland, Hungary and the True Finns. In their counter-opinion, there was talk of differences in interpretation in the large committee. Is it a question of interpreting for itself what this is about and what it is intended to achieve? I do not understand how you want to send a message to Finnish taxpayers not to care about their money, but to defend Hungary and defend their way of distributing EU funding to their own people. [Interjection from the Basic Finns Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u106	Madam President! Direct quote from the Government Programme: ‘We are committed to a knowledge-based policymaking and a systematic impact assessment in all Just like the representative. The sea pointed out here, the report does not comment on the impact of the recovery package on the development of Finland's gross domestic product. Good government, has no country-specific impact assessment been made at all, and if not, why? The representative shall also: Mr Laukkanen raised a good question here: does anyone believe that the problems in Italy and Spain will end there? I would like to continue with another question: do they need to undergo even painful structural reforms so that we will not be in this situation again?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u107	Madam President! The package has agreed to improve biodiversity and achieve good water status. It is clear that industrial projects which conflict with these objectives are not covered by this funding. Young people must be helped, but young people also have a future. The Youth Package addresses the problems of young people and seeks to help. It is recalled that there is also a future for Finland in terms of knowledge and the potential of young people, which will determine how we manage. We no longer want to invest in turfers that take away the world's conditions and biodiversity and increase climate emissions, but we want to invest in knowledge that will provide young people with a future on a planet that can live a hundred years from now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, now we have had the first 45 minutes of this debut, and now we have the opportunity to change teams if we want to.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u109	Mr President! I believe that government ministers and government parties have spoken well about this rule of law, but it may be very likely that the German Presidency, under the leadership of Merkel, will have to do a little watering down to the rule of law in order to get Poland and Hungary involved. In this regard, when the Prime Minister said that these can be brought down parliamentaryly, I would like to ask the government directly: if the rule of law is watered down at the next Council, can Finland bring it down here parliamentaryly?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u110	Mr President! The representative Kurvinen asked what regional subsidies the Finns would like to stop. This is a misunderstanding. The goal of the Finns Party is not to abolish subsidies but to reduce the need for subsidies. This is done, for example, by pursuing a tax policy and climate policy that attracts investment and creates new jobs in the regions, which, on the one hand, lowers the price of housing, heating and mobility, increases people's disposable income and improves the profitability of taking up work. Mr Orpo asked us how we would react if values such as freedom of expression were violated in Finland, such as in Hungary or Poland. This is an interesting question for a representative who, together with his party, recently voted in favour of a parliamentary representative being prosecuted for exercising his constitutional freedom of expression in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u111	Mr President! In the past, Mr Halla-aho spoke about this in the context of the Hungarian side that it is a question of the EU side politicising the rule of law and that the EU does not like the conservative policy of the governments of these countries. Mr Halla-aho, those problems in those countries relate to the independence and independence of the judiciary, that is to say, to the assurance that every person is equal in the face of justice and has already been threatened in Hungary and Poland. For example, if a Finnish company, for example, invests or operates in those countries, it must be convinced that there will be fair and fair treatment in relation to the rule of law. It is not a question of politicising it; it is a fundamental issue that relates to everything we do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u112	Madam President! Finland will recover if the EU recovers. It is precisely for this reason that Finnish industry, entrepreneurs, employee centre organisations, MTK and regional councils are also in favour of a common European recovery. When opposed to European recovery, Finns are opposed to the cause of business, entrepreneurship, employees, agriculture and rural development. It's good to talk open. I would also like to ask you if you are aware of what these EU projects and investments are doing. They create jobs. For example, in my country, Satakunta, EU subsidies are directed at business development, growth and internationalisation, as well as the development of skills, robotics, digitalisation, circular economy. Which of these would the Finns not want to support in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u113	At this point, I will give Minister Vanhanen two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u114	President! This debate is good because it raises options that need to be considered. After all, the alternative of representative Halla-aho and the Finns of Peru is this reduction in costs. You have brought it up throughout the debate on the budget and throughout the autumn. In the alternative budget, you propose, among other things, that energy taxes and taxes on mobility be set at the level of last June. Maybe this is where the proportions and images get confused. I would say that last June's tax level may not be such as to make it decisive for regional development, for example, as to what could then be done away with these subsidies. Mr Meri rightly asked me about these impact assessments. This is not the stage yet; this report describes the structure of the preparation of this programme. The programme will set targets for the various priorities identified by the government. The setting of targets means that it must be possible to measure their implementation, and the Commission will also require an assessment of their implementation, and it will do so itself before the final monetary decisions come. In other words, by measuring the objectives and their implementation, these effects will also come. This is, I might say, an entirely different mechanism for a recovery than one could say, the traditional recovery has been — I think in all Member States — in the past. There will be a much higher level of ambition here, and so it should be.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u115	Madam President! Have the hall’s bright headlines seen the police bang and throw protestors into the dungeon in Catalonia? And are you aware of the massive corruption in Bulgaria and Romania?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u118	Mr President! After all, during the last parliamentary term there was a debate with the Hungarian and Polish ministers for justice on this rule of law, and I believe that these countries are going to go a long way in the wrong direction if this issue is not addressed, and that is why we must take this issue seriously. And I would ask the Minister for Finance when the Prime Minister left: will Finland really stick to this overall package so that the budget does not move forward if the rule of law does not move forward? It would be good to have an answer now before Parliament. And then on to this second great set of principles. Now that the basic economic rules have been virtually set aside because of the interest rate — a little of the Member States' self-responsibility in financial management, as well as the budgetary discipline provisions — will the Finnish Government propose that these rules in some form be restored, and when is such a proposal coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u119	Mr President! Mr Meri and many others have hoped that the rule of law might be discussed. Mr Halla-aho made it very clear that the rule of law has been politicised within this framework of the Union. President, I am inclined to agree with this view — insofar as the rule of law, anti-corruption, freedom of the media, freedom of expression and the independence of the courts are all political principles, political values and we want to defend them in the Union. That is the starting point for all of us. You said that this is actually a question of condemning the conservative policy that is being pursued in Poland and Hungary. There are others — Purra referred to other countries. We have all registered these violations of the rule of law. But once the Council of Europe has put Poland under monitoring and is seriously considering putting Hungary under monitoring for violation of the rule of law, you can be absolutely sure that this process will not be initiated on a party-political basis by this key human rights body throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u120	Mr President! As a liberal in spirit and blood myself, I am happy to listen to a conservative policy, but the interpretation that the crumbling of the institutions of central democracy is conservative does sound strange. This movement is not needed in Finland. As far as the package itself is concerned, it is precisely what is being done here: to revive the economy weakened by the corona virus while at the same time speeding up the necessary ecological reconstruction and reforming economic structures. That is exactly what the experts have said and what they consider necessary and justified. It is unusual for bogeymans to have a debt in such a situation and at the same time reduce even more serious climate and ecological debt — it makes it even more special. I would have asked the government myself: it is great that half of this is being used to move green, but of course it is important that this is the right direction, that the other half does not harm it and does not conflict with it. How do we deal with this in practice?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u121	Mr President! I'm not going to Poland or Hungary anymore. I have at least become very clear on the principles of the rule of law,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u124	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about Finland paying 6 billion and getting a little 3 billion. But it must also be remembered that, even if we do not take into account this net contribution, this way of starting this recovery fund with a common debt means that Finland itself would receive, directly from the financial markets, that money which could then be donated directly to these EU Member States. This would therefore be a cheaper job for Finland in terms of interest rates than to do this through this recovery tool. I understand, of course, that it is important for the government to make a political commitment to this objective. Mr President! In this recovery fund, it is extremely important that this money should be spent wisely. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: now that this money is scattered here, how can we ensure that the clear lines of action are maintained here?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u125	Mr President! Does the central part of the Chamber not find it problematic that such moral interests, such as the rule of law, play a central economic policy role? Not at all? Does not even Mr Orpo find it a problem that ideological values that are not linked to economic policy are starting to guide its implementation? Traditionally, this kind of steering influence has been regarded as socialist.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u137	Mr President! A few comments on this debate. First of all, this sustainable growth recovery is supported in Finland by industry, entrepreneurs, ay movement,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u142	Mr President! In my opinion, it is really strange that this issue should not be made clear by repeating it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u145	Let us take Mr Lindtman and then a few ministerial speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u146	Mr President! Mr Halla-aho, you are now trying to say away from what you have just said. You argued that these processes of the rule of law against Poland and Hungary were about being punished for a conservative policy. That is how you argued that it is a question of politicising the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u147	Representative Halla-aho, followed by these promised ministerial speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u148	Mr President! No one disputes the problems in Poland, Hungary
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u149	And now Ministers Vanhanen, Leppä and Mikkonen have asked to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u150	Mr President! It is difficult for me to accept this recent interpretation by Mrs Halla-aho,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u159	Mr President! Finland’s sustainable growth programme and the EU’s financial framework create long-term sustainability, stability and predictability — exactly what Finland has wanted in these uncertain times. This long-term approach is particularly important for agriculture, Finnish food production, bioeconomy and rural industries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u162	Mr President! For the sake of interest, we must revive both in Finland, in Europe and in the world, and it is extremely important that, while solving this economic issue, we also respond to other crises, i.e. resuscitation, in a way that responds to both the climate crisis and the natural disaster. That is why it is extremely important that the EU's recovery instrument also allocates a significant amount to climate action, and we in Finland have agreed to allocate at least half of climate action. In addition to that, we will ensure that the other funds used do not cause significant damage to climate action or biodiversity, so we also want to promote climate action, not only on the green shift, but also on the RD, digitalisation and sustainable infrastructure. It was pointed out that why this package is funding actions that have already been included in the Government Programme. I would be more surprised if we now started to come up with some completely new measures when our government programme is precisely based on the same idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u163	And Minister Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u164	Mr President! This entity is important for the revitalisation of the Finnish economy, not only because of the economy, but also because it is socially and ecologically sustainable, as mentioned above. An ageing Finland will not survive without workers, without taxpayers, partly international ones. In this Chamber it has often been called for how, for example, work and study-based residence permits should be processed more quickly so that we can have international experts here. This package now sees one possibility. Digitalisation will be accelerated and utilised, and many ministries will put the mosquitoes together and make this matter work better. We already know that in the IT sector, for example, we already have a shortage of experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u168	Mr President! It is clear that Finland shares common European values and the rule of law, but Finland must by no means go and share European debts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u174	Mr President! On several occasions in this Chamber, the Finns of Peru have suggested that the recovery money should be used in full for domestic recovery. So I ask the Finns: have you assessed the impact of such a solution on Finland's export income, when many European countries that are important for Finland's exports are likely to collapse without this stimulus package? I dare myself to estimate that the overall contribution of Finland in this whole recovery package would be clearly more than what would be in the jacket.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u175	Mr President! Minister Mikkonen spoke just now, a moment ago, about the Government Programme, and I quote a direct quote from the Government Programme: ‘Finland is actively participating At the same time, emphasising that each Member State has the primary responsibility for its own economy. At the same time, Finland considers it important that EU countries pursue an economic and fiscal policy that respects the responsible EU Stability and Growth Pact.” Now I ask the Minister, when the entry in this Government Programme is well suited to today's debate on recovery instruments — and now comes the fundamental issue for Minister of Finance Vanhanen: do you approve this government programme or not, and do you follow it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u176	Mr President! Firstly, I am surprised that Prime Minister Marin is not here to listen to this debate. This is the most important issue of the moment in the whole of the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u181	Mr President! It must be made clear now that, of course, the fundamental Finns are in favour of the rule of law as far as the judiciary, freedom of expression, the press are concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u190	Mr President! To the city centre, Finland is a country of opportunity, and we need all the areas in Finland — it is for the people of Finland to know. In the current situation of corona pandemic, we need a broad stimulus and also actions for the future. We need action precisely to deal with this difficult situation in the future. And when you have listened, for example, to the speeches of the Finns of Finland in this Chamber today, you can’t help but wonder that the Finns of Peru are not supporting the revival and support of Finnish work and entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u191	Mr President! Young people in particular have suffered from this economic crisis caused by the corona. Only by investing in education and training will Finland get on the road to growth, and that is the most important thing we can do for our young people. Young people will not be helped by a fall in income tax if there is no job. Young people will not be helped by a discount on petrol tax if there is no place to go. That is why research, development and innovation, education and continuous learning are at the heart of this programme. Half a billion euros will be invested in them. Places for starting universities will increase opportunities for young people to build their own future, increase opportunities for employment. These jobs for sustainable green growth are the jobs that last the time that create opportunities for our young people as conditions for a good life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u192	Ärade talman, Mr President! Recently, this weekend, Bloomberg published a list of countries that have handled the corona crisis best. Among 53 countries, Finland was the fifth — New Zealand has handled the corona crisis best. Good corona care involves building the future and believing in the future, in a sustainable way. We are already pioneers in many areas, such as the development of sustainable products and research. I myself would like to highlight the circular economy and the possibility of using agricultural waste, for example, in the production of gas. There must also be more small-scale biogas plants, so that locally produced biogas can be produced and used in transport — the so-called win-win situation — and even more distribution points are needed. I would like to ask Minister Lintilä: what kind of opportunities do these small-scale local biogas plants have to make a contribution through this package? It creates jobs, I think. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u193	Mr President! On page 51 of this report is a sub-heading entitled “Delivery of care and service debt and faster access to treatment”. First of all, as a single sentence:‘New forms Some may think that this point is now in the right place. In my opinion, it is definitely in the right place. We are talking about productivity. A healthy workforce, a skilled, healthy workforce that does not wait to be treated in long waiting lists, but quickly receives care and is able to function again, is an essential resource when a nation starts to increase productivity. Unfortunately, we have had a tradition in Finland... Two intermediate issues concerning long waiting lists were raised in 2002. I very much hope that we will not find ourselves again in a situation where we will have to ask the question of waiting lists, but we will leave now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u194	Mr President! We cannot accept that Finland is the EU's eternal net contributor. We cannot accept the development of a debt and tax union. We cannot accept the fact that the Marin government is making the situation worse all the time. We Finns want Finland to use all the available resources for Finland's benefit here. We do not want the money to be recycled and half left in southern Europe. This is not fair.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u197	Mr President! I would have liked to ask Prime Minister Marin again, but perhaps Mr Vanhanen, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance, will answer the question that has already been asked here by Mrs Wallinheimo. Finland has exactly the same opportunity as Hungary and Poland to take a hard stand and say that if the rule of law is watered down or removed from the recovery package and financial framework, then the Finnish Parliament, the Finnish Parliament, will not accept this whole. The government parties you chair have a majority in this Parliament, you can make that decision. Will the Finnish Government promote this in the negotiations? Are you prepared to put up a hard fight, because we do not get the rule of law watered down or removed from this whole. Then there is a great risk that it will not happen again. The rule of law is about democracy, it is about values that must also be prepared to pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u199	Mr President! Finland’s net contribution, which is probably the smallest when comparing net contributors, is based on our success and the situation in our economy is better. If the Finns of Finland want Finland not to be a net contributor, it means that Finland would also be in a worse situation and Finland would be a recipient [Lulu wrist interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u201	Mr President! The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Ohio, called for more work-related immigration, and two critical comments should be made on this. Firstly, increasing the number of people employed will not increase the employment rate if immigration increases the proportion or even more rapidly the number of unemployed or inactive persons, as it does.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u205	Mr President! I see the dialogue that has taken place with the various actors during the preparatory phase of the programme as very important. The preparatory work has included municipalities, regions, business life and the scientific community. In Häme, too, the Regional Union has made green growth a central part of the regional survival plan. It is now up to Parliament to take a position on how the financing of the recovery instrument should be used. We all certainly have our opinions on this, but now, if we ever have to be able to look beyond the parliamentary term and take decisions that not only contribute to a rapid recovery but also build a more cohesive society in the long term. In addition to the green shift, it is really important to keep everyone involved. Through the recovery instrument, we take care of the health of everyone in Finland and close the maintenance debt caused by the corona. The implementation of the social reform will continue despite the interest rate, and that is a good thing, because now, if we ever need to be more effective, more accessible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u206	President! In some parts of the Chamber, it seems to be very difficult to understand that today's euro is different from the euro that will be paid in 30 years' time. Let's take a metaphor for the maid who goes to study, takes out a loan of EUR 30000, studies in a profession that employs and grows this joint cake. In 30 years’ time, it will be a pretty easy bargain to pay 60,000 euros, as it has made hundreds of thousands of euros more than it would have made if it hadn’t been for study. That is what this is all about. And there is also the fact that some of the 60,000 will then be paid by the EU with its own resources, with taxes that the nation state is simply unable to collect but which are reasonable to balance the competitiveness of the EU and the rest of the world — precisely like carbon duty and digital tax. That is what this is all about. This is EUR 3 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u207	Mr President! As has been said here, the coalition sees it as an important, even marginal, condition that this principle of the rule of law in the EU and in those negotiations be implemented and not given up. In our culture, perhaps another thing related to the rule of law is respect for the Treaties and a treaty-based Europe, and that is what Finland has gone into. I was going to ask the Prime Minister this because this is a question of EUR 6 billion and probably the most important one for this parliamentary term, but he is not here now, so could the Minister of Finance answer: Is there some risk here when we have a little bit of lire about this treaty-based EU? We note that this is one-off and precise, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has obviously taught us all, but is this going to be a practice after all? My own view is that this crisis will not be unique, but will be followed in one form or another by another crisis, and if each time it is stated — it is well-meaning — while a package will be given,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u208	Mr President! In his opening speech, Mr Lulu Ranne gave me an important principle in assessing this recovery package: this should ensure that the interests of Finland and Finns are safeguarded. I remained surprised at his conclusion when he opposed this recovery fund because we all understand that Finland, as an export-driven country, needs the recovery of the Union as a whole and that is essential for our employment and economic growth, that is to say, the interests of Finns. I did find out the contradiction in this way of thinking why he had this contradiction, why he is opposed to the recovery fund and yet speaks of the interests of the Finns, because he, Mr President, also said in this last speech that he does not accept that Finland is a permanent net contributor to the EU. We will be able to make a big net contributor in a situation where the European Union is certainly not reviving and is going to have an economic downturn here and we are shrinking into our shells. We fall very quickly among net contributors as a result of economic recession, weak economic development and social development in general. Well, here it is, obviously. It's opening.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u209	All right, it's pretty full. — Let us take Mrs Ranne, when the name is mentioned, and then the Ministers' replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u210	Thank you, Your Honor. This debate is always trying to confuse the main issue. In other words, the government does not present an impact assessment of the recovery package for Finland, because it would reveal the flaws, the flaws that the Finns of Finland have highlighted in many speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u211	Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u212	Mr President! I already told you that I was allowed to take decisions at the time of the recovery of the financial crisis. Among other things, EUR 500 million was put into housing renovation grants. They provided a leverage of EUR 5 billion in correction grants in Finland. It was an effective operation, but let us be honest: It didn't make us more competitive. It did not increase our export opportunities to the world with the euro either. Now this recovery is about a different concept, in which it is primarily Finland's interest to have our economic territory as a whole in Europe grow and to get demand for our own exports. We were a net recipient — Mr Kiljunen remembers well when we had the post-depression phase — that is, then we were a net recipient, then we received money from the EU, but fortunately we have come out of it. Fortunately, our economic development has risen and we are currently in a better position than average.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u217	And Minister Leppä, one minute is enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u218	Mr President! Do you think I heard you right? Here the importance of agriculture was underestimated. Do you think those words were somehow so comforting? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u221	Minister Mikkonen, including one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u222	Mr President! It is not by chance that our plan is entitled ‘The Programme for Sustainable Growth in Finland’. We now want to take advantage of this recovery situation and build a sustainable, competitive Finland, and that of course means that we can make a transition to a low-carbon society. Studies from the world show that, compared with fossil recovery, jobs are created many times as much as investments in renewable low-carbon energy and the transition to a green economy. That is why what we want to do is to invest in renewable energy solutions, find new solutions, get rid of oil heating, biogas, which has already been mentioned here, other clean transport solutions and support for industrial electrification. By these means we will ensure that we move towards a low-carbon society and that our industries and our companies will be competitive in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u223	And Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u224	Mr President! In fact, rather than discussing whether or not this package is justified and whether we should go there, I think it would be more appropriate to discuss how we make full use of this. It is a question of all the Member States currently using this time — when the interest rate has been driven down in a certain way — to refine the fact that when the situation opens, we will be in a competitive condition. That is what we must strive for in Finland. These projects that are coming this way must be those that will increase our competitiveness, which will increase our productivity. And Congressman Ollikainen asked about this biogas side. The bioeconomy will be a very central part of this whole. In the green transition, it has a very big role to play and I do not believe that even the Peruvians are opposed to it. I understand that a lot of Finnish voters have a very strong connection to the bioeconomy, the forestry sector and so on. We will be looking for competitiveness, growth and productivity through this package, and at least in my own sector, there on the energy side, there is a very strong interest in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u225	Thank you. — And now we are going to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u226	Mr President! Thank you to the ministers for a bold look-out for the future. Finland’s sustainable growth programme aims to export and reform our country’s economy towards the post-column period. We'll look over the corona. I would like to draw attention to the role of education, research and innovation and the regions as a source of growth. Finland's productivity performance has been slightly subdued in the past decade. We need new winds in the development of know-how and industrial structures. The role of higher education institutions in international competition is constantly growing. In addition, the restructuring of the economy is further accelerated by the pandemic, so changing the profession is inevitable for more and more of us. Nevertheless, the rise in educational attainment and the development of skills are threatening to stop. Companies are beginning to have major problems finding skilled labour across Finland. On the other hand, Finland’s growth potential is not only about industry but also about services. For example, tourism, experience and creative economies are a whole that requires development and export promotion. Have the potential of the provinces been sufficiently exploited? The EU Recovery Package should be used to exploit this potential. The construction of fibre optics in rural and urban areas opens up opportunities for remote work in places independent of location. The Internet can't be broken. It's supposed to work in every cabin. This opens the way for the development of teleworking tourism. Finland has a unique opportunity to offer the world’s millions of city experts a safe and functional working environment in the middle of pure Finnish nature by local food. Development of this kind of teleworking tourism. All data also show that higher education-related jobs will be highlighted in the future. Work is created in areas where higher education is needed. It is therefore necessary to invest in continuous learning and the reform of the educational provision of the working-age population. It is also necessary to increase the number of people with higher education. There have been openings, but more are needed. Develop planned measures to raise skills levels, ensure higher education skills in key areas and transform existing skills to meet new needs in working life. With these measures, we support the renewal of businesses and society and enable vital growth through the diversification of the business structure. These are investments in long-term growth potential. At the same time, we must invest in sustainable development, Finnish agriculture and bioeconomy. Let's do a lifespan leap together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u227	Mr President! No one, individuals, countries or continents, can survive crises such as the Koronapandemia alone. The European Union has decided on a major joint recovery instrument to tackle this crisis together. In the midst of the triple crisis, it is not enough to clear the way out of the corona crisis; the same measures must promote the exit from the fossil economy and prevent the economic downturn. The EU Recovery Facility offers up to $3 billion in space to accelerate the green transition. Whether we are doing recovery on the terms of the past or of the future must be chosen. Mr President! As stated in the report, the objective of the Sustainable Growth Programme is to promote renewal and productivity. The recovery tool is a huge investment in the more sustainable future of Finnish society. In line with the Government's policy, at least half of the recovery instrument will be used to combat climate change without forgetting the tracks. The Government of Sustainable Development also follows its line in the midst of the crisis. Finland has set its own criteria for projects selected for the programme, many of which come directly from EU requirements. For example, they must be in line with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and take into account the impact on equality and equality. Mr President! Social welfare reform is a major structural change for employees and organisations, which are already hard on their feet due to the interest rate. The implementation of the transition phase of the reform should therefore be invested as part of the Sustainable Growth Programme. The better we can get the social welfare reform into the centers and the everyday life of hospitals, the better we can dismantle the treatment queues and prepare for the next situation that requires preparation and preparedness. As we know, the need for mental health services has also increased strongly during the corona crisis and treatment queues have also increased there. Without mental health, there is no other health. If we now fail to deal with people struggling with their mental health, we face a huge human debt of correction. Therefore, the Recovery Facility should target funding for low-threshold mental health services, short-term therapy and actions leading towards a therapeutic guarantee. Finland and Europe either rise with knowledge or fall short of it. It is therefore important that research, development and innovation, education and continuous learning are made the top priorities of the programme. RDI efforts not only support the green transition but also increase the starting points for higher education institutions and thus support young people's access to their desired careers. The integration of young people into the labour market will be accelerated by strengthening the Ohjaamo services and supporting the independence of the after-care customers. These investments in young people are crucial, because young people have our future. Mr President! The Sustainable Growth Programme helps people and businesses to overcome the triple crisis and creates faith in the future. However, it is here and now that the best employment and economic policy is to prevent the spread of the virus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u228	Congressman Hoskonen. Is there a...? Oh, there, in the dead corner. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u229	Mr President! I was hiding, but not from the cause. — Finland certainly needs resuscitation, but it is only a question of how it is to be resuscitated. When this package of European aid was adopted on 21 July in Brussels, the French President, Mr Macron, said that we have created a permanent debt-taking mechanism in Europe — a permanent debt-taking mechanism in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u248	Mr President! Finland’s sustainable growth programme is EUR 2.3 billion, funded by the EU’s recovery instrument. In this Chamber, too, the use of the recovery instrument has been called into question in the recovery efforts of the Member States of the European Union to rise from the financial distress caused by the interest rate. But the recovery of the EU as a whole is also in Finland's interest. For a small, export-driven country such as Finland, the functioning of the European internal market is of paramount importance. Mr President! This EUR 2.3 billion package is a unique opportunity for us to make a major turnaround towards a more sustainable Finland and Europe. We Greens are in favour of a fair change, that is, reducing emissions, poverty and inequality at the same time. At the same time, this programme will enable us to revitalise the corona-ridden economy and speed up the fair transition towards a carbon-neutral, naturally rich and caring Finland for its inhabitants. With this programme, we invest half a billion euros to build up our skills and help people cope with the interest rate. At least half of the money is spent on combating the climate crisis and making a green transition. An important starting point is that no euro goes into projects that are harmful to the climate or the environment. The aim of the Greens is that the EU's recovery funds should be fully spent on projects contributing to sustainable development under Agenda 2030. This has been included in the report. Natural solutions supporting the green digital transition aim to mitigate and adapt to climate change. In addition, the aim is to halt the loss of biodiversity and to achieve good water status. It is also important that the effects on equality and equality are taken into account in the recovery measures. It is essential that priority should be given not only to positive environmental impacts but also to the impact on employment, competitiveness and the sustainability of public finances. These are not opposites to each other; rather, they support one another. In addition to industrial reform, we must also support the creative sectors, tourism and culture, which have suffered and continue to suffer from the corona. These sectors are important employers and create well-being in our society. Mr President! We now have a place of EUR 1 billion to implement a change in the energy system that will disengage us from fossil fuels. This means non-combustible heating systems and the production and storage of clean energy. The widespread use of biomass for the production of electricity and heat is not a sustainable option. For this change, we need industrial renewal and investment. The various industries have already made their own carbon neutrality road maps, and it is worth making smart use of this recovery package to implement them. The aim must be not only to reduce climate emissions to a large extent, but also to improve energy efficiency, but also to create a new export-driven business, and to create new jobs and new entrepreneurship. In the circular economy, too, there is a huge potential for a significant increase in the re-use and maintenance of materials and new work. Mr President! A sustainable future requires investment in education and research and innovation. Increasing competence is Finland’s route back to the path of growth. We need more places for our young people to start in higher education. It is therefore important that education, continuous learning and investment in research, development and innovation are one of the priorities of this programme. It is also very important to boost young people's access to the labour market by improving Ohjaamo services and supporting the adultisation of after-care customers. We must now strengthen young people's faith in the future. Mr President! Even before the corona, we had a major challenge with growing mental health problems and access to treatment. The interest rate has only made things worse. The mental health care debt must be discharged without delay. Low-threshold mental health services and a therapeutic guarantee would provide a much-needed solution. The Greens have therefore proposed funding these services as part of Finland’s sustainable growth programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u249	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u250	We will now resume the debate on item 2 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u251	Mr President! Climate neutrality in Europe will be sought by 2050. Finland’s goal is to be carbon neutral in 2035. Does this mean that the government will give other countries a 15-year competitive advantage during which Finland pays to continue to pollute others? The Government’s climate targets are over-estimated, and some decisions have consequences that may not have been considered by the government. Inspired by Mr Hoskosen, I am now illustrating the matter through peat production. When we talk about sustainable growth, peat production plays an important role. The Government is seeking to halve peat burning by 2030. However, the decisions taken in the budget debate have already achieved this objective in the past. Bioenergy estimates that peat combustion has decreased by 75% by 2025... [8 seconds break in record]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u258	Congressman Junnila, please. — Mask, representative Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u259	Mr President! Even if the financing of the Sustainable Growth Programme comes from the EU, the green future cannot be financed forever by debt money. The fight against climate change and the pursuit of carbon neutrality mentioned in the Sustainable Growth Programme rests largely on economic and production reform, the transformation of energy production and digitalisation. It is good to remember that Finland receives its money from exports, however. With debt money, we will pay billions to the recovery package, from which we will get less back, and we will use it to revive and invest when, without the recovery package, we would have more money at our disposal. It is also good to remember that even though we have been spared the massive waves of company bankruptcy yet, this is largely due to an exception in which the debtor is not expected to be insolvent on the grounds that he was unable to pay the debts within a week from the call for payment of the debts. This change will be in force until the end of January, and fortunately the government is changing this so that it will continue right up until the end of September. In any case, jobs will disappear and the green transition of the recovery instrument will not be able to fill them in as a whole. The Sustainable Growth Programme states that innovation and growth in production potential require investment and that private investment can be promoted by taking care of an attractive investment environment. In the past, we received a preview of Kaipola's paper mill's closure notice. Yesterday we received a new example of how attractive Finland is for investment when Neste announced that it would close the Naantali refinery to save some tens of millions of euros. At the same time, there has been no word from Minister of Corporate Governance Tuppurainen. In fact, it had to be studied correctly: in the last two weeks, Minister Tuppurainen has once taken a position on the subject of Neste. On 14 November, the Minister expressed concern at the fact that the fees of Neste's board members have fallen behind the other companies, and he has sent a letter to the effect that an increase in the remuneration of the board members would be considered. Think of it — this kind of corporate governance in a situation where Neste, by far the largest owner of which is still the state, puts the whistles in the bag and the workers out. I can't believe this is the way things are done with your left hand. As regards investments, at the beginning of November Neste announced that it would purchase a refinery in the Netherlands at a price of EUR 258 million. Last year Neste invested EUR 1.4 billion in the Singapore refinery. So investments are being made. In addition to this, when Neste announced that it would start negotiations — on 14 September — on the following day, the 15th, they sold their stake in Nynas AB, a company that produces high-quality bitumen, for example, for the use of the Naantali and Porvoo refinery. In that respect, too, this seems rather systematic. The closure of the Naantali refinery means almost a thousand unemployed, considering the subcontracting chain. Will these people find a new job in the green transition that has been called for here today? Minister Lintilä, who was here earlier, will certainly understand the situation and we expect much from him — and now that he is not here to hear it, we are actually expecting a little more. I believe that, if he so wishes, he will be able to achieve a positive result to the extent that the workers and the city of Naantali will be able to live by it. However, I would have expected Mr Tuppurainen to do something. Unfortunately, it now seems that, in addition to security of change, the workers have been left to their own devices. Such an example is given by Neste’s by far the largest owner, the State and its Minister for Ownership Steering. Mr President, I am very sorry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u260	Mr President! This package of Finland's sustainable growth programme, which we are discussing today, has been an exceptionally big issue. It is also a big deal because it is linked to this European Union recovery programme. It is huge in scale, but it is also significant in content. This is about Europe working together to overcome the economic consequences of the corona virus, but not just by supporting old structures, but by genuinely using this huge recovery programme to create a new one that will strengthen long-term sustainable economic growth, sustainable development and competitiveness throughout the European Union. As we have already pointed out in this debate on a number of occasions, we are talking about the concept of ‘green shift’ to combat climate change,promoting digitalisation,new types oftechnologies which can, in the economic sense, make Europe a strong player on the world map,and Finlandcan then benefit fromthisrenewal. I have been a little surprised at this debate that it has been as if there has been a controversy in the tone of the debate, above all on the part of the Finns of Peru, when they have questioned this recovery fund and its recovery programme as a whole and it is based on the idea of promoting the interests of Finns, as it were. All — economists, political actors, social analysts — can simply say that when Finland, as an open, heavy market economy, is so heavily dependent on exports because the size of our country is small, it is advantageous for the economy, the common labour market, the internal market in which we operate, to be strong and functioning and competitive, and in which case it will also benefit Finns, a little like Finland’s recovery benefits our individual municipalities and cities. So we're all in on this. This logic, when you're left to think about... I think I said a little less in that earlier that when the Finns talk about their opposition to this extensive recovery package, and at the same time they would also like Finland to move from being a net contributor to being a net contributor, that it cannot be an eternal net contributor within the framework of the Union, they will of course have a connection with each other: if it were to happen to us in such a way that the recovery programme would fall on the rocks, it would mean exceptionally difficult economic times in Finland. It has the consequence very quickly that Finland will be able to get out of it as a net contributor, as a net recipient. If this is the logic that the True Finns are advocating, it obviously is the content there, then it must be shown from every angle that it is
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u261	Mr President! This recovery package is not about Finland receiving money, but about Finland paying. Finland will pay EUR 6.6 billion and receive EUR 3.2 billion of emergency funding back, and this is the issue that raises questions. It feels like they're gonna give you what you're supposed to think, and then... - I'm sorry, the voice goes. — It sounds like we are giving, but then we are getting a little bit too, which is a little bit like a silly carpeting in this case. Mr President! This debate raised the issue of social and health care and, in particular, the possibility that the stimulus money could then be used to cover this maintenance debt accumulated during the interest rate period. This is a very important issue, but one very important point remains unspeakable in the debate, and that is the situation of the carers, not only in Finland, but in Europe as a whole and in the world, so it is time to look at the nurse who, in the middle of the corona, is now taking care of those people. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy has — and this is where I read in the media — made such an application to invite and oblige tens of thousands of health workers and those who have been trained and trained in the various fields, i.e., if the Emergency Act were to come, then staff could be required to come to work. It includes doctors, dentists, nurses, nurses, laboratory nurses, physiotherapists, X - ray nurses, pharmacists, and local nurses. So would it be time to start talking about the possibility of using the CPR money for nurses' coronals? I would see that we will have a really big problem where we will find these nurses. Not only have the nurses themselves fallen ill, they are also at risk of their own lives working there to treat patients, sick patients — not only corona patients, but also everyone else, because people are sick and health care is running there day after day — so that it is time to reward them in some way? I would see that, and yes, I feel that the Finnish Parliament Group is the one from which these votes have come in relation to the situation of nurses. We have made a noise here that it is not the nurse who does her job there, but the nurse who is able to do her job gets the reward and incentive she deserves for her work, too, and dares to go there to the site. The shortage of nurses will be here if this crisis persists. Many have also voted with their feet and left the industry, because it is frightening at the moment. Mr President! This Agenda 2030 has also been raised here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u262	Ärade Herr Talman! Återhämtningsfonden är viktig för att hålla ehpep Europa och den Europeiska unionen i en tid då internationalellt samarbet sätts på prov. Below welnder har drabbats hårt av coronakrisen, men vis har strabbats hårdare än andra. Det är viktigt att säkerstalla att ingen går under på grund av krisen effectsom det i så fall kandra med sig mycket större värden och också värderingar. Finland är ett exportberoende land. Vi kan inte finansiera vår valfärd utan vår export. Vi har världsledande företag inom fartygsmotorer, hissar, hamnutrustning, lyftkranar, telecommunication, propulsions system, gruvmaskineri och massor av andra områden. Dessa är helt beroende av vår export. Dessa bolags försäljning i Finland handlar ofta bara om estaka procentenheter av ders totala omsättning. Över nio tiondelar av deras business kommer oftast från andra platser i världen. Trots det är bolagen registrerade i Finland, de betalar samfundsskatt till Finland, har sin forskning och innovation bull. Dessa företag och alla de hundratusentals arbetsplatser som skapas av dem och deras underleverantörer behöver ha en kärld som är öppen för business och där det finns klara spelregler. Finland är egentligen för litet för dessa företag, men de kan ha Finland som bass effectsom Finland är en del av den Europeiska unionen och genom att de får ta del av den inre marknaden. Det auri gäller också vivi åländska företag. Vi har medicinska företag, som bland give herr talman har vart och besökt, vars produkter till 99 percent går på export, inte bara från Åland utan från hela Finland. 99 percent av produkterna som produceras ai i Finland av finländska och åländska heider går alltså på export. Det är någonting som vi kan vara över, men det är något som vi inte kan ta för givet. 99 percent av deras marknad skulle försvinna om deras exportmöjligheter inte kunde tryggas. Om vi inte har en inre marknad i Europa som utgör 60 percent av finländska företags export äventyrar vi deras företagsverksamhetsmöjligheter. Därför måste vi slå vakt om den inre marknaden och hålla skinp Europa. Det är också värt att betala för, och det betalar sig tillbaka, för vi får mycket mer tillbaka per år i ekonomisk activitet och arbetsplatser än den medlemsavgift till EU som vi årligen betalar. Ärade Herr Talman! Protectionismen växer i världen, och det finns plasser som skulle önska att Europa och EU skulle misslyckas och att den inre marknaden skulle falla sönder. Det skulle också försvaga Finlands företag och Finland. Det är inte i vårt interest. Av den anledningen är det viktigt att den är återhämtingsfonden skapas av EU, så att ingen anna i världen skapar den för vivia av Europas länder och på såvis lyckas splittra Europa. Av den anledningen är det motiveraat att Finland är netbetalare till den turvaåterhämtningsfonden. Jag — och jag tror att alla arv i salen — Hade önskat att vi inte hade en situation där coronaviruset slår sönder vår ekonomi och där vi behöver överväga den arv nitrogens åtgärder, men vi kan inte påverka den saken. Vi måste bara agera utifran de förutsättningar som finns, och det skulle vara oansvarigt att inte vara med. Det skulle också reserve att skjuta oss själva i foten. Med det sagt är det viktigt att betona att den ox nitrogens stödpaket är en engångssatsning. Det är enorma belopp vi talar om, aven om det är haterbart för Finland, men det skulle inte vara haterbart om det skulle bli regelbundet återkommande. Av den anledningen är det också viktigt att hela Europa uppskattar den korsätsen som EU lyckats skapa tillsammans på EU-nivå och där viviländer är betydande netbetalare. Den ausifonden är av exceptionell natur, men det är också en exceptionell kris som kräver exceptionella åtgärder. De länder som är net mottagare av hjälpen behöver därför också vara tacksamma för det stöd man får. Jag är glad att vi från Finland kan vaa med och ge den hjälpen, också för vårt gemensamma bästa, men det är viktigt att man upppskattar det och överallt i Europa förstår att detta inte är en enkel oskiffring för alla medlemsländer att göra ettersom alla medlemsländer kämpar med arbetslöshet och enorma effekter av coronapandemin. Men vi gör detta för att slå vakt om Europas framtid och att den ska vara ljus. Ärade Herr Talman! European Union av värderingar, inte en bankautomat. Vissa länder måste därför sluta behandla EU som en penningsäck samtidigt som man monterar ner domstolars Oberoende, inskränker medias frihet och inskränkränker medborgares grundrätttigheter. Då fonden behandlas samtidigt som långtidsbudgeten är det därför viktigt att vi fortsätter trycka på hårt för att rättsstatsprincipen måste vara ett villkor för att få EU-medel. Här vill jag tacka regeringen för att man har försvara rättsstatsprincipen och uppnått vinster i förhandlingarna. EU är en gemenskap som bygger på demokratiska värderingar, och då måste vi också stärka de verktyg vi har för att trygga rättsstatsprincipen i EU-länderna också effect att medlemsländerna har blivit medlemmar, inte bara i anslutningskriterina. — Tack.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u263	Mr President! A few more comments on this sustainable growth programme in Finland. In my previous speech, I have basically said what I think about this, but a few more things to be clarified. First of all, the fact that, now that we have been marketed here recently for the good and good functioning of this recovery fund, I have been very suspicious of it all along, and that big doubt left last summer. I was very surprised when the government negotiated this package in the EU at the time. It was completed on July 21st. Then Parliament should have been convened immediately to decide on this matter. As a method, this is quite strange, indeed frightening, that the Parliament that decides on this issue has still not been able to vote on what is being done here. At every other part-session, we have very heartbreaking speeches here about the importance of parliamentaryism and the functioning of democracy. Parliament is deciding on perhaps the most important issue in the history of Finland's independence, and not even one has yet been voted on. So this is a question of Finland's economic independence, I'm sure. Now, if we allow the European Union to have the right to tax, the possibility that we will be their guarantors for their huge loans — as I said, the amount of money that is going on in the financial world, that huge amount of money, is at least ten times greater than the real economy — will never be able to fill this gap, never with taxpayers’ money. It is so huge that Finland’s national wealth is not enough for 1 per cent of what is going on there. This bond hysteria has made it so much bit money. If those gaps are then covered by tax markets and tax banks, it will not succeed, it will be a doomed attempt. And I think that pushing taxpayers' money there is very, very wrong. Of the money that employees earn on their salary, or an entrepreneur on their corporate income or pensioner's pension, the future tax revenue must be used for the benefit of Finns. This speculation, which starts to support the huge damage caused by the investment adventures of the top banks, is so repulsive to me that I cannot accept it at all. And I came to say once again that this is very degrading to Parliament's authority, that this House will agree to such a procedure. Now to this fair transition fund. And when we talk about peat, and here we have a couple of speeches ahead of us, we strongly believe that it is a blow, that is what it is. Congressman Harjanne was active in it to stop the peat, but what's going to happen? Nothing. We have wet winters. We all know that Finland’s winters will be rainy, constantly raining and wet. The energy tree that many people imagine getting out of the forest today is so wet it won't burn. Should we put light fuel oil in it or put coal in it? What's a Master's Engineer Harjanne doing? He's a top energy expert. Living with such a wish and piety is almost the same as promising a little boy that I will buy a car for Christmas, and then I will not. I am so angry about this that these false hopes, which have no real basis, are being cultivated here and then promised that something will be replaced by the JTF Fund. I'm sure there won't be a penny. I think the 422 million is the total amount of the JTF fund. If there's a replacement for the turf contractors, it's some kind of part of the class. I got a call from a turf contractor. He has a EUR 4.5 million fortune that loses its value. Tell us, Mr Green League representative, what you are replacing it for. It's all going. It is now time to stop talking about replacing the JTF fund. Yes, a Member of Parliament must have responsibility for the future of Finland, and you cannot talk nonsense here. I am very sorry to see this in the old days. If one day you would at least acknowledge the facts, but that too seems to be difficult when you say that innovative forms are being heated up. What in God's name do we heat up when we don't have what to smoke? Right now, they're burning log wood in the pots. Is that what you think, ladies and gentlemen of the Finnish Parliament, correct? It is precisely the government that has found it wrong; it must not be done. This is a complete fishing for voices, the extreme edge of populism, for which I am extremely angry — not in any negative sense, but in a huge amount of annoyance. And then we are talking about the future of Europe, about means that do not exist, and the whole system is based on huge debt. It was now necessary to create this recovery package to save France, and the debt-taking process will continue. Such an economic policy leads to a very escalating surface in Finland, and it is absolutely unacceptable to go there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u264	Thank you, and remember the mask when you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u265	Mr President! I will come back to the peat that Mr Hoskonen will deal with a little later, but at the beginning I will say that, in fact, one of the reasons why wet and rainy winters exist more today is because we have added far too much carbon to the atmosphere. So there's a lot of long processes and path addictions that need to be cut off. I think we actually have the same type of analysis that this wood biomass is not exactly enough to replace all peat. This sustainable growth programme in Finland describes how the government plans to use the financing of the EU recovery package here. Its reforms and investments are designed to accelerate the fight against climate change, improve productivity and strengthen the growth potential of the economy, and to accelerate the necessary structural changes in order to raise employment rates and to provide a sustainable basis for production and consumption. So what we are doing here is doing exactly what we need to do: to revive the economy weakened by the corona virus while at the same time speeding up the inevitable ecological reconstruction and reforming economic structures. This has also been put forward by experts and considered necessary and justified. The most important of the priorities of the Sustainable Growth Programme is the green transition in support of structural change. In the end, only an ecologically sustainable economy can be a sustainable economy as a whole. It is therefore great and important that about half of the funding for the programme is being spent on this green transition, but, in order to make sense, it is of course important that the other half does not finance things that conflict with a sustainable transition. One important target here is the production of district heat. Now district heat is produced mainly by burning, and more than half of the combustion is basically unsustainable fossil energy and peat. Indeed, sustainable forest biomass is not enough to replace all of this, and expanding use of wood bioenergy threatens carbon sink stocks, forest nature in Finland and the world, and the development of a bioeconomy towards a higher level of processing. Addressing this problem requires public funding. Non-incineration and other sustainable alternatives are largely known: different heat pumps and storages, including geothermal heat from different depths, waste heat, direct electric heating, boilers, synthetic fuels and nuclear district heat. All of these should be promoted. The challenge is to scale these technologies quickly enough, and this programme is a good tool for that. Of course, alongside this support, we must ensure that regulation and market guidance are in place for alternatives to incineration. The growing share of electricity in heat production also underlines the need for sufficient emission-free electricity production. Mr President! This report is an important place to discuss the selection of the best recovery targets and the development of the sustainability of the Finnish economy. At the same time, these programmes are now being prepared throughout the EU, so it is also a good time to discuss the European guidelines for recovery policy. As has been said, a coordinated recovery at EU level is very justified and necessary, and the European Commission too has rightly stressed the importance of ecological sustainability in recovery. However, the EU's energy and climate policy continues to be partly distorted by its attitude towards different forms of energy, especially nuclear power, which can then be seen, for example, in the JTF instrument and in the so-called taxonomy of sustainable financing. This was last raised today by Riku Huttunen, Head of Sector for Energy at the Ministry of Energy. I very strongly hope that the government will strongly pursue a science-based and technology-neutral approach within the Union and its energy and climate policy. The protection of emissions and biodiversity must be at the heart of this. Mr President! Overall, this sustainable growth programme is welcome, necessary, justified and well prepared. Of course, it is of crucial importance that the practical projects financed under this framework are selected in a smart way. It is justifiable to be concerned about public debt in itself, but it is very hollow if, at the same time, we do not recognise the significant, much more dangerous and serious climate and ecological debt that we are building up for future generations. Climate and nature do not expect, and such a one-off resuscitation injection is necessary to target the right and sustainable future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u266	Mr President! Just a few more words about this recovery package. I would like to thank Mr Hosko for his very good speech just now. The recovery package is not about Finland getting money from the EU. It is an estimated EUR 6.6 billion in Finland's contribution to the recovery fund and can receive EUR 3.2 billion in emergency funding. Thus, Finland will pay EUR 3.4 billion to revitalise the economy of other Member States and will receive a smaller share in the recovery of its own economy. In addition to all this so-called good deal, as a cherry on top of a cake, the money returned to Finland's own use is earmarked so that Finland cannot freely decide how to use it. And then a few more words. Secondly, the report shows that there is uncertainty about the maximum amount of recovery and recovery aid. In some places the fork is up to half the amount. Quickly calculated, the difference between the lowest and the highest amounts is in the order of billions. Good government, I would like to inquire, and I will probably ask about this later, has the figure of 3.2 billion been reported, according to which Finland can receive the highest theoretical amount? What guarantees do you have for Finnish taxpayers that even this sum will come true? Could you sometimes tell us how much of Finland's money will be recovered in the worst possible situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u267	Irade the Talman! Det är viktigt att vi använder pengarna i den överlevnadsfråga för vårt klimat och för att vi ska henga med i utvecklingen. Det är också sådant som betalar sig tillbaka på sikt. Det är också investoringar som, om de utformas på rätt jätt, kan stärka både Finland och finska företag att vara en del i ett startare Europa. Därför måste fondens pengar användas till investoringar för omställning och resiliens, inte för consumtion. Ärade Herr Talman! Åland och finansministeriet har haft en mycket konstruktiv kontakt och snabbt hitt bra lösningar så att Åland får sin andel av fondens stöd i relation till vår befolkningsstorlek, nämligen 0,54 percent, Vilket betyder irka 13 million euro av den äråterhämningsfonden. Det är viktiga pengar för Åland som har strabbats oerhört hårt på grund av coronapandemin som har slagit alldeles särskilt mot sjöfart, tourism och service som är viktiga industrier på Åland. Åland kommer också uppgöra ett egot program för hur pengarna ska användas, Vilket är mycket bra och underlättar handläggningen både på Åland och för helheten. Jag vill tacka regeringen och framför allt finansministeriet och tjänstemännen där för den constructiva kontakten med Åland som är ett föredöme för hur den ox nitrogens frågor ska diskuteras med Åland. Irade the Talman! Jag vill också lyfta på hatten överlag för regeringens goda förhandlingsresultat gällande hela återhämtningsfonden. Även om Finland inte formellt hörde till Gruppen lännder där Danmark, Nederlandnderna, Sverige och Österrike var pådrivande, var det fint att se statsministern delta i öten med de länderna. Jag upplever att Finland gjort en avgörande insats för att säkerstalla att man hitt en balans mellan hela EU:s intressen och den så kallade sparsamma phyran. Det gjorde också att andelen rena bidrag kunde minskas med över 100 million euro och låneandlen i stället blir större, helt i enlighet med de riktlinjerna som ricksdage önskade och ville att regeringen skulle driva på i Brussels. Samtidigt lyckades vi också få in de starta skrivningarna om rättsstatsprincipen i långtidsbudgeten, vilket är en oerhört stor framgång. Det tror jag på sikt är en existens- och överlevnadsfråga för EU. EU är inget utan democracy, frihet och grundläggande rättigheter, våra värderingar. Vi måste därför slå vakt om rättstatsprincipen, men det har tidigare variant svårt att hit just de instrumenten för de sakerna är tidigare. Nu har det lyckats och det måste vi hålla fast vid. Vi kan därför inte ge effecter till Polen och till Ungern för deras utpressing i den är frågan på något sätt. De länderna är bara net mottagare. Att förbinda sig till grundläggande rättigheter som man redan förbundit sig till i anslutningen till EU kan inte vara för mycket begärt för att kunna få ta del av EU-medel, och det undergräver inte på något sätt de länndernas eller något you give lands sovereigntet. Det är frivilligt att ansöka om medlemskap och att vara medlem i EU. Därför måste EU också hålla fast vid de democracy värderingarna. Dem får vi aldrig compromise med.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u268	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u269	Mr President! Strong electronic identification plays a key role when talking about a digitalising society. In Finland, BICs and mobile certification of telecommunications operators are among the most common tools for strong electronic identification. These means of identification enable citizens to demonstrate their identity safely when using electronic services. In addition, e-services can use e-identification to identify their customers. This powerful electronic means of identification is preceded by the first identification of the person: we are talking about first recognition. First, the first identification can take place at a physical point of contact or second, it can be made possible based on the initial identification data generated in connection with the issuing of an existing identification medium. This will make it possible to obtain a new identification tool in full electronic form. In practice, this means, for example, that the consumer can obtain an electronic mobile certificate using banking credentials. Long-term work has been carried out in Finland to develop strong electronic identification legislation and services. All the measures taken have been aimed at ensuring that strong electronic identification is reliable, easy and affordable. For a long time, high pricing for the transmission of initial identification data between service providers slowed down the acquisition of new identification tools from the consumer’s point of view. Therefore, a maximum price was set for service providers for the transmission of initial identification information to other service providers for a limited period. Positive results have been achieved since then, but progress is still ongoing. The Government has submitted a proposal proposing that the maximum price set for service providers for the transmission of initial identification data to each other should remain valid for a further two years. In addition, a new task is proposed for the Agency to collect and provide statistical information on the market and supply of this strong electronic identification. This will allow better monitoring of the impact of regulation and support the overall steering of eID and the development of legislation. The proposals will promote the opportunities offered by the eID service to provide tools for users. This will increase the availability of strong eID for both consumers and e-services. Recent developments in data protection and information security have been a very regrettable but concrete indication that e-services must necessarily be reliable and secure for all parties involved. Increasing the use of strong electronic identification is one of the ways in which the security of e-services and online information can be promoted. Mr President! I hope that the proposal will receive a positive response so that we can implement these important changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u270	Mr President! This is about this kind of bill, which sounds a little heavy-handed in relation to the digital society, the information society, which was very well presented by the Minister of Transport and Communications Harakka. The proposal proposes that the law on strong electronic identification and trust services be amended so as to extend the price regulation of the chain of initial identification of electronic identification by two years until the end of 2023, and this maximum price for this first contact would still be 3 cents. And this first recognition, which may be a little foreign to me, at least before I familiarized myself with this bill, was a little foreign to me, means a reliable identification of identity when a person is first granted a strong electronic identification tool such as banking credentials. President! It is extremely important that every person in Finland has access to a powerful identification tool. It could almost be said that this is a fundamental digital right. During the last parliamentary term, good work was done on the fact that now all people have access to online banking credentials. In the past, it was not one of the so-called basic banking services that every financial institution should secure, but was considered extra. And then the person who had debt problems, for example, had to go to the bank’s counter there and that too was perhaps a certain additional lump in his own daily life. It is very important that these strong eID tools are put in place and it is a good idea to increase this use in order to maintain data security. It is a good proposal, and I think that the Committee on Transport and Communications will then, in due course, work on this, and it may be that this is one of the things that we do not need to twist so much around here. But now that there are representative ministers, the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Interior, I would like to ask about the fact that all Finns have been shocked by this breach of the information at the House. This is the case, let us say now, a national tragedy or a national disaster. I claim that almost every Finn at least knows someone whose data has been leaked there and who has been blackmailed in this way and whose situation has been so severely exploited in a truly immoral, criminal and also very cruel manner. I know, of course, that this is in the police investigation — the pre-trial investigation is secret until it goes to the prosecutor and then to the independent court — but I would now like to hear from the ministers what the government has done now because of this incident at the Response Centre and how it is going to help these victims and, above all, to prevent such massive thefts of information from taking place again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u271	Mr President! This development of strong electronic identification is certainly in order. However, I would like to point out to the Minister two duubios or two points which I am sure will also be important in this context. First of all, this digitalisation does not apply to all Finns. We have a whole group of people outside these systems. They are Finnish citizens, and their life management has deteriorated dramatically, as this digitalisation is now beating through even in connection with this electronic identification. I'm just giving you Statistics Finland's statistics on the current situation: Seventy-seven per cent of citizens over 75 do not have a computer, a computer of their own. It's about 300,000 citizens. And even without a mobile phone, 16 per cent of citizens over 75 years of age are citizens. So if we go down the road of identifying these mobile phones or other electronic devices — we have a whole group of people, we are talking about tens of thousands of people, including without a mobile phone, or 50,000 — then this must certainly be taken into account in one way or another. The second point I am asking is that, since I am not entirely sure that I have not read the reasons for this proposal, this identification is now being done in the first instance, as a rule, through our banking credentials. This is the dilemma that we identify ourselves with a system in which as a counterparty we must have a banking relationship, we must have a banking relationship with a private operator, even if, if necessary, we have to identify ourselves in relation to the exercise of public authority, whether it is Kela or the tax authority, for example. At what point will we move to a system in which the whole system of strong identification — will it take place in this context, now? — in fact, it becomes public administration in such a way that it does not require you to be associated with a private, commercially viable entity? You must have some kind of contractual relationship, a relationship with that commercial operator, so that you can be a full member of public society, including in relation to identification.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u272	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the law on strong electronic identification. Mr President! I would like to ask you, Minister, when will Finland start talking about the digital divide, about the gap where so many people fall in Finland? A study has been carried out that more than half of Finns aged 65 do not know how to use technology, all the properties of technology. When, among other things, the expression used in these speeches is that the use of strong e-services in Finland should increase and that every Finnish person should have a strong identification tool, for example online banking credentials, how do the current government and today's Finland respond to those elderly people who fight and wonder how they can cope in the digital world, for example, with their banking business? Of course, here is the fact that if an elderly person cannot manage his own banking affairs electronically, he should have a guardian and should have such a mandate with the bank, among other things. In Finland, how is it ensured and ensured that all people stay on board? In particular, this digital divide has now touched very, very many elderly people during the corona crisis. We have a situation where home visits, such as care for the elderly, home care, have had to be cancelled and, so to speak, made at a distance, i.e. the visits have been completely different. And certainly this crisis has also led to the creation of a huge digital leap and the development of electronic services, and more and more of them are operating from there through their own home to this world, when you cannot go much further when you have to fear the corona. Then how are these elderly people doing there? This is a very wide-ranging question, and I am sure this bill will not take a stand on these matters, but as a meal to the Minister, I would like to ask and wish that we also talk about the digital divide in Finland. Of course, there are also those who may have difficulty understanding the language or there is some dyslexia that may not necessarily be able to work, that in the elderly, this fall into the digital shaft touches the older ones. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u273	Mr. Speaker! We are discussing this matter of remote verification and electronic verification, but I think it has expanded into a very good debate on the information society, an information society debate. Representative Juvonen raised a very important issue, this digital divide. That's the kind of good, fine, striking word I have to thank you for. Perhaps you could talk about such digital equality or digital equality. This is a very important thing, and it is nice to hear about this how it is seen, because it is so that if a person falls outside of these bullocks, then this life is a little difficult. But I also want, President, to take a rather positive view of this, and perhaps this is how I appreciate the speeches made by Mr Kiljune and Mr Juvose, both of them. That was the point, but I also want to be a little more positive. Yes, I have noticed that there are really many older people who adopt in a tremendous way if they have opportunities, afford, and even if they get a course, they really quickly adopt the use of smart devices. I know the kind of nineties who do things on iPads or tablet computers, do things and watch videos, news, read things that are interesting to themselves. So I also think that we should not see that the elderly are victims in a way, victims of digitalisation, but also use these digital services in a very handy and somewhat confusing way every now and then. That's digital shafts full, digital equality. That's not impossible. It's possible, let's put it this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u274	President! I'd like to continue with this theme. I think this is very valuable, both Mr Kurvisen and Mr Juvose. Here, when Mr Juvonen used the term ‘digit shaft’, we could use that term. The term ‘Digiscrimination’ has been preferred to the term ‘discrimination’inasmuch as there is a question of discrimination andtherefore even a In this respect, this Constitution will not come about if we have more and more public services to manage digitally and we have citizens who are unable to control these devices. They will have to pay excessive sums compared to other citizens in that they are able to manage banking services properly or even to deal with the tax authorities and so on, so that this equality is not achieved before the law, before the authorities. In this respect, it is very important to pay attention to these vulnerable groups in this respect. Yes, I agree with Mr Kurvise that digitalisation is to become a reality, and we should not now become machine breakers. We need to recognise that development is going in that direction. There are a lot of elements and great things that help communicate and communicate, it makes distances shorter and so on. Mr Kurvinen is also right in that we have many elderly people who receive this education. For example, banks often respond in such a way — and unfortunately only in such a way — that ‘meannammedig training’, and many people are learning to use these equipment. Even at this age, Mr. Kiljunen has learned to use these devices, but he has learned to use them, curses constantly, yet he has a hard time studying these things. We learn these things too, of course. But it is not an answer to anyone that people learn, including older people, because there are people who are no longer able to learn or have enough willingness to do it, motivation to do it, and they too must have the right to participate equally in these common services, common systems. That's why this is a big deal. I know that the government has paid attention to this. This is not a criticism of the government; it is a general social problem in general when such a drastic change takes place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u275	Värderade Talman! This is a good conversation. Just a few of my own lifts. In my opinion, this ‘digit shaft’ was a good word. I remember one future workshop where we were some time ago, and there was a scenario where we could talk about a new class division based on digital ability in the future. So, in a way, how you and your child are doing is a lot to do with what is a family’s digital ability, not so much about education or the size of a bank account or anything else. We must make sure that everyone has a chance to develop in it. Now to the previous debate on the EU Recovery Fund, where of course energy and the environment are a clear theme, but also this digitalisation. If you look at the digital platform economy and you look at the global companies that run it, then the EU is completely out of place. The Committee on the Future just saw numbers: was it the case that 60% of companies were American, that more than 30% were Chinese and Asian, that Europe and Africa were just a few percent of the world market in that respect? And it is clear that when the Yanks have a very business-driven digital development, while Asia has a state-led and Europe has more people and information security-based approach, we have been able to create much less business from it. But I'm sure it's good that we have strong security in the background and GDPRs and others. But let us now ensure that, while the EU is a little behind, Finland is still on this front train, and especially as regards the digitalisation of future industrial solutions, that we have every opportunity to create new exports.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u276	Mr President! This bill, which modifies strong electronic identification, has been a positive response. This proposal has been supported and considered socially justified and the availability of e-identification is considered essential for the basic services of society and their safety. So much for this presentation, and I'm glad to see there's a statement back there. This debate in this Chamber has been very interesting, and there has actually been a swot analysis to analyse the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats. We have spoken a few words, but there have been positive points in everyone's speech, as well as those threats and opportunities. I would now ask you, Mr Harakka, to do a swot analysis in the Ministry of Transport in relation to these digital services. In this way you will get a clear picture of what opportunities digital has, what weaknesses, what threats and strengths, and in this way you may also be able to hear the silent voice of those who do not actually access these services, for example, this very electronic identification. I want to raise one pretty big threat, in fact, with the previous storm. We have a lot of power outages and storms in Finland, but there may be situations in rural areas that people are up to 24 hours without electricity. Then you have to have the security of supply in the home, that your cell phones are loaded and in some way you wonder how you can handle it if you need a computer if you don't have any spare batteries. This is another such question that many do not have these in the home and many do not understand that a spare battery can then charge a mobile phone, for example. If you talk about the need for health services or an ambulance, there will be an emergency, so if there is a house dark, then you may not be able to function when there is no electricity. But do a wint analysis so that we can all move forward in Finland and then start developing these services, that electronic identification is also possible for older people. I believe that when we get older, for us, this bull is no strange thing, even if there is a little memory sickness, but we see that we are pressing that and getting in touch with that digital nurse. But today’s aged do not necessarily rule these things, no matter how much we want to. Was Mr Kurvinen, who said that an aged person should not be a victim, certainly not, that is not the issue, and we must ensure that we do not make victims of them. That is indeed the responsibility of us decision-makers, but it is also the responsibility of the banks, it is the responsibility of the operators, it is the responsibility of the various customer services,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u277	Mr Kiljunen and then ministers Harakka and Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u278	Mr President! Finally, I would like to mention one theme which is very familiar to this House today and, as far as yesterday is concerned, to this House's people. So, once again, in this computer, we have changed these key numbers and once again invented these key figures. We middle-aged people and younger people have a good memory, and this key-number jungle will probably still work, but we have a lot of people, not just parliamentarians who are now in pain with this issue, but there are very many people who are memory-disturbed, older people who have this huge number of indicators that revolve around this system. Many of us act in the way I do, that I have all the key figures on this computer so that if anyone wants it, it opens up from the fact that, in fact, the security side that is here is being weakened because of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u281	Now the debate ran a little rough, but ministers Harakka, Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u282	Mr President! We talk a lot about security here in this Chamber — even today, with credit — and I have a request to Mr Squeak that you do not publicly reveal the gaps in your information security policies. As far as I know, most operating systems have, for example, assembled password services that can help in this way. But this is an important issue, as it has just shown here, how to take care of this. And of course, as Mr Kurvinen has pointed out, this case of the defendant, which in itself has nothing to do with this government proposal before us, has, however, reminded us of the importance of this issue. So there is a police investigation going on, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance have their own processes, but the Ministry of Transport and Communications has set up a working group to study more extensively the improvement of information security and data protection in critical sectors of society. The sectors addressed include health, financial markets, energy supply, water supply, transport and digital infrastructure. There's a lot of variation in these. Furthermore, of course, the main systems and networks of public administration are under review here, and concrete proposals for measures are expected and proposals are also being made for policy orientations. The work is therefore already under way, and the interim report will be coming in two weeks and the final report will be in early next year. This will probably tell us that this is a matter of fundamental importance to society. Yet this does not mean that anyone is to be excluded from society. We must improve services, but that does not mean that special groups such as the elderly are no longer able to use them. That's a chance you always have to have. We are currently in the process of a project under the leadership of the Ministry of Finance where digital identity and ways of using it would be a kind of public administration service, but in the same breath we must say that we hope that private activities in these identity services will also take on fire. It's been waiting for many years. It hasn't happened. I hope that this price regulation that we have set, which is supposed to meet the challenge that Mr Kiljune has just presented, that it will not be too high a cost, that it will not slow down and prevent the business that should be created in this area. And then the Ministry of Finance also tries to answer the question that customership is not a prerequisite for proving identity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u283	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate — very important. I have the courage to speak here because I thought that this answering machine was an example of the disruption of internal security in this society, not only in terms of safety in general but also in terms of a very strong sense of security. As Mr Kurvinen pointed out, it was not just a personal tragedy for these people, it is also a matter of widespread concern to their immediate circle, including people all over society, but it is a question of whether we can rely on service providers in the future. Well, the government has initiated many processes, as noted above. Of course, this cowardly, shocking act is under investigation in the Central Criminal Police, and I fully support it. What did we do at the very beginning? We provided crisis support among the ministers for these people. On the same weekend, when these blackmails began to target individual customers, we were able to get organisations — including the Finnish Red Cross, Victim Support Finland — immediately to provide crisis assistance to these people. We met with the ministers at the same time and were already considering these first steps to develop, so that this will never happen again. In addition to emergency aid, it is essential that, first of all, legislation is now being prepared on the part of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to ensure that all service providers are in a position to be compatible, that their information systems are so good and reliable — they have been carried out together with the authorities — that they are all, as it were, ‘A’ class operators, and from this point of view all support to the STM. Furthermore, in connection with this crisis aid, of course, we talked a lot among the ministers about the fact that these people are also being guaranteed a continuous service path forward, because they are now experiencing the acute crisis and have already had a need for such support in the past, so that they would not be left without support now. Well, one of the things that came up well in public feedback was that people were not able to change their own information quickly in different authorities in a convenient way. We are now creating a service path where the victim of a data breach in different authorities can immediately change his or her own information and protect it better. In addition to that, there was a fine display of preparation. I am raising it here because it is now largely linked to the sense of security that I mentioned earlier. In the Ministry of the Interior and in the Rescue Department, in particular, this 72-hour rule is often displayed, i.e. every one of us should have 72 hours' worth of emergency supplies: there would be an emergency radio, and there would be dry food and clean water and many more. I'm sure there's a lot of work to do. We could also report together between the whole parliament and the government from now on that people would know that we are living in a country where, among other things, storm damage is just the kind of situation that people need to be prepared for. That's the 72-hour rule behind your ear, and we'll tell you about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u284	And here comes this half-hour rule soon. Is there a representative at the Screaming...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u285	Mr President! I'll answer the minister. When I just used the so-called me-passive saying that I would put them here in view, I meant, in essence, that when this storm is going through, I would be tempted to do so in public — it means that I do not put my key figures here in view. But I know so many people who have those indicators in a very visible place. Bank IDs may be in wallets, they may indeed be where the equipment is very close. These security systems, which are created around it, force people who do not trust their own memory to put these key figures very close to it, thus weakening the security of information here. I just wanted to make this correction so that it did not leave the wrong impression in public that there were passwords here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u286	Thus, this information also went forward in public.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u287	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the proceedings. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u288	Mr President! The proposal proposes a law on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors. The proposed law would complement the European Union regulation of the same name. The new EU regulation replaces the existing EU regulation and the proposed law replaces the existing law. In addition, the proposal proposes to add the necessary provisions to the law on the retention and disclosure of criminal records between Finland and other Member States of the European Union and the law on criminal records. The proposed law is intended to enter into force on 1 February 21 — at the same time as the EU Regulation becomes applicable. Mr President! The EU Regulation is directly applicable law. However, by way of exception, the regulation requires national legislation by leaving it to the Member State to decide how it intends to achieve its objective and therefore proposes this national law. The EU Regulation and the law adopted under it are largely in line with the existing regulation. However, the aim of the Regulation is to further strengthen and harmonise EU countries' systems to prevent the illicit manufacture of explosives, taking into account the changing threat to public security posed by terrorism and other serious criminal activities. Harmonisation will also ensure the free movement of explosives precursors in the internal market, promote competition between economic operators and encourage innovation, for example by facilitating the development of safer chemicals to replace explosives precursors. The Regulation does not apply to situations where substances are needed in professional, business or business activities. Thus, the regulation does not apply to farmers or industry, for example. This is the situation at the moment. The regulation also applies to online trade, as is currently the case. The regulation divides explosives precursors into two groups. The first group consists of substances the use of which must either be completely prohibited from consumers or subject to authorisation by public authorities for their acquisition and use. The second group includes substances for which suspicious transactions or significant disappearances and thefts must be reported to the Authority. The corresponding allocation is still valid at the moment. A permit system is proposed for preservation in Finland. In other words, if a private individual wishes to use or acquire the substances referred to in the regulation, he/she will continue to need permission from the Police Government to do so. The authorisation system has worked well and has reduced the demand for explosives precursors for individuals. Another option would have been to ban individuals from using all the substances referred to in the Regulation. However, this would have been unreasonable in view of the fact that substances have clear legal uses, such as their use as a cleaning agent or in recreational activities. Furthermore, continuing to do so, the Central Criminal Police would be the authority to be notified of suspicious transactions and significant disappearances and thefts of certain substances. Under the current Regulation, only a dozen notifications have been received. Mr President! Let me go over the main points of what will change today. The new regulation will ban certain chlorates and perchlorates from a private individual. In practice, this ban is of minor importance in Finland, as only a few permits have been applied for for these substances so far. In addition, ammonium nitrate in excess of 16 % by weight will continue to be banned from consumers. What is more important is that sulphuric acid, at more than 15 % by weight, becomes subject to authorisation by consumers. Sulphuric acid is a commonly used substance. The new obligation for consumers is that they will in future have to notify the authorities of the significant disappearances and thefts of certain substances they have acquired within 24 hours of the sighting of the disappearance or theft, which is currently the central criminal police in Finland. In future, the licensing authority, the Police Government, will need to check more closely the background of the applicant, including possible criminal convictions in other EU countries. A request for this would be submitted by the Police Government to the Legal Register Centre, which would make enquiries to other Member States. The granting of an authorisation is always subject to consideration, and the Police Board is considering the significance of any criminal record marking. It is also new that the transaction will need to be subject to a review not only of the consumer's authorisation to obtain a specific explosives precursor but also of the consumer's identity. This ensures that the buyer is certainly a licensed person. In turn, a professional user must prove that he is a professional user and that he needs a substance in his business. These measures have a safety-enhancing effect. The Regulation also applies to legal persons who acquire, import, hold or use precursors that they do not need in their business or business activities. In this case, they are subject to the same rules as consumers. The current Regulation also applies to economic operators operating online. The new regulation specifies their obligations. Online economic operators should also train their staff and have appropriate procedures to detect suspicious transactions. They should also verify the identity of the customer and ensure that a permit covering the intended transaction has been granted. As a new issue, the Regulation provides for online marketplaces. They shall notify their users who intend to make available certain explosives precursors of their obligations under the Regulation. The Regulation also requires a Member State to designate national inspection authorities to monitor the application of the Regulation. In Finland, these authorities would be the police, Customs and the Finnish Safety and Chemicals Agency. The audit authorities shall be empowered to intervene by means of supervisory measures in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the Regulation on starting materials or the proposed national law. It would then be a question of bans and regulations. The Security and Chemicals Agency shall also be given the right to enhance its prohibition or order by means of a periodic penalty payment or by means of a threat to the detriment of the defaulter or to suspend the action. There is also a new obligation to provide training to law enforcement and customs authorities and rescue workers on the content and objectives of the EU regulation, as well as specific information on the content of the regulation. Mr President! The application of the Regulation will impose some administrative burden on companies which will be subject to a new obligation to retain for each transaction the details provided for in the Regulation for a period of 18 months from the date of the transaction. The data also contain personal data, which imposes an obligation on companies to comply with data protection provisions in the retention of personal data. As such, the request for authorisation to be seen in connection with the sale of certain precursors is already a familiar procedure for companies under the current provision. The new regulation does not entail any changes in the company's taxes or charges and does not affect the aid to the company. Furthermore, the Regulation does not require any changes to the company's authorisation or reporting procedures. The Regulation also imposes low costs on public authorities, inter alia, in the form of increased tasks. Mr President! Finally, on the plans and means implemented by other countries. Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands and Austria retain or introduce the authorisation system for all or certain substances. By contrast, Estonia, Latvia, Belgium, Luxembourg, Croatia and the Czech Republic would be banned from ordinary citizens the substances referred to in Annex I to the Regulation on starting materials. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u289	Mr. Speaker! We are dealing here with a motion on explosives. This matter is regulated by a European Union regulation, which is directly applicable in Finland, but it must also be clarified by its own legislation, a proposal for a law on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors and the related legislative amendments which repeal the previous legislation on the same subject. This is a law which deals above all with the kind of substances consumers can possess, and this does not apply to business and, for example, to agriculture. These must be points of note. Perhaps the changes that the Minister for the Interior went through very well, the changes that the Administrative Committee will continue to deal with, are that in future consumers will not be able to obtain certain chlorates and perchlorates than at a certain concentration and perhaps a more widely known substance than sulphuric acid will now be subject to authorisation. Overall, however, according to the government’s assessment, this proposal is such that the legal situation and the current state of the country in which the explosives are regulated do not change much, and the authorisation system remains as a rule the same. Some changes were made in that, as the Minister for the Interior went through, and the aim of these changes – these are from the EU, indeed from an EU regulation, and are complemented by this national legislation – is, of course, the fight against terrorism and the fight against crime and the strengthening of public order and security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u290	The 5th item of the order of business will now be presented for the referral debate. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs, to which the Committee on Transport and Communications must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u291	Mr President! The Government's proposal 232/2020 proposes that Parliament approve the latest so-called civil aviation terrorist agreements, the laws on the enforcement of these agreements and the amendments to the criminal law resulting from the adoption of these agreements. The proposal includes three agreements, namely the 2010 Beijing Convention on the Prevention of Illicit Acts in International Civil Aviation, the 2010 Beijing Protocol, which complements the 70 Hague Convention on the Prevention of Illegal Takeover of Aircraft and the 2014 Montreal Protocol amending the 1963 Tokyo Convention on Crimes and Certain Other Acts on Aircraft. Finland participated in the negotiations on all three agreements that took place within the framework of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). The agreements amend international agreements already binding on Finland. The Beijing and Montreal Protocols amend the Hague Convention and the Tokyo Convention and have been in force for Finland since the early 1970s. The Beijing Convention, for its part, amends the Montreal Convention 71 on the prevention of unlawful acts against civil aviation safety by means of a new consolidated Convention, and among the parties to the Beijing Convention, its provisions prevail over the Montreal Convention and its Additional Protocol of 88. The Montreal Convention entered into force for Finland in 1973 and its Additional Protocol 1998. The agreements included in the government proposal are part of the UN Counter-Terrorism Network, which is part of the international work on counter-Terrorism. The Beijing Convention and the Beijing Protocol, among other things, oblige the parties, within the framework of their jurisdiction, to investigate certain terrorist offences and to condemn them in so far as they are not handed over to the competent other State. In addition, the Montreal Protocol complements the jurisdictional provisions of the Tokyo Convention in line with the Beijing Convention and the Beijing Protocol. During its visit in spring 2019, the UN Counter-Terrorism Committee encouraged Finland to speed up its commitment to these agreements. With their adoption, Finland is committed to all UN anti-terrorism agreements. Mr President! These agreements aim to improve the safety of civil aviation and to update international regulation in this area by harmonising the criminalisation of the laws of the parties to the agreements and the provisions on jurisdictional states. On the one hand, the terrorist attacks in New York on 11 September 2001 and, on the other hand, the increasing harassment of aircraft from airline statistics on the other. The aim of the Beijing Convention and the Protocol is to respond in particular to the shortcomings in international regulation demonstrated by the terrorist attacks. The Montreal Protocol, on the other hand, specifically addresses disorderly behaviour, such as referring to a passenger who does not respect the rules of conduct on board an aircraft or does not follow the instructions of the crew and thus poses a security threat or interferes with public order and discipline on board an aircraft. The Beijing Convention obliges the criminalisation of certain acts liable to endanger the safety of the aircraft and the criminalisation of the use of the aircraft to cause damage, the use of hazardous materials against the aircraft or on board the aircraft as well as their transport on board the aircraft in violation of the provisions of international agreements. The Convention also contains provisions on jurisdictional parties. The Beijing Protocol complements the criminalisation obligations of the Hague Convention and extends the jurisdictional jurisdiction. The Montreal Protocol also extends the jurisdictional jurisdiction and adds to the Tokyo Convention provisions concerning the security officer on board the flight. In addition, the Montreal Protocol encourages States Parties to take legal action in the event of interference on board the flight. Mr President! Acceptance of the agreements requires the extension of the scope of Finnish criminal law to apply Finnish law to a crime committed on an aircraft landing in Finland and still suspected of a crime, and that Finnish law applies to an offence against an aircraft or an aircraft when the operator’s home state is Finland. Most of the offences under the criminalisation obligations contained in the agreements are already covered by the Finnish Criminal Code. However, the adoption of the Beijing Convention requires the criminalisation of an attempt at certain crimes. These offences include violation of the prohibition of a chemical weapon already included in the Criminal Code, violation of the prohibition of a biological weapon, traffic jamming and the transport of dangerous goods. The national transposition of the agreements is not estimated to have significant financial or significant resource implications, although the area of criminality and the scope of criminal law are expanding somewhat. It is assumed that, as a result of the new criminalisations described above, there would be little to deal with in criminal proceedings. The independent importance of the new jurisdictional criteria may also be expected to be limited. In these situations, the criteria of jurisdiction already laid down in Chapter 1 of the Criminal Code would often apply and, in the absence of such criteria, another State or another State would, without exception, have jurisdiction to deal with a criminal case on the basis of the criteria of jurisdiction generally used by the States. The number of offences covered by the new jurisdictional criteria which become known and investigated by the Finnish preliminary investigation authorities should also be limited in practice. The agreements have recently entered into force internationally: the Beijing Convention of 1 July 2018, the Beijing Protocol of 1 January 2018 and the Montreal Protocol of 1 January 1920. Finland has signed the Montreal Protocol on 25 September 2019. For Finland, the agreements will enter into force on the second first day of the following month after Finland has deposited its instrument of acceptance for each of the agreements. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u292	Mr President! As the Minister presented this point, when Finland is now ratifying these international agreements here, Finland will be included in all the anti-terrorism agreements drawn up within the framework of the UN, and in that sense this package will be complete for Finland. In particular, there are a number of phenomena at stake here. The starting point must have been the 9/11 events — 11/9, however it is now translated into different languages — in New York, but there are also these aircraft hijackings that have disrupted air transport in many ways. Not only did they disturb but they have been exceptionally dangerous situations, including those that led to loss of spirit in the world. I would now like to ask the Minister whether there have been any assessments of the importance of these agreements — since they have been in force for some time now, this starting point process has already been in the transport sector, and have they meant anything to the effect that air transport has calmed down? I would assume that they are important and in that respect we could see once again that, when Finland's foreign policy is based on this multilateral system of cooperation based on international agreements, this is a good example of what concrete benefits exist for ordinary citizens by creating a common world order of this kind.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u298	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here, too, 30 minutes are set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u299	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes a temporary amendment to the bankruptcy law as a follow-up to previous temporary changes. The former temporary law and the extension period to it have removed the default of bankruptcy. The current temporary arrangement expires at the end of January, and this new temporary law would restore the default bankruptcy law, although it would provide a longer payment period for companies. The Government's proposal to temporarily amend the bankruptcy law is presented in a situation where the epidemic is in many parts of Finland at the point of spread. The deteriorating epidemic situation shows that support for the company is now perhaps needed more than for a long time. That is why I welcome the government's proposal to give companies time to pay, but at the same time I express my concern about the inadequacy of this proposal and other measures. The most important and serious thing in this whole matter is the cold fact that the government's proposal also states that temporary regulation can only delay, not prevent, bankruptcies. When the temporary arrangement ends in January, a large number of companies are expected to go bankrupt and this proposed legislation will not prevent it. At the latest, this should raise the government's attention to supporting Finnish livelihoods. The government is distributing billions of dollars across southern Europe when the bankruptcy flood is around the corner, when the government's decision is about to kill Finland's peat production and huge numbers of jobs and, most recently, when Neste hit the hand of hundreds of Finns. Now, if ever, Finnish companies need the same scale of action that the government is prepared to do for the citizens of other countries. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u300	Thank you. — And now Minister Henriksson has arrived. We've got time to get started here, but now you can introduce us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u304	Mr President! This government proposal is also in order because this deadline is coming to an end by the end of January. It is also good to remember that, although we have now been spared the massive waves of corporate bankruptcy, it is also partly due to this exceptional law, which does not assume that the debtor is insolvent on the ground that he has not been able to pay his debts a week for the creditor's call for payment. However, the situation is very, very difficult for many companies, and I know myself more than a hundred years old, and their own capital has gone down for example for a very short period of time, so in such a situation, even though they have managed to restore it, they will not get any kind of social support — that is, I would urge you to assess these criteria especially for the smallest entrepreneurs, self-employed, that they get some flexibility in this situation. There are a huge, huge number of companies that seem to go bankrupt in the spring just because they have not been given sufficient flexibility in their current and temporary difficult situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u305	Thank you. — Does Minister Henriksson have any further comments?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u306	Mr President! It is precisely because of these difficulties raised by Mr Junnila, which is precisely why the government is now taking action. In this way, we are also trying to make it possible for companies that still have a future to survive. And that is why it is also very important that there is still this cost support, which is currently a minister at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. Under Lintilä's command in preparation. The government will do everything in its power to ensure that all the companies that have been in trouble because of the interest rate are able to cope with this difficult time. And I have also heard today that the Committee on Legal Affairs has therefore already started working on this proposal. That is a very good thing, and it seems that it will be achieved before Christmas in Parliament. This makes it a little easier for these companies after January. So, President, I am grateful that Parliament seems to have a positive attitude towards this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u307	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Minister Henriksson, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u308	Mr President, värderade talman! Corona virus pandemic has chastised our society in many ways, and for some the pandemic has unfortunately meant layoffs or even job losses. These are very difficult experiences for the individual. The government wants to support citizens and safeguard their rights, especially at a time like this when many people are forced to take debt to overcome the crisis. In order to facilitate the position of consumers and reduce debt problems, Parliament adopted in summer a law temporarily lowering the interest rate ceiling for pure financial credits to 10% and prohibiting direct marketing of credit and credit brokerage services. The law will be in force until the end of this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u309	Mr President! Another excellent proposal from the government to address the problem of debt today. Continue along the same path, and you will receive much commendation. I'm sure you'll save a lot of people's personal lives with these presentations. I hope there will be a lot of them in the future. The interest crisis is undermining the structures of society as a whole and the economies of our country. Particularly vulnerable are those citizens who struggled with debt problems even before the corona crisis. The deterioration of the working situation and the increased costs have further deepened the financial distress of many. The last thing that would be needed in this situation would be to give the fast-track companies the freedom to take advantage of the plight of citizens in the midst of the crisis. I therefore think it is important for this government proposal to temporarily amend Chapter 7 of the Consumer Protection Act to curb high interest rates on consumer credit and to limit aggressive marketing of consumer credit. At the same time, there would be interference with the circumvention of the previous temporary regulation, which, in its typical way, has been practised by quick-luggage companies at the expense of citizens and society. Mr President! Debt problems and their solution should be considered in the longer term in the context of the interest rate crisis. Some 400,000 Finns with a default mark send a clear message that something needs to be done even after these temporary measures and the interest rate. If something positive is to be found in the midst of all of this, these temporary regulatory measures on fast-track companies will provide valuable information on how to tackle exploitation in the future and how to reverse the number of debt problems. The same applies to the temporary closure of slot machines. In particular, Finland cannot afford to go back to the same path where debt problems are allowed to deepen, and the number of default marking and gambling problems is increasing year by year. In this acute situation, temporary measures must continue and learn lessons from future solutions in order to address the gloomy fates to which the citizens face debt problems. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u310	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes that the Act on the Temporary Amendment of the Consumer Protection Act be extended until the end of September next year when it was due to expire at the turn of the year. In the same context, a number of changes are proposed to the regulation. As the economic challenges associated with interest continue, it is assumed that many consumers will increasingly have to rely on credit funding. The current situation underlines the need for further measures, and I do not believe there are any grounds for abandoning the changes that have been introduced to protect consumers. I thought temporary regulation was necessary in the spring, and I support the proposal now. The interest rate ceiling should be maintained at 10% and increases in payments should be prohibited. Mr President! In the longer term, the marketing of all unsecured consumer credit should be reviewed and the regulations permanently tightened. Since these temporary changes to the regulation of interest rates have now been made, it is essential to make careful statistics and ex post evaluation of them. This information could be used in future projects, legislative reforms and improve the quality of impact assessment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u311	Mr President! I also consider this bill to be quite successful and necessary in this situation. Thank you very much, Minister. One detail I would like to highlight when the Minister was talking about retroactive legislation and how it might not be possible to apply it in this situation. It reminds me of the bill tabled by Mr Laakso, which, however, had taken the matter into account in such a way that it would also apply to ongoing credit agreements concluded prior to the entry into force of the law, as far as credit withdrawals after the entry into force of the law are concerned. In other words, my view is that it would be quite possible to do this, especially with regard to continuous credit. Then, as the Minister said earlier, these one-off loans and others are a separate matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u312	Mr President! Indeed, I thank the Government and the Minister for this proposal. Indeed, I did, and last week there was a bill in the discussions — I did it in the spring — which indeed had a 10% interest rate cap all the time. In practice, even though we are living in a time of interest and a time of trouble, the problem of this interest rate will not change, even if the interest rate subsides. In just the same way, people are in trouble with their unreasonable interest rates. I would be very happy if we even considered not leaving this temporary, but making it a permanent solution, because the number of debtors actually increases and increases for years, and it will actually cost society a lot of money because of mild phenomena, because families are breaking up and lives and so on. In other words, we would hardly be worse off in society, even if we left this ceiling permanent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u313	Mr President! This temporary amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, the move forward, is highly justified. It has already been pointed out that the excessive behaviour of these fast-start companies — excessive interest rates, different types of aggressive marketing — has led to very difficult situations, over-indebtedness in positions where people do not want to make any more progress in their lives. This ceiling is highly justified. Mr President! Of course, this corona epidemic and its associated activities with all their burdens and problems have also done a great deal of good in that we have had to renew our legislation on many points and also to change our behaviour. It may be that when a person is an operator who also learns from a new one, there are certainly many social activities that we will then perhaps continue to maintain, learning about this corona, the functions of the corona virus, now improving our own life, as it were — not only as it were, but genuinely. In my opinion, this is a model of one of the legislative changes that could be of a definite nature that the ministry would be in favour of examining the possibility of this becoming a genuinely permanent practice and not just a temporary one, as it is now. There is clearly a need for a permanent legislative reform here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u314	Mr President! This bill is good and important, and it is good that this 10% ceiling is being extended until the end of September. And it is good that there is a general debate here in the Chamber on credit and interest rates and on the distress and anxiety of a person who comes on when there are many credit cards and has many debts and is impossible to cope with those debts. It is then that we are in the midst of a human crisis and that is where the family, the children who suffer there, is seriously damaged. It reminds me of how much money can be spent on that borrower and whether the ceiling on interest rates could be even lower. Where is it regulated that it should be the 10%? Could it be even lower? And I am in favour of Mr Laakso's bill that this ceiling on interest rates could also be a permanent solution. It could shed some kind of light on the life of the person who has a lot of credit to pay because it is an endless swamp, it never diminishes. It certainly does not diminish quickly. This corona crisis has shown how we actually live on the edge of a knife, how easily and quickly that own economy collapses when the job goes and gets laid off or laid off. And I'm afraid there's going to be a new division of property. This means that in that economic crisis people are forced to sell their property and give up what they own, or, with the debt burden on their necks, they are forced to sell their homes, perhaps their summer places. In other words, such risks, of course, the danger, the danger, is that people are not going to be able to cope, and they are not going to survive in their everyday lives. At the same time, equal tax is the same for all. Food costs as much to everyone, is rich or poor, you have to pay its VAT, as is fuel taxation. You pay for everything, and it does seem unfair, you might think so. I would like to ask the Minister how you would respond to these thoughts. Are they at all capable of sharing them, and what can be done to ensure that every person survives and does not end up in desperate action because the money is not enough? I always think that as long as money survives, it will be easy to do so, but since the recession of the 1990s, the situation has been so serious for people that suicides have even been committed because of the loss of the economy, and it is an excessive loss.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u315	Mr President! In fact, I would like to continue in the spirit of the excellent speeches made by these previous representatives. There seems to be a great deal of consensus here on the part of Parliament on these indebtedness issues, and I would therefore like to ask that, unlike this amendment to the bankruptcy law, this amendment to the Consumer Protection Act could actually be discussed as a permanent change if the government were to bring this as its own proposal. Indeed, I would ask: So is there some kind of dark clouds in the sky why such a change might not be possible? Would you be so kind as to analyse that situation? Would it be possible for us to get there? And the second question I would like to ask you is: What kind of follow-up work or research will now be carried out in connection with this change, which has been in force and continues, i.e. how will these results be considered? So how will we learn how this has affected debt and the debt situation? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u316	Mr President! This is where billboards have been made to continue on the chosen line. When Mr Tynkkynen was talking about more permanent changes as to whether these were considered, I would like to raise another matter of this kind in the Ministry of Justice, namely the collection costs of corporate claims, to which the level of consumer claims would apply. I understand that this has at least been under preparation, and the government is suggesting that, in order to facilitate the position of small and medium-sized enterprises, a temporary amendment to the recovery law would also apply to the recovery of claims on consumers when the debtor is an SME. Has this also been considered from the point of view of the representative? Mr Tynkkynen pointed out that this too would be a more permanent change? I believe that this would have very broad support on the part of small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u317	Chairman! To my part, the only thing I can say is that when the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs took this earlier decision last spring to reduce the interest rate cap to 10%, it can generally be said that these criteria for continuing this legislation have not disappeared at all. It is quite clear that this cap alone will not solve the problems of over-indebtedness. We know that much more needs to be done, but the fact is that, in this difficult economic situation, continuing the desperate situation of people who are already insolvent by being granted very high-interest unsecured loans, I might even say, completely irresponsible behaviour. That is why I believe that we have a responsibility and an obligation in this House to ensure that this situation is not made worse at this stage. There has also been some discussion about whether this temporary legislation would have increased the number of default marking, and now at least the explanations provided so far by the Guarantee Fund and also by the Consumer Union show that this has not happened directly. The number of default marking has not significantly increased from what it has been trending in previous years. But we know that these unsecured loans at these unimaginably high 20% interest rates are one of the main reasons why people's over-indebtedness and the situation in this society are exacerbated, and that is why, in the midst of the corona crisis, the continuation of this legislation so far is justified. Let me add that the objective of the SDP has long been to ban these so-called quick-leases, unsecured credits altogether. I believe that we are quite in agreement on this too. Yes, in this society, we must have other means of responding to these acute situations and getting help in difficult situations than the fact that we are faced with such an unfortunate situation of resorting to these quick levers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u318	Mr President! Thank you also for the support you have shown here this evening. This is a difficult situation where we are now, and it is of course the case that citizens need all the support the government can give. Fortunately, we live in a Nordic democracy in which we have also ensured that we have an effective social security system, and that is perhaps now in response to Mr Juvonen's question about how the government sees this overall situation. We have basic security and we have housing allowance and so on. We try to do things in such a way that everyone in Finland is taken care of. This law is now intended to extend the regulation on the cap on interest rates so that the 10% ceiling will be in force until the end of September next year. Now that this has been in force, it can be said that this has worked very well, but it has also known that those who are in a very, very difficult economic situation will no longer receive these speed levers. Perhaps that has been the intention, then, that if you are so over-indebted that you should not take credit anymore, the fact that the ceiling has been set at 10% has in practice also led to it — and it is good for everyone to be aware — and also to know that not everyone receives those quick loans in the same way as before. This has come to the fore, i.e. a tight cap on interest rates, on the other hand, temporarily hampers access to credit, particularly for the most economically disadvantaged consumers. According to the findings of the Competition and Consumer Authority, several fast credit companies have ceased to grant new credits and to offer new withdrawals on the basis of old credit agreements or have announced that they will only grant new withdrawals from existing credits. Then, on the other hand, some consumers have now obtained credit more cheaply than before, and this has, in a way, been the positive side. It's been the good thing. Now that we have raised the question of whether this could be made permanent legislation, that is exactly what we must now evaluate and go through all these experiences, and it is clear that not all the rapporteurs are satisfied that this is now being extended. Some of the commentators are very satisfied with this, which means that the feedback goes from side to side. The view of the government is that because this corona pandemic is still here in the midst of us, and because we see that we can also help the situation of our citizens with this regulation, that is why it will be brought here and we will be doing this by the end of September, but the Ministry of Justice will carry out that impact assessment. There is much more to be done there, and next year we will be increasing resources for debt counselling and we have now also started preparing for this reduction in the number of payment default entries. Here are a few withdrawals on the issues that are currently pending. Very important overall. A positive credit register is also in preparation,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u319	Mr President! I think the Minister has mentioned a very central point here. Indeed, this reduction in the interest rate ceiling has meant that not all people will receive these unsecured credits anymore, but here is the idea. In other words, people who are, in principle, in such a difficult situation that they no longer have access to credit through other means have received this 20% new unsecured credit, in the worst case scenario, for the payment of previous credits. It is known that, now that this 10% interest rate cap has existed, these many credit institutions will simply no longer be able to grant these credits to these already insolvent ones, and that is what we are seeking here. The starting point is, of course, that there must be other solutions for these people than a new quickie. We know, for example, that in the Guarantee Fund we have people who have finally come to them through the heaviest process, faced with default marking, where the largest sums have been up to EUR 40000 just short-lived. There has always been a new and, above all, high-interest quick-lease, payment of these earlier quick-loans. So cutting off this cycle is extremely important, and that is where the Minister then said about these other ways of helping. Social credit should be national, it is an extremely good way of helping people at a time when we are not still talking about many, several thousand euros. But people are still in a very unequal position today in relation to whether they receive this service or not, because not all municipalities have it. Also The resources of the Guarantee Foundation must be sufficient for them to be able to contribute to these issues of credit, and then, on the one hand, this general economy and debt advice, to increase people's access to assistance and support as early as possible, to provide advice on how to deal with these situations. These are, in my view, the key issues on which we must move forward alongside this. And I would also like to say that, as regards this quicker deletion of the default marking from the register, I think that is a very good trend. It is totally unreasonable that people who have done their debt should have their affairs in order, after all, for excessively long periods of time, then suffer those consequences. We know what a default marking means for people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u320	Ladies and gentlemen! Now I say that there is a minute in advance and three speeches, i.e. I will listen to how we speak, and then I will make a decision on where the debate will be suspended and resumed later in the evening. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u321	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you spoke about how, with the government's proposal, you have received different statements in relation to your proposal, but I would not be concerned about that at all. It is quite clear that the profits of the fast-start companies will not be so big in the future, but I think these companies have been cashing out those most distressed people for quite many years. If you're on the losing side, it's okay. On the other hand, you have just mentioned certain people who are no longer able to get these quick levers. I would not be concerned for them either, precisely because, in reality, their economy has already collapsed. They have money at their disposal, but their economy has actually collapsed, and with these new speed levers they have only been able to hold up that house of cards. For their part, it's better that that collapse comes sooner so that it doesn't go up ten grand in debt. We are not doing anything else, for example, if we talk about drug users, even if those withdrawal symptoms come and the unfortunate situation when that drug use stops, talk about not doing that intervention. The sooner we do, the better. And so let its economy collapse earlier so that its debt does not accumulate so much in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u322	Mr Laakso, you will speak briefly, or you will continue later.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u323	Mr President! Mr Mäkinen did hit the nail, because that is exactly the way Mr Mäkinen brought up was used to be called a loan shark. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u324	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 29/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Mr Viitanen, presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u325	Mr President! Here's a short, very short introduction. It seems to me that we are constantly returning to this issue. This is the third time. So the question is that the Commission has granted temporary non-taxation in the case of non-EU means of combating the interest rate, the instruments of protection. And here we have also wanted to make this possible, so that this would also apply to domestic purchases and intra-EU purchases. These derogations are always for a certain period of time, and in this case this will now be extended by six months, this time until the end of April. Of course, we would all hope that we will not have to come back to this again. Here's a short formula, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u326	Mr President! This is where the chairman of the tax division really told us what was going on. He also said that this was a third time when this matter was being dealt with. Similarly, the assembly now still has an objection to this. Mr. Speaker! Quite briefly, because this matter has been discussed so many times in the Chamber: Indeed, our starting point is that the line chosen in this government proposal is a special one. This is, therefore, a delimitation for the providers of public health and medical services and social services. We therefore see that this will lead to a very new kind of borderline also in taxation and will not take all these situations into account. Similarly, it has been pointed out here that this decision by the Commission would limit the possibility of tax exemption to a private health service provider, but I would just like to say quite briefly that many EU countries have ended up in a completely different situation and that we still do not consider this demarcation to be justified in this proposal, but that this proposal continues to maintain unclear tax interpretations and is subject to such new, uncertain interpretations, which, of course, is certainly not to be welcomed in this situation. And that is why we still have a clause amendment clause in this report, which will be discussed tomorrow. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u327	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 27/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Congressman Viitanen, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u328	Mr President! This is therefore a question of staffing, which the committee is in favour of. The aim of this proposal is to commit the employees of companies to this company and, at the same time, to create a model that would then clarify the challenges associated with the valuation of the share. This, of course, gives rise to a significant tax advantage, and this must be justified, and this is precisely the justification here, and the committee also refers here, for example, to the competitive position of these start-ups, growth companies, both at home and then on the international labour market. There are certain restrictions in this government proposal so that this is not, as it were, used by means of tax planning for a different purpose. There are certain limitations here, for example, that the provision applies only to shares in an unlisted company acting as an employer. The benefit shall be available to the majority of the staff. The shareholder may not own more than 10 % of the shares in the company and the benefit is limited to the staff and the CEO, i.e. not to the members of the Board of Directors or the Board of Directors. The company must engage in actual business activities and the company cannot be located in third countries unless there are tax information exchange agreements. Some of these limits have been targeted in expert consultations by duubies, which is why the committee will also explain to some extent why these limits are justified, and we have come to the conclusion that they are only one-sided. So our report is made up of these elements. Finally, we say that the entry into force will be from the beginning of next year. Originally, this entry into force was already at the beginning of this autumn, but this corona situation, of course, prevented us from dealing with this issue here in Parliament until this autumn. Then we will also emphasise the monitoring of the effects of this bill and also the fact that the Tax Administration is directing the correct interpretation of the provisions. This is a new form of regulation and it is therefore very important to follow it up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u329	Mr. Speaker! Some laws are sometimes given nicknames, and such an old Finnish way of giving a nickname for some new legislation is “Lexja someone’s last name ” — of many kinds — and this law can be used as a sure caller’s nickname than LexSipilä. Why? Well, we'll find out soon enough, during my speech. President! This first-reading report by the Committee on Finance concerns amendments to the Income Tax Act and the Tax Act, and this would change the regulation on the staff contributions of non-listed companies, not listed on the stock exchange. And, as Mr Viitanen has rightly presented the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the committee supports this government proposal. The aim of this proposal, and the aim of this legislative amendment, is to achieve better remuneration for the staff of unlisted growth companies and to encourage employees and employees to acquire shares in the company for themselves in non-listed limited companies and thereby commit employees to the company and to obtain the dravi and value and power of any kind in that company. The committee supports this proposal for a number of reasons. It removes uncertainty about the valuation of a company and thus increases the predictability of taxation. In addition, it will increase the remuneration of unlisted companies and thus improve the competitive position of start-ups and growth companies in the domestic and international labour markets. And as Mr Viitanen said, there are certain restrictions here that are certainly justifiable: precisely this unlisted company's position as an employer, that actually has employees, is not just someone like this employeeless investment company, and then, among other things, this restriction that more than 10 percent of the company is not allowed to own. Mr President! This house has actually had a lot of discussion since 2011-2015 about how to strengthen growth entrepreneurship, genuinely get those new soots to Finland, and there have been networks like this here, growth entrepreneurship networks, have been familiar with the game industry, startup-skin so to speak. And, yes, the idea that top-level experts would commit to Finland, set up companies, expand those companies, is probably a patriotic thing that divides this hall from right to left. Indeed, this has been the long-term idea of Juha Sipilä, and it is a great thing that now other parties have become understanding of this – or we have all built and developed the idea of Juha Sipilä. This is certainly a way we hope to get a little into the Swedish situation, President, so that not as soon as a company succeeds, it will be sold abroad, but it will stay in Finland, grow and develop and create such strong international brands and success stories.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u330	Mr President! This proposal is therefore also very welcome from our point of view. Indeed, the essential point is that if this subscription price of the share were to be below this so-called mathematical value set for the company's share on the basis of net assets, only in these circumstances would this subscription be subject to taxable earned income. I hope that this will continue to help and support the increased use of these human resources, and I hope that this will also clarify this tax practice, which has undeniably been very unclear at the moment. This amendment of the law will not apply to these employee options, and here, too, in its own reading in this report, the Tax Section has quite rightly and rightly also included situations relating to such a possible restriction on the issue of staff and employment option. I welcome the fact that it has also been carried out with such care in this regard. This is something that we have been very positive about. And indeed, as I hoped, in the future this would be an increasingly used procedure, which will then be used in these unlisted companies, and I consider this chosen line to be quite justified in this proposal. Although there have been certain situations where this line has been drawn up, but now that we are starting to assume that this applies to all non-listed companies, to all non-listed companies, to their staff contributions when these specific conditions are met, I see that, to this extent, this is a very good start and that these arguments are very worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u331	Mr. Speaker! I would like to give an even closer, more political interpretation to this reduced tax on staff contributions from non-listed limited companies and to this so-called Lex Sipilä. Much has been said about this present red soil government — even a little absurd to me — over the past year and a half that it is somehow bringing socialism to Finland. I have to say that if such performances are socialism, that socialism is really entrepreneurial, great thing that it is something quite different than what I have understood from the world, quite sad examples of something. In my opinion, Mr President, this is a good example of this government not only actually improving equality between people, but also supporting businesses and entrepreneurship and making sound economic policies. In this government period there are good solutions to industrial policy, there are support for companies in the corona crisis, and the taxation of businesses and entrepreneurs has been considered predictable — a very important issue for Finland’s competitiveness — and then a small carrot like this will be built on it. President! It would be very important for us to get excellence from the world to Finland. I myself have sometimes talked to the top Finnish players in the gaming industry, the owners of startup companies, and that is a rather delicate job to recruit someone from the world, such as America or Asia, who is top-notch in Finland. It may be up to the child to find a place for school or day care and housing, and there would also be many excellence in Finland — one that could make such personnel shares — because Finland is a clean country, Finland is a safe country. But here things work really well, and we also consider this country to be such a country. But, President-in-Office, as a political interpretation, the current red mud government is very entrepreneurial and makes a very sensible and predictable policy for the business community.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u332	Mr President! Mr Kurvinen has just raised the word ‘socialism’ and ‘cosocialism’ or ‘olesocialism’. [Vilhelm Junnila’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u333	Mr. Speaker! Here, Mr Kurvinen, I think he's skating on a slightly escalating surface.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u336	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 28/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u337	Mr President! The committee is also unanimous in its support for this draft law. Thus, nature reserves are exempt from the property tax, and of course this is intended to reduce barriers to the creation of new private protected areas and to implement the Government's objective of safeguarding biodiversity, increasing forest carbon stocks and these positive aspects. This proposal also proposes neutral tax treatment of offshore wind power stations in relation to offshore wind power plants, and this too has a purpose and, of course, it is also intended to improve the conditions for the construction of offshore wind power stations with this tax treatment. President! It is true that this applies only to new offshore wind power stations, i.e. this would come into force at sites that have started to be built on or after 1 January 2021. And here there is some discussion about whether this old existing offshore wind power plant should have been subject to the same regulation, but this is why, among other things, this has been justified by the fact that, in time, it has received a great deal of wind power aid, a great deal of advantage in relation to these new ones, for example in terms of tariffs and others, which is why this approach has been chosen, and we did not go to challenge it here as well. As such, we do not take a position on this way of implementing this regulation, which has not come to much attention in expert consultations. In spite of the fact that this mechanism goes so far that this is finally regulated by regulation rather than imposing a separate percentage of real estate tax on offshore wind power, in this context we are merely stating in general terms the importance of legislation and law-making — and if it is not possible to provide for a regulation, then the government will propose a legislative amendment. Finally, before implementing the change in offshore wind power stations, we need to know from the Commission that the State aid rules of the Union are not an obstacle to this implementation, and we consider it important that the measure is not considered to be prohibited state aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u338	Mr President! This is certainly a good proposal, but as Mr Viitanen knows this in more detail, I would like to ask about this in so far as this obviously also affects Natura 2000 sites and their style. In fact, there are a lot of farms in the archipelago where taxation affects forest and arable areas without real estate or cultivation, but these have still been subject to real estate taxation, and in these cases, for example, there has been a tax increase of up to 980 % on these plots.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u339	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u343	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u344	Mr President! Indeed, this bill aims to get the passport of our people who participated in the Finnish wars completely free of charge. After all, they currently have to pay 50% of their passports, but I think it is just as easy to do so in such a way that the passport is completely free of charge. Now we are not talking about the big money or the huge armrest, I admit it, but it goes without saying that we owe quite a big debt of gratitude to this group, who have made sure that we have our own ticket — and even our own money at one time. This is extremely easy because there is already a system of half-price access to the passport. It is quite easy to change so that those who took part in the war do not have to pay for passports, whether new or renewed, at all. This does not affect the Finnish economy in any way, and of course it does not help these people in any way, but it is also a hand-out. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u345	Thank you for the introduction. — Mr Lundén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u346	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Laakso for this good bill. At this time around the Fourth of July, this bill is more than in order. In his bill, Mr Laakso suggests that those who participated in the Finnish wars should not be charged for applying for a passport, but that applying for a passport, processing the application and renewing the passport are free of charge. According to the current law, those who participated in wars charge about half of the normal cost of a passport. I believe that these truly honourable citizens deserve this too, and I hope that this is a very positive attitude now and in the future. I think these gentlemen and ladies have earned this in accordance with the motion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u347	Mr President! Since 2010, war veterans have received their passports for half the price. As stated in the explanatory memorandum to Mr Laakso's bill, those who participated in the wars can be considered as having already paid an adequate price for the passport in defence of Finland, so they should be entitled to acquire and renew their passports free of charge in the future. Moreover, it is clear that, in terms of economic impact, this amendment of the law would be almost negligible. At the end of this year, according to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the number of veterans is estimated to be only over 6,000, and the number is already decreasing at around 20% per year. I hope, therefore, that no one in this Chamber is opposed to such an important gesture in war against those who have defended Finland. The Finnish passport is the most important symbol of independence.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u348	Mr President! I too would like to thank you for this very good bill, which is above all humane. It must be remembered that according to Kela's predictions, the last veteran in this country will sleep away in 2036, so it is high time to implement this bill so that it can still be enjoyed. Indeed, many veterans are at an age where not everyone will ever be able to use this opportunity again. In that sense, too, we must drive this very quickly, so that we can get it into effect and give them one last chance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u349	Mr President! Member of Parliament Sheikki Laakso has made an important legislative initiative proposing that participants in Finnish wars should not be charged for applying for a passport, but that applying for a passport, processing the application and renewing the passport are free of charge. According to the current law, those who participated in wars charge about half of the normal cost of a passport. I agree with what has been said, and I would like to say that this is a very important and worthy of support. These people have already paid for their passports and have earned this advantage, as Mr Laakso put forward in his bill. In addition to the content of this bill, we also need to ensure in Finland that front veterans and their widows, for example, are well provided with home services and rehabilitation and that these matters are taken care of so that they do not have to wonder why there is no service or rehabilitation there. Especially at the time of the corona crisis, it is important to take care of these people and in every way possible to prevent their loneliness and home failure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u350	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u351	Mr President! Indeed, the purpose of this bill is to take care of the safety of children and the possibility of social care to take a so-called custody decision in situations where the parents of the child in question are going to take the child into a country which is so-called a dangerous country and, in the opinion of the immigration authorities, a country which is too unsafe for adults to travel, and therefore there should by no means be children. There is now a good example of this from a very close time when these children are even being blackmailed by the Finnish State, and it does speak a rather unpretentious language about the attitude of such parents to take their children there, and we think that this situation should be dealt with in such a way that such a situation could simply never arise again in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u352	Mr President! Again, I thank Mr Laakso for this good bill. Mr Laakso proposes in his bill to amend the Child Welfare Act so as to safeguard the child’s right to a safe growing environment by making the export of the child to countries classified as countries which are classified as being excluded from custody in the travel newsletters of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, which endangers his health or development. I think that it is totally unreasonable and, above all, wrong for children to be taken into circumstances where they have no part or lot to play. We must do everything we can to give innocent children the best chance of success in their lives, regardless of parental choices. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u353	Mr President! I am very much in favour of this initiative by Mr Laakso, but I also believe that the Child Welfare Act as a whole would require closer scrutiny and updating to reflect the situation in 2020. This bill seeks to amend the Child Welfare Act in such a way that children should not be taken to countries that endanger their health or development, i.e. countries classified by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in their travel data to be avoided. If the child’s parents were to do so, they would be considered to be the basis for custody. For example, recent examples of al-Hol show that children living in extreme war camps are traumatised and radicalised. The task of child welfare is to safeguard and protect the safe everyday life and the growth environment of all children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u354	Mr President! In fact, this role in the travel bulletin is somewhat unclear to me. I myself have been to many countries which the State Department believes should be avoided. In this respect, perhaps I would be a little cautious in this regard. But how I understand this — what Mr Laakso has meant by this — is that this means, for example, those people involved in terrorist contacts. After all, we have a very recent case in Sweden, where the TV4 channel told us that the mother of a little boy took her to an unauthorized territory controlled by the Isis terrorist organization in Syria, and the custody of the child had already been assigned to her father in 14 C.E., but the father could not do anything when her mother took her to Syria anyway, and now she had returned to Sweden and this custody had been returned to her father. As far as Finland is concerned, of course, this would mean, above all, that it would be possible to take custody in very clear cases such as terrorism or other cases where this would be absolutely necessary in the interests of both the child and national security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u355	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u356	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! There's a bill I've taken to change the Health Care Act into a law. In this bill, I suggest that the municipality organises screening of intestinal cancers for its residents, as specified in the Government Decree on screening. I am very concerned that intestinal cancers are increasing in Finland, but there is no official screening for them, and that is what I am proposing in this initiative. Intestinal cancer is the second most common cancer in both men and women and has become common in Finland rapidly. It affects some 3,400 people each year and kills about 1,300 people. Intestinal cancer develops slowly and is often of a low-symptom or completely asymptomatic early stages. Early detection of intestinal cancer improves the patient’s treatment prediction and reduces suffering as well as the cost of treatment caused by the disease. Intestinal cancer is one of the most expensive cancers in terms of treatment costs. However, the cost of treating bowel cancer found in screening is approximately 20 percent lower than the cost of cancer found in other ways. There is strong scientific evidence of the effectiveness of screening and the EU has recommended screening to its Member States already in 2003. The World Health Organization (WHO) Cancer Research Centre IARC did the same in 2018. So there's support for screening intestinal cancers. Mr President! It is a pleasure to note and say that the budgetary plan has earmarked EUR 10 million of resources for screening intestinal cancer, i.e. between 2020 and 2023, which means that this issue is on the way. I have heard that this is so far along that the regulation on this is on the table, so to speak, and it is possible to make changes to it. As soon as possible, of course, we hope that this will happen. In other words, we are going to have gut cancer screenings in Finland. The screening of intestinal cancer reduces mortality to intestinal cancer. Early diagnosed cancer is easier to treat, and it causes little suffering. In Finland, this screening programme for intestinal cancer started in 2019 as a pilot, and 12 municipalities have joined this screening this year: Jyväskylä, Kaarina, Kustavi, Muurame, Orivesi, Oulu, Paimio, Posio, Sauvo, Säkylä, Tampere and Ylitoristoo. So as a pilot, this screening has already been carried out in Finland, but it is a great thing that it will be extended to all people. So this year, all men and women aged 60, 62, 64- and 66 have been invited to the screening in the municipalities where this screening is now piloted, but when this program reaches its full scope, that is, it is recorded in the law and belongs to everyone, then all those aged 60 to 74 are invited to the screening every two years. The screening test is a faecal blood test to look for blood in the faeces, and this is how to find these possible cancer beginnings. Screening is inexpensive, certainly not terribly pricey. Mr President! A month of lung cancer was also observed in November. In addition to this intestinal cancer, lung cancer is insidious and lurking, and it can also come to a person who has never smoked. It is very important that we also remember that, for example, in lung cancer, screening should be possible. The white ribbon on my chest is the mark of a month of lung cancer. I think it is very important that we also remember this cancer here in Parliament, as well as all the other cancers that are stalking us. By providing sufficient funding, ensuring that researchers can act by developing new medicines and good treatments, ensuring that cancer can heal, recover, and I believe that one day we can also overcome cancer. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u357	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Juvonen, for this fine bill. At present, intestinal cancer is the third most common cancer in our country, both in men and in women. Screening reduces mortality, and early-diagnosed intestinal cancer is also easier to treat and causes less human suffering. For these reasons, the EU has also recommended screening of intestinal cancer for almost 20 years, so I warmly support Mrs Juvonen's initiative to add a new section to the Health Care Act, which is binding on screening. Mr President! A new screening programme for intestinal cancer was launched in Finland last year, but only a few municipalities are currently participating in voluntary piloting. We should take the example of Denmark and Sweden, where intestinal cancer is widely screened. Here too, as in all state activities, prevention and early-stage services should be invested.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u358	Mr President! In short, on the legislative initiative taken by Mr Juvose — an excellent initiative. The early detection of intestinal cancer is certainly crucial to a person’s life. A good friend of mine — he is a doctor — once said that when we were discussing this particular cancer screening issue, it was quite fitting. He said that if he were a dictator in this country who had more control over health care, he would lay down such a law that every man and woman should be given a colonoscopy for their 50th birthday because it would be possible to ensure... It is said that it is not a very difficult operation to do, it is easy to do, and it would allow people to be sure that such a serious insidious disease is not developing. Eating increases, but it is important to remember — here you can say so much about health — when we go to a café or a bar the next day to eat, that healthy food and proper exercise are probably the best means of combating it. Then these controls come after that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u359	Mr President! These screenings are valuable additions to the fight against cancer because they are preventative to a very large extent. Mammography, the screening of breast cancer, has already been carried out for 30 years, so to speak, and 50 years of cervical cancer have also been screened in women, and these have certainly contributed to the fact that we have managed to control these serious diseases. In the other week, we also discussed screening of prostate cancer, i.e. making the PSA tests regular and mandatory for people over 50 years of age. And this is also the issue of screening for intestinal cancer. I believe that both these new initiatives are important legislative initiatives in this respect. They should be taken seriously in my investigation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u360	Thank you. — And the author of the initiative, Mr Juvonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-01-ps-155.u361	Mr President! Thank you for these good and profitable speeches. I agree with Mrs Hoskose that this kind of observational study is also important and very important. After the screenings, we'll start the investigation. If there is anything suspicious in the screenings, then there is a possibility that these further studies will be carried out, including the various Skopies mentioned by Hoskose. Mr President! Prevention is a very important issue. When I mentioned lung cancer in that speech, I would like to remind everyone that the first diagnosis of lung cancer may be made at a health centre in a general practitioner’s office when a general practitioner asks for a lung scan of his patient. For example, there may be an elderly person who has not received long-term chest thorax X-rays and may then show changes. In other words, small things, very cheap research can be used to find these serious things, and I would like people to take thorax lung photos in order to find even the smallest precursors. We really are talking about this intestinal cancer. It is precisely so, as has been said here, that screening can make cost-savings, that it is possible to have more years of life, and these are important reasons why this screening should also be recorded in the regulation, and that is what is happening. I would like to thank the government for having heard my messages. If I remember correctly, it was probably the first time in 2012 that I took initiatives in the Espoo Council on this screening of intestinal cancers, and right now, there is also my issue in the Council during the budget negotiations. Slowly moving forward, and in the future this will expand. He needs money, doesn't he? EUR 10 million is a lot of money, and it is great that the government has also included in its government programme that resources are being allocated to cancer — thank you for that.
