ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 9/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 November 2020. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u2	Mr President! I will table an amendment in response to the objection, which will extend and moderate the transitional period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u3	Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. A performance by Heinose.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u4	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 10/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 November 2020. With the support of Ville Kauunto Kari Tolvanen, the debate has suggested that the legislative proposal in line with the objection be taken as the basis for the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u5	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 25/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 November 2020. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u6	Mr President! I'm going to make a motion for a change of sentence in line with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u7	Mr President! I support Mr Immonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u8	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. Here the Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Administrative Committee, the Defence Committee and also the Committee on the Future must give an opinion. After a presentation by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Haavisto, which takes 10 minutes, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches that have been requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. After the group talks, there will be a debate of about an hour. Other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. A maximum of 2.5 hours is reserved for the referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u12	Mr. Speaker! We live even in a difficult and dangerous time where threats to security require us to be prepared, alert and influenced. Nuclear weapons, climate change, biodiversity loss and global pandemics are the common existential threats of humanity. They are duly taken into account in both the Government Programme and the Report. The new threats to large-scale security have not arisen from military use of force and cannot be resolved by military means, but they can also become sources of military conflict as a result of climate change, migration and inequality. We have also seen the return of traditional power policy, including in our neighbourhood, and so we too must be prepared both by national action and by international cooperation to prevent armed conflicts and situations that endanger the security of Finland and the functioning of society and Finland from entering into military conflict, as stated in the report. Taking care of your own defence capability is a key factor in this. It will be outlined in more detail in the defence report prepared on the basis of this report. We support our defence capability through international cooperation, in which we contribute in such a way that it serves our own expertise and capabilities development and allows us to participate in international crisis management, if necessary at our discretion. As a militarily non-aligned country, Sweden is our closest partner in expanding international defence cooperation, for which we do not set any limits on how far we can go in cooperation. Another important forum for cooperation is the European Union, which has made more progress in strengthening its common security and defence policy in recent years than in previous decades. This is commendable for us and we hope to see Sweden fully involved in this development. The EU still has a lot of work ahead of it. The shortcomings in responding to the interest-rate crisis show the need to strengthen Europe's preparedness and solidarity. EU leadership is needed and the Union's commitment to democracy, human rights and the rule of law must not give rise to doubts. Security also requires us to be comprehensive in terms of security of supply, cybersecurity and, in general, the safety of people's daily lives. It is important to ensure that Finland remains a country where there are no internal divisions separating people and contrasting lines that create insecurity and which could be exploited beyond our borders. Security policy is not only a matter of preparation, it must also be an active influence. These challenges can only be met in a sustainable and successful way through extensive multilateral cooperation. In recent years, extremist nationalist forces have undermined and underestimated cooperation in a way that undermines security and human rights. The election result in the United States gives hope that this cooperation can be strengthened again. This applies not only to the defence of human rights, to the safeguarding of fair and transparent trade, to the return to arms control and disarmament negotiations, but also to the halting of climate change and to putting the world on a sustainable path. The nuclear powers are also modernising and developing their nuclear systems. That is why Finland's accession to the UN Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, which will enter into force in January, would be a welcome thing to demonstrate that we cannot and do not want to rely indirectly on inhuman weapons of mass destruction on the security of any country and that we want to put pressure on the nuclear powers to take real steps to achieve nuclear disarmament, to which they are committed in the Non-Proliferation Treaty. As Chairman of the Parliamentary Monitoring Group, I would like to thank the Government for its good cooperation in preparing the report. The Monitoring Group has been consulted and the comments we make are reflected in the report. The result is good and balanced and we now have the opportunity to further improve it in the parliamentary process. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u13	Mr President! The Foreign and Security Policy Report 2020 has been prepared in extensive cooperation with ministries, the Prime Minister's Office and the President of the Republic. Parliament has participated in the work through the Parliamentary Observatory. The words of thanks for the cooperation belong to all participants. In Finland, the report on foreign and security policy has been made with broad consensus. However, with variable government programmes, the variable focus of the report can also be different. The risk is that the report's role as the main guidance document for Finland's foreign and security policy will be blurred. Mr President! The traditional security threats of the report and Finland’s objectives are largely the same as in the 2016 report — the spearheads are still state independence and territorial integrity. However, despite traditional policies, the value weightings of the content of the 2020 report are significantly different from those in the 2016 report. The content is strongly marked by government ideas and ideology. The most important theme in the report is human rights, but also the mitigation of climate change and its perception as a security issue stand out. The report states that the Finnish security environment has changed in a more unstable direction and that the situation continues to deteriorate in a long-term context. Military tensions in the Baltic Sea, for example, are still present for a long time. Hybrid influence and threats to the cyber environment are increasing. In particular, the development of network security is increasingly important. However, there is no immediate military threat to Finland. In the report, Finland defines itself as a non-military country that maintains a credible national defence capability. The report highlights Finland's clear desire to develop its NATO partnership and western defence cooperation. Military cooperation is also being developed in Nordic Arctic defence cooperation. This development is reflected by the declaration of intent between Finland, Sweden and Norway signed in northern Norway at the beginning of September, which determines the level of ambition for closer defence cooperation between the countries. Competition in the Arctic is accelerating and there is a risk of conflict. Russia is of great military importance in the Arctic region, and there are also nuclear weapons in Russia. Also China is increasingly interested in the economic potential of the region. Mr President! The report mentions terrorism and violent radicalisation a few times, but does not take a broader view of the role of jihadism and Islamic extremism as a threat to foreign and security policy. We have only just witnessed Islamist terror a few weeks ago. Jihadism and Islamic extremist violence are therefore one of the most significant external threats, since the events in France were undoubtedly aimed at hitting the heart of democracy and Western values. Another issue that has been overlooked is migration flows from outside Europe, which should be seen as a more serious external threat to national security. The report on the new dimension will also be accompanied by an epidemic of corona, which put the whole world and Finland's threats and preparations in a new order. With interest, people’s normal everyday life changed and the sense of security was shaken. Health safety will, for the first time, rise to the level of military threats. With regard to the EU's development and capacity for action, the report paints too rosy pictures. The report says that the EU has remained united despite the challenges. We cannot fully agree with this. The development of the EU has involved serious crises and the deepening of integration has not solved the problems. The EU's defence policy has also not been very effective or effective. The destination is missing and the Member States have very different views on the strategic needs of defence policy. The UK's resignation from the EU has also brought its own challenge to this. Mr President! With the change in the operating environment, we are increasingly exposed to new threats. It is common to them that they can no longer be effectively combated by traditional means alone. An example of this is the active cyber intelligence carried out by Russia and China in Finland. Finland is located in an area of strategic and geographical importance from the point of view of the major powers. Finland should therefore avoid becoming a pawn in trade between major powers. Faced with these wider challenges
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u14	Mr President! A small country cannot afford to make major mistakes in its foreign and security policy. The report sets reliable and usable seamarks for Finland. We must always try to see deep underground currents, always outline the essential development lines. Without a sense of history, however, this is not possible, and above all, the famous facts must be identified. After the Cold War, we lulled ourselves into a world of optimism and cooperation. Now again, however, we have to sketch the world with new eyes. Insecurity, confrontation and power politics now mark reality. The stability of our neighbourhood is a crucial factor in Finland's security. Of course, this has always been the case. We see how Russia is trying to restore its former position of superpower. The actions in Georgia and Ukraine and the illegal takeover of Crimea are examples of power politics and serious violations of international law and joint commitments. We are now witnessing a development in which the strategic importance of both the Baltic Sea and the Arctic region is emphasised. Of course, this has a direct impact on Finland’s security policy position. Although we are not faced with an immediate military threat, we are in an area of strategic importance from the point of view of the great powers, where tensions are naturally reflected. The basic thing is always and under all circumstances to take care of our own safety. We always do it ourselves, but we never do it alone again. Therefore, it is important for Finland to continue to participate actively in international defence cooperation to ensure compatibility with the provision and reception of assistance. The Western integration of Finland is our fundamental choice. We are an integral part of the Western security community. There should be no doubt about that. We're not going back to the gray zone. Important steps have been taken with Sweden, now also with Norway, and our cooperation is still intensifying. There is no justification for us to set any sort of backtrack for our cooperation with Sweden in advance. In the long term, it may be appropriate to fund a state treaty-level arrangement for a period of crisis, since when the truth comes, no more negotiations or disputing will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u15	Mr President! The main task of foreign and security policy is to strengthen the security of Finland and the well-being of its citizens. Finland’s security is based on strong national defence capabilities based on general military duty and reserves, intensified security policy cooperation and active stability policy. These constitute a preemptive threshold for the use of military force or its threat to our country. In Finland’s foreign and security policy, the long-term focus is on continuity and predictability. At the same time, we will develop our capacity to respond to changes in the operating environment, such as global health security and the challenges posed by emerging technologies. The Finnish model of total safety is valued internationally. The model of cooperation between public authorities, business organisations and citizens strengthens both internal and external security, which is increasingly interlinked. Pandemics, terrorism, cybercrime and hybrid influence know no borders. They must be responded to through closer cooperation at both national and international level. Mr President! It is estimated that the United States will return to the tables of cooperation as a more predictable and stable player. This is positive news for global development and, in particular, for the relationship between Europe and the United States. Finland can continue to play a major role as a bridge builder of power relations, just as when the Presidents of the United States and Russia met in Helsinki in July 18. A new era of relations between Europe and the United States will not relieve Europeans of their own security or future responsibility. The European Union must continue to be strengthened as a security community. Europe, as a continent, must not become a pawn in a major power race, but must be able to strengthen its own industrial, technological and security policy capacity. Koronapandemia has shown how essential it is to strengthen self-sufficiency and security of supply. Finland must be an active actor in multilateral institutions. The ability of the UN, the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the World Trade Organisation (WTO) to act is important for all small nations, but especially for those like us. The world of trade wars must enter the world of trade agreements. An open and fair trading system is in the interest of Finland’s export-driven system. Our country's prosperity and employment depend on how our export companies thrive in the market and how more and more SMEs become involved in international trade. We have considerable expertise in food security and the sustainable use of forests. Building security begins at close range. For Finland, the steady development of the security environment in Northern Europe, the Baltic Sea and the Arctic region is central. The stability of our neighbourhood will be promoted by deepening cooperation with Sweden and Norway and by developing the NATO partnership. Mr President! The security of a small nation is born of the art of understanding the changes of the world and of wisdom in determining its own place and politics. As Vice-President of the monitoring group, I would also like to thank the President of the Republic, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government and the Parliamentary Monitoring Group for preparing the report. The Parliamentary Group of the Centre Party hopes that the report will receive a constructive and consensus-building parliamentary discussion. In foreign and security policy, national unity is a strong value worth sticking to. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u16	Mr President! ‘The aim is to achieve a more stable,pre-emptive and safe world. “ This is how succinct and finely it is stated in the recent Government report on foreign and security policy, which is due to set the objectives and priorities of Finland's international policy for the next few years. The report also gives a broad picture of the environment in which foreign and security policy operates, i.e. what the world looks like from our country's perspective. The outlook is full of challenges: the warming climate, the impoverishing nature, the pandemic, the return of the great power race and the challenge of democracy cast shadows over the future. However, it is not to lose hope or curl up inwardly in the face of challenges, but to do your part and more for a safer world. In building security, it is essential to understand the world from a wide security perspective and to take into account the importance of social, economic and environmental development as a basis for security in addition to immediate security policy positions. However, this broad concept of security does not exclude the need to assess the world and its own activities from the perspective of traditional, more limited security. This report is, therefore, very well caught up in time and combines these different aspects seamlessly – this is where you can look close and far at the same time. The report rightly highlights climate change more strongly. A rapidly changing climate threatens security in itself. Extreme weather phenomena and the deterioration of living conditions and the conditions of livelihoods are already creating tensions and instability, and if we do not achieve a rapid, permanent and drastic fall in emissions, the consequences will be many times more terrible. At the same time, climate change as part of the wider ecological crisis forces us and the world to rebuild our energy economy, land use and material cycles on a sustainable basis. This in itself changes geopolitical and economic settings when the power built on fossil incomes disappears. So there are inevitable changes ahead that would be useless and dangerous to deny. The future President of the United States, Joe Biden, has also announced the re-establishment of the Paris climate agreement. Ecological reconstruction should therefore be a joint global effort in which Finland, as a competent pioneer, can be a larger producer of solutions and benefit financially from it. However, the main reason for action is ethical. It is our responsibility to leave a viable planet for future generations as a basis for prosperity. Mr President! In addition to mitigation of climate change, support for sustainable development and extensive security work such as peace building, the important task of the report is to take a position on Finland's foreign and security policy position. Our basic line here is stable and predictable and very based on bilateral relations, cooperation and engagement within the European Union and multilateral cooperation based on a rule-based international system and international law. Sweden and other Nordic countries, NATO and the United States are important partners. Finland assumes its responsibility for the stability and security of our neighbourhood. Important stone feet here are their own credible defence capability and good governance and social confidence. They will also help us to ensure that we can make our own decisions and interpretations. Mr President! The values are the anchor of foreign and security policy. The value of Finland’s foreign and security policy is central to promoting human rights, the rule of law, democracy, peace, freedom, equality and equality in all international activities. These values are also binding on us as part of a community of democratic countries, which hopefully will be strengthened and expanded as the United States returns to a more active and constructive role on the world stage. Based on values, the report also states that Finland's foreign and security policy is based on human rights. It means an impact assessment of human rights in all foreign and security policy activities. This is necessary because the objective of a stable and secure world can only be built in a sustainable way, respecting human rights and promoting equality. At the same time, the defence and development of the principles of a rule-based international system and international law are all the more important to curb confrontation and power policy. The importance of values is also underlined by the fact that liberal democracy is now being defiantly challenged both from outside and from within by authoritarian regimes, demagogues and extremists who despise fundamental rights and democracy and its institutions. In this time, freedom, democracy and human rights need courageous defenders, and that is what this report places Finland, as it should be. Mr President! A safe, stable and predictable world is in the interests of Finland and Finland. It is a world that must be built with determination and responsibility for climate change, natural disaster and other global challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u17	Mr President! Foreign and security policy must be long-term and predictable. The most important basis for Finland is military non-alignment. It is guaranteed by its own, credible and independent defence. Finland is and will always be a border country. It may be a threat, but it may also be an opportunity. In the fight against threats, but also in the exploitation of opportunities, national margins must be maintained — in relation to individual countries, Russia and the United States, as well as to the European Union and NATO. In the building of peace and mediation, Finland, which is militarily non-aligned, must play a stronger role than it would otherwise be. Peace mediation has been highlighted more clearly in the report and rightly so. The Parliamentary Group of the Left Alliance considers two sentences to be the main entries in the report. First of all, ‘the use of Finland’s territory for hateful purposes by In other words, Finland does not allow its territory to be used for hostile purposes against other countries. Secondly, ‘The important objective of Finland’s foreign and security policy is to prevent armed conflicts and the emergence of situations In fact, the formulation of the last sentence should be worded in such a way that the main objective is to prevent Finland from entering into a military conflict. The description of the operating environment of the report highlights the operating environment marked by a major power competition. Russia, the United States and China always guarded its own interests. Several points in the report state that the increased presence of NATO in many areas will stabilise the situation. You might as well say that it is destabilising. The accumulation of military force and the armaments spiral increase tensions both in the Baltic Sea and in the Arctic. More than one operator is involved in the equipment. The role of the Arctic Council must be strengthened, and it must be kept as a genuine body of cooperation and outside the realms of power. The Arctic region is also of particular importance to Finland. Mr President! For militarily non-aligned countries, Finland and Sweden, cooperation is also natural in the field of defence. The report therefore highlights the importance of cooperation between Finland and Sweden. The phrase ‘cooperationisimplemented without any restrictions’(but does not mean that Finland will give up its national examination in cooperation). Sweden makes its own decisions, Finland makes its own decisions. Recently, Finland adopted a tripartite declaration of intent with Sweden and Norway. The Prime Minister of Norway already announced in April the objective of concluding an agreement with Finland and Sweden on the transit of military material and military personnel during peace and conflict. This is not the line Finland has taken, nor should it be. We still have a very bitter memory of the previous transit agreement in the north. In defence procurements, including HX procurement, it is appropriate to look after the Nordic option. After all, the biggest procurement decision in Finland's history also has a strong foreign policy significance, and that is a strong commitment. The Government Programme states that Finland will not export weapons to warring countries or countries that trample on human rights. The objective has not been achieved. Furthermore, weapons must not be bought in warring countries or in countries that trample on human rights. Mr President! The change of President of the United States is likely to bring the country back to the Paris climate agreement. I hope that the United States will also want to strengthen the role of the UN. The future President of the United States, Joe Biden, has long spoken of the League of Democratic States, which would be led by the United States. I think it is appropriate to ask what the creation of such a parallel structure would mean for the UN. The UN system should not be undermined, but rather strengthened. Mr President! The report has taken wider account of the concept of wide-ranging security at both national and international level. Refugees, pandemics, dwindling natural resources, the functioning of information systems and climate change are a serious challenge for all countries in the world. These challenges will not be overcome by military force or military alliances. For my part, I would like to thank the chairman of the monitoring group and the members of the monitoring group for their good cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u18	Irade the Talman! Som flera av oss redan har constaterat debaterar vi utrikes- och säkerhetspolitiken i ett mycket intressant världspolitiskt läge. Biden-Harrisharvunnitdetamerkanskavaletochförväntningarnapåattnyavindarskablåsaidetinternternationellasamarbeteras,heltberätgat,stora. Det kunns faktiskt litetta att andas nu. Tron på mänskligheten, och det respektfulla samtalet — en gnista av hopp — syns redan på den politiska himlen. Utrikesminister Haavistos referens till Bilkonstnären Magnus Enckell kan vi inte you give an innerligt hålla med om. Finland kan inte isolera sig.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u19	Mr President! The Christian Democratic Parliament will sign up to the main principles of the report, a broad consensus to safeguard our country's territorial integrity and independence, and to strengthen security and prosperity and the international position of our country in both the UN, the EU, NATO and bilateral relations. The emphasis on the report shows the ideological agenda of the government. Important climate and environmental issues as such are mentioned almost a hundred times. The main issue itself, Finland's foreign and security policy and its objectives, threatens to be somewhat overshadowed. The threat of terrorism is given a rather small section in relation to its gravity. There are several hundred target persons in our country in the fight against terrorism, and with the government's help, more people have been brought from the Al-Hol camp with connections to terrorist activities. The latest attacks in Europe have hit the heart of our values. Attacks have been directed at churches and synagogues, where refuge has traditionally been sought. This threat must also be taken seriously in Finland. Turkey's statements after the terrorist attacks represent a change of attitude and predict a rise in radical Islam. Turkey's withdrawal from European values and its development into an authoritarian superpower will have a significant impact on security in Europe and the neighbouring regions. This has already been reflected in the Nagorno-Karabakh crisis, with Turkey acting openly against Armenia. China's trade policy has become a powerful part of international security policy. Of course, a trade war is better than a military conflict, but the consequences could be massive. Thanks to its economic success, China is also growing stronger militarily. The impact of the interest-rate crisis on international policy and the economy should be taken into account. The fight against cross-border health threats, in particular pandemics, requires provision for security of supply for medicines, supplies, food and energy. Finnish agriculture is not mentioned in the report, but we see it as a key tool for preparedness. Health safety will also be promoted through grass-roots development cooperation to prevent crises and support the most fragile countries. Finland is seeking a seat in the UN Human Rights Council. At present the members include Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bahrain, who themselves have a long way to go to implement human rights. Finland must also have the courage to raise the human rights problems of the countries that decide to join the Council. Finland's efforts to increase its influence in international communities require consistency. In September, Finland voted alongside Saudi Arabia and Iran in favour of resolution at the UN Economic and Social Council, which unilaterally criticised Israel for violating women's rights. This is extraordinary, because Ecosoc has not criticised any other country besides Israel in its resolution this year. The USA, Australia and Canada voted against, Germany abstained. The same imbalance is repeated in other UN institutions, including the General Assembly committees and the Human Rights Council, where non-democratic countries, at their worst, have a numerical majority. Russia's actions in the illegal takeover of Crimea, the treatment of its internal opposition and the military tensions in the Baltic Sea region reflect the instability of the security situation in our neighbouring regions. The situation in Belarus is not discussed at all in the report. Hundreds of citizens who took part in demonstrations have been arrested. The opposition leaders sit in prisons or have been forced to flee the country. It is a shame that in the heart of Europe, 500 kilometres from our borders, it is possible to trample human rights and freedom of speech, religion and political action so flagrantly. This should not be silent, but should be supported individually and jointly by the democratic development of Belarus, civil society and media freedom. Sweden's weight in the report has justifiably increased. We still need deeper and wider cooperation with Sweden in the current uncertain operating environment. It makes sense to further intensify security cooperation, particularly in the fight against hybrid threats, with other Nordic and Baltic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u20	Mr President, ärade talman! Foreign policy requires long-term and understanding. The Government will continue on the lines of the previous government by icing the report with world cures. It is essential to see the place in Finland as part of the West and what it means and what it requires. Finland is a partner in the peace of NATO and is responsible for the defence of its own region. For this to be possible, training activities and cooperation and procurement are needed. Finland has consistently maintained its margin of manoeuvre. It should not be reduced by its own limits. The war in Georgia 2008 and the forced annexation of Crimea to Russia 2014 continue to have a major impact on our security situation. Belarus is a new example of Russia looking to its interests without hesitation. That is something we must take into account. Finland carries out fighter procurements. They need to be done on a professional basis, and the military knows best what it needs. A good argument, then a decision as unanimous as possible, without compromising the truth. Cyber and hybrid threats must be taken seriously. It is therefore important to commit F-Secure and similar parties to defence. This is what I think is being done and treated. Finland has acted more as a doctor than a judge, and that makes sense. We have knowledge and skills, as well as the opportunity to provide services for world security, whether nuclear weapons or health. Russia is a neighbour and we are also in bilateral contact. Russia knows we're part of the West. There must be no confusion about this. The EU's common foreign and security policy, with its assistance clauses, is quite clear in this report. I think the President of the Republic helped write the passage. In some places, the difference between the previous government is reflected in these very details. The government is talking about climate change and human rights. Sure, good and necessary observations, as long as the hard safety is not forgotten. The balance between these things is pretty good. Britain and its intelligence resources are invaluable to the EU countries. Brexit must not compromise them. The presence of the United States in Europe will increase stability, and I do not believe that this will change anything in Joe Biden's era. Mr President, ärade talman! Finland is involved in international crisis management, including in Afghanistan and Lebanon. That's good. Consideration must be given to the extent to which we want to go to Africa, mainly as a caretaker of the French backyards. I'm sure there'll be requests. Cooperation between Finland and Sweden is important and essential. The Baltic Sea is our sea not only through the environment but also through defence, and it is absolutely essential. Estonia is a brotherhood. Let's remember that more than just in the speeches. The Defence Forces must be guaranteed proper equipment and good equipment and reasonable social benefits for the garrison. Without the will to defend the country, Finland cannot be defended.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u21	And now, before we enter the debate, the answers of the ministers. — Minister Haavisto, 3 minutes. You can talk about your place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u22	Mr President! First of all, thank the parliamentary groups and the speakers. I interpreted it as a rather positive response. Of course, there are still a number of things that will be clarified in the parliamentary procedure. I will make a few points in my own speech. The importance of activity was well highlighted by the representative of the Court of Justice and I would like to underline the creation of a mediation centre, which was also mentioned in Mr Mustajärvi's speech. So we have also been active in the direction of mediation. Representative Packalén made a good point on these cyber, cyber security, hybrid issues. I personally do not see them as any sort of frosting, but as new security issues, on which a strong position must be taken. But perhaps I would have debated a little about the way in which we deal with the terrorist threat here. Firstly, there is going to be a separate internal security report, which will certainly take a domestic perspective, but we are in Afghanistan, we are in Iraq, we have joined the core group of the coalition against ISIS under Prime Minister Sanna Marin – we are therefore playing a very important role in the fight against international terrorism. In his speech, Mr Savola raised the issue of security of supply, resilience to crisis in an excellent way. Thank you for highlighting them. The climate was highlighted in many different speeches. In this international cooperation, however, for example in the area of arms control negotiations, Mrs Kanerva has raised a certain degree of optimism. The fact that the New Start tour in Helsinki — and I can wait for it to continue — was a very important sign that the major powers still want to negotiate on these issues. Mr Harjanne underlined the increase in authoritarian regimes and the threat it poses to the world order, and I think we should talk more about it here too. Mr Mustajärvi raised the issue of mediation, but also the importance of the Arctic, which has also been taken into account in this report. And I believe that the role of the United States in this Arctic cooperation may be further emphasised. Russia is becoming a presidency of the Arctic Council, and I believe that the new US policy will also bring climate issues more strongly into this Arctic cooperation. Representative Biaudet raised very fake news questions, media climate and this type of questions. And Mr Räsänen raised these issues of terrorism, internal security issues, but also Belarus. Finland has been very active in launching the OSCE Moscow Mechanism. That is not really the point of this report, but we have been one of the countries that has been active in this area. And thank you also to Mr Harkimo for these comments. Above all, I would like to highlight the importance of this British Brexit, that it should not break our cooperation on security with Britain. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u23	Mr President! I would like to thank Parliament for the debate so far. The current Government report on foreign and security policy was discussed in good cooperation between the President of the Republic and the Government and there is full agreement on its content. The report was prepared in close consultation with the Parliamentary Monitoring Group set up by Parliament. As broad a national consensus as possible on the basic line of foreign and security policy is a prerequisite for Finland's success. The later statement of the Parliament, together with the report, defines Finland's foreign and security policy. During the spring period, the Parliament will receive a Government defence policy report, the preparation of which will follow the same well-known procedure. Issues concerning the content of the Defence Policy Report will be discussed within the Government and with the President of the Republic shortly. The Government is also preparing an internal security report and many other guiding documents that will be submitted in due course to Parliament. The EU report will outline EU policy in a comprehensive way. Mr President! Finland’s foreign and security policy is essential for its long-term sustainability, stability and predictability. This is also the guiding principle of the present report, which has been followed by new emphasis in accordance with the Government Programme. The human rights-based nature of foreign policy is an important example of stronger priorities. This is reflected, for example, in our candidacy to the UN Human Rights Council, in our work on women's and girls' rights and status, and in our readiness to take a stand when rights and the universal binding nature of human rights are violated. The multilateral system needs pioneering to support it. Finland’s climate policy is a timely message to the world in a situation where, following the elections in the United States, there is a new opportunity for joint efforts. Responding to health threats is another timely example of the need to reform the system. We want to be an active player on a multilateral scale. Mr President! The European Union is the main reference framework, channel of influence and the security community for Finland's external relations. There is a clearer focus on developing and solidarity in foreign and security policy. At the same time, we want to take a special relationship with Sweden to a new level, without predefined restrictions. The basic messages of the report are appropriate for our time. The tightening up of the major power race will require a better defence of the European Union as a whole. I look forward to this good debate, which has been opened today, with great interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u24	And now those representatives who want to take part in this debate, please stand up and press the V button. — Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u25	Mr President! The red thread of Finland's foreign and security policy policy is and must always be the safeguarding of Finland's independence and actions of national interest. Security in Finland has been built on the foundation of skilled diplomacy, credible defence and national treaties. If, in some circumstances, this were not enough, the options for national decision-making and freedom of action should be given greater consideration. For example: would it be a good idea to consider the extent to which we are bound by international agreements in a situation where national interests are threatened? This was raised in border issues in 2015. At the time of the crisis, the road map to defend the safety of Finland must be crystal clear in all situations, and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u26	Mr. Speaker! When you listen to these group speeches, of course they show different priorities and different perspectives. But I'm not worried about that. I would be more concerned if there were no such different views. They were also examined in the monitoring group and certainly in the committee, and that is why I am not going to open these now, but what is essential and valuable is that we are able to come to a common vision that strengthens the security of Finland from these different perspectives. It has been a valuable resource for us, and I want us to stick to this in this parliamentary debate as well. There is perhaps one thing about this speech by Mr Niiko: yes, international agreements and respect for them are at the heart of a small country such as Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, when you make these speeches, make sure that you are in your own place. — The representative, Mrs Packalén, sets an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u31	Mr President! Mr Haavisto, you asked what else we could do to combat the threat of terrorism. It is true that we have been in the coalition against terrorism, both in Afghanistan and in Iraq. These things are, of course, positive and important. However, we should also discuss difficult issues, such as the security threat of bringing Isis families to Finland. I would like to ask the Minister of State: will such measures increase the security of Finland, or will they reduce it? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u32	Mr President! Thank you also for my part not only to the government for this work, but also to the parliamentary groups, although the groups have a few different priorities, for this great common line, which, in my opinion, also seemed to come out of the group speeches. It is certainly important that in Finland the consensus on tough core issues in foreign and security policy has been widely shared in parliamentary terms. Of course, I would also like to thank the government for the way in which this has been updated, so that perhaps the issues of a softer security policy, climate and human rights, are more visible here. Of course, they have also been on display in the past. During the last parliamentary term, the Nordic Prime Ministers took the initiative of the Nordic countries as the most integrated region in the world, and it has also been mentioned in this report. But what's the next step? How do we achieve the goal that this coalition of five Nordic countries can really be the most integrated in the world? Is the Prime Ministers coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u33	Mr President! When I was running out of time, I would now like to say thank you to all those involved in the preparation. Although I'm part of the group, fortunately, it was even more sharp and clever. [Laughter — Hustle]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u34	Mr President! This morning, I was surprised when I opened the afternoon paper. There the Foreign Minister explained how value-basedism avoids becoming involved in Russia. When you look at what happened last season and has happened this season: During the last period nine bilateral declarations of intent were made with different countries in relation to defence, one trilateral declaration of intent, Finland, Sweden, the United States, this period one trilateral declaration, Finland, Sweden, NATO Norway. Finland is involved in the military mobility project both in the European Union and in NATO. There has been a NATO host country agreement, and there are more than 80 international military exercises every year, especially with NATO countries. After this list, do you still claim that there is a real threat in Finland that Finland will slip into Russia's interest?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u35	Ledamot Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u36	Mr President! On the other hand, I would like to thank Mr Haavisto for his time in this debate. I think that's part of the reason why there was actually an open dialogue climate where a lot of common ground was found. I think it is historic that our report and our foreign and security policy are now defined as human rights-based. I think it comes from this understanding that our success recipe in the Nordic countries for our well-being is based on human rights, gender equality and so on, but also on the importance of emphasising humanity, human values in all cooperation, especially when it comes to difficult and conflicts and seeking peace and conflict solutions. International agreements are the anchor to which we are then attached when it seems difficult to be selfish.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u37	Mr President! I hope that you, Minister Haavisto, will respond to the observation I made in my speech and to the question of these recent decisions taken by the UN institutions, which have now been taken several times in November, in which Finland has, in various ways, unilaterally condemned Israel for, among other things, these women's rights, or, for example, the very sensitive question of the appointment of the Temple Mountain, which in one decision has only been designated by the Islamic name Haram al-Sharaff, which has raised the question of equal treatment for the countries of the Middle East. Then, President, I would like to ask you again: when the report states here that this International Criminal Court should be condemning Isis terrorists,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u38	Mr President! Once this report has been prepared on a broad basis, it is also valuable to note that this debate, which is taking place in this House, is very private on a large scale. However, a small country cannot afford to have a strong internal debate on key foreign and security policy issues. What is at the heart of that report and also at the heart of this debate is this broad concept of security that is behind it. There are three key features: Security is indivisible, so it is not done at anyone's expense. Another feature is, of course, that security threats are not only military, starting with environmental crises, uncontrolled migrations, such as pandemics, and they also require non-military means to manage them. And the third aspect, of course, is that security is not just a state of security, but a security for citizens, people, and it is in favour of this human rights-based security system. Of course there are military crises and threats,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u39	Mr. Speaker! The most important thing for Finns is the safety of Finns. Today, Islamist terrorist attacks in Europe recently, and also the immigrant gangs formed here in Helsinki, are examples of the impact of a failed immigration policy on security. Finland is repeating Sweden's mistakes. However, the government seems to be working towards the situation in Sweden, because you have helped Al-Hol terrorists to return to Finland, flew immigrants from Greece in the midst of a corona crisis, and you have increased the quota of refugees. Of course, the left-wing government has acted with the support of the representatives of the city centre. I would ask the Minister: Would it be more effective to tackle the problems of Finland's immigration policy in a tight line here in Finland, or is it the right solution to shovel more and more money abroad?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u40	Mr President! Unfortunately, the global confrontation and the increased power policy are true. Now, however, the result of the presidential election of one of the key players, the United States, may even lead to more predictability and less confrontation with Europe. The EU may even become an important partner. Perhaps after 20 January, even the European steel industry will no longer be a national threat. However, Finnish companies play an important role in the US market, but they also play an important role in China when they want to trade there, and now, in some speculations, they are predicting the risk of such a triangle, the European Union, the United States and China, and even predict that Biden may demand a partnership from the European Union in the fight against China.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u41	Mr President! The most important task of foreign policy is to ensure in every direction that we will never again face a military conflict. Our main insurance policy is our own defence, which will then be specified in the defence policy report after that. The fact is, however, that the world has become tougher in our neighborhood. Then we should turn our attention to where our friends are if bad weather occurs — if we need them. The report is very clear: Sweden, Norway, the United States, the European Union, including NATO. In fact, Mr Mustajärvi, in his own speech, showed the characteristics of how this has strengthened our own defence and foreign and security policy thinking, but, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence, how do these appear in our international policy in practice at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u42	Mr President! Finland is a small country that represents great values in the world, such as democracy, equality, freedom of expression, the rights of minorities. Unfortunately, however, these values are increasingly being challenged in the world. That is why it is particularly important for us to emphasise the importance of a rule-based international system, respect for its obligations and the universality and binding nature of human rights. A stronger commitment to human rights in all activities of our own foreign policy is an important act and a signal in this time. We recognise interdependence, which requires common responses to common challenges such as climate change, the loss of biodiversity, increased inequality and the eradication of poverty. We are strongly committed to both the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Climate Agreement. Global responsibility helps build peace and creates stability and security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u43	Mr President! As a small country, it is particularly important for Finland that the rule-based approach is adhered to throughout the world. Respect for international agreements, strengthening the role of the UN, strengthening the role of UN organisations — these are very important for countries such as Finland. Hopefully, after the outcome of the presidential election, the United States will be more strongly returning to the UN family and to this international cooperation, including in other respects than the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. If you think of Finland's foreign policy, human rights are an issue that must always be raised and which must always be an integral part of foreign policy. Human rights are being violated not only in China towards the Uighurs, in Saudi Arabia or Iran, but much closer: Turkey and Belarus. Minsk is closer to Parliament than Rovaniemi. Mr President! As a militarily non-aligned country, Finland can act as a mediator of conflicts,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u44	Mr President! With regard to its objectives and priorities, the Government's report on foreign and security policy responds well to the most important aspect of strengthening Finland's security - strengthening national security and the security of its citizens. This is also supported by the President of the Republic's thinking through four pillars: credible self-defence, Western partnerships, good relations with Russia and multilateral cooperation with the United Nations. However, when the report is foreign and security policy, it is quite minor in tone. Maybe you could call it a sulker's report. It comes to a large extent from the fact that many threats are described here — but these threats should not be taken when given as a predictor of the future, but so that Finland has the opportunity to influence the fight against these threats. And I hope so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u45	Mr President! During his period, the U.S. president, Trump, who was receding with these prospects, confused many of the customary arrangements. One example is that he required the European NATO Member States to take greater responsibility for their own military security and its financing. I believe that this criticism was not only perfectly justified from the point of view of the American taxpayer, but also healthy for Europe itself, even though it caused a lot of fuss in the European countries of NATO, which were used to free travel, Germany as perhaps the best example. Of course, Europe's independent defence capability also plays an important role in Finland's security environment. I would like to ask: does the Minister see the risk that this ostentatious movement in Europe, which has been seen, will now be loosened and we will again be confident that the Americans will take care of and pay? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u46	Let us take Mr Pelkonen, and then the ministers will be able to answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u47	Mr President! If it was NATO, I'd go on with it. As Mr Kanerva has already wisely said, we believe that NATO membership would increase Finland's security. NATO's activities will stabilise the security of both Europe and Finland's neighbouring regions, and our partnership with NATO must be fostered. We very much hope that the policy of open NATO doors will continue. In this context, I would like to ask: how does the government intend to deepen cooperation with NATO in order to promote security in the Baltic Sea region? And the second point that I would like to raise more generally is that when uncertainty, confrontation and power politics are very strong trends of our time, would it be possible for Parliament to hold a broader debate on Finland's foreign and security policy more than once in the parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u48	And now at least Ministers Kaikkonen, Skinner and Haavisto — and also Marin — have asked to speak. — Let's start with Kaikkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u49	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you to Parliament for a good debate. A few comments: Representative Kanerva brought up the teachings of this pandemic. Indeed, in the spring it was seen that when both protective equipment and masks were missing, they were quite difficult to obtain from the world. One lesson is precisely this security of supply and sufficient self-sufficiency. It also applies to traditional military security. If there is a military crisis — that is what we are trying to avoid, of course, but if it does — then it is too late to leave the world asking questions about military equipment. These things have to be in order already in good weather. First of all, I would like to make a comment to Mr Kari, who said that this report would be a little minor. Well, I'm afraid it is. You said it was a sulking report. I would say that this is rather a realistic report, which is, unfortunately, quite a minor victory at the moment. But on this point I agree with you that Finland can at least contribute a little to this environment, and of course we must do so. And yet, representatives of Mustajärvi and Savola, I would say to you that it is of course important that the pandemic and climate change have now been addressed, and they are our common challenges, and they must be fought against, but they have not changed the Finnish security policy framework in any way. We are still in the same place so that, unfortunately, we still have these traditional security tensions. And that is why we are taking care of our own defence, we are investing in it, and we have intensified our cooperation with other Western countries. We believe that this will increase stability and security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u50	Mr President! The representative of Estonia was quite right to date that triangle — or, as I recall, you used the term ‘trimiodama ’ — between Europe, China and the United States, and in this respect you certainly referred to economic external relations and trade policy. And it goes without saying that for a long time the eyes have turned to Europe itself, how united Europe is, how strong Europe is together. And, as has been said here today, the Brexit and the British departure are not a good thing in themselves, quite the contrary. Trade will then slow down, bureaucracy will increase and trade will increase. The core issue is, of course, this development in the relationship between the United States and China, but surely we have a fairly common assessment that, in the near future, trade policy and trade can hardly be expected to be revolutionary. But perhaps this situation in Europe, which you also referred to: yes, perhaps if you call it three words, it could be called the goal of an open, strategic autonomy as a whole, and now, of course, the question is how these three words are understood. Transparency is certainly a matter of course for all of us. We are in favour of free trade, we are in favour of a rule-based system. Strategicity in itself means unity, ambition. But then, of course, there will be the question of autonomy, which means that we ourselves can make decisions, policies as Europe, be the largest free trade area in the world and have a genuine influence, and here we come to the heart of how to move forward with China. There is a slight positive tone — at least by the German Presidency — that the European Union and China can move forward on certain issues, but in the same way the positive agenda with the United States is that even in small steps
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u51	Mr President! I'll answer some questions. Perhaps even further to Mr Kanerva's reflection on what the pandemic has taught us: yes, it certainly has taught us in the EU that we need a health union in addition to everything we already have, more cooperation in health matters, and it has taught us that the UN must not be paralysed in such situations. Let us hope that the Presidential elections in the United States will have an impact on this. The World Health Organisation plays a crucial role in the development and distribution of the vaccine and thus away. Representative Packalén and others who asked about these Finnish children in Syria: it acts on a human rights basis, in the name of children's rights, in the name of the rights of Finnish citizens. It's been handled here several times.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u54	Mr President! I will answer Mrs Kulmun's question about Nordic cooperation and strengthening it and the next steps that we could take together. Finland will be the President of the Nordic Council of Ministers next year, and in connection with the Nordic Council of Ministers, I presented the Finnish Presidency programme and the new openings there. They relate in particular to preparedness and security of supply. So, in this area, we would have a lot of things that we could do together. And Finland has good experience of this and is happy to work with partner countries, with the Nordic countries, to take these issues forward. And just as Minister Kaikkonen, I myself would describe the same. If a word could be used to describe this Finnish foreign and security policy report and perhaps a longer-term approach, then it is precisely ‘realism’. ‘Stability’ and ‘realism’ — are the words that I myself would use.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u55	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u56	Mr President! If you look at this development of the foreign and security policy report in a somewhat longer time perspective, it can be seen that the focus in this direction of Finland is development policy, climate policy, human rights policy. And then, if you look at how this new Commission has aligned its future mandate at European Union level, you will find the same priorities there. So in that sense, this common line has been opened. And now, after the presidential elections in the United States, it would appear that we have a window of opportunity for a few months, in which we should then prepare the line of action to get the United States to join the same line of action on these same broad security issues worldwide, but also to join in all the international organisations and agreements that can help to pursue this common goal. That is what I am encouraging the government to think together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u57	Mr President! Finland appreciates international institutions and emphasises the UN. I hope, however, that the government has not overlooked the problems involved. In practice, as we know, China has become one of the great political powers and, for example, it continues to receive support from developing countries, for example, for its own authoritarian and very worrying line with regard to human rights. Mostly it does this with money, just like a proper imperialist should. On the other hand, as has already been mentioned here, for example, the members of the Human Rights Council continue to include countries that are as negative as possible about human rights, such as Somalia, Saudi Arabia, China, Libya, Russia, Afghanistan. Although human rights and global institutions are important to Finland, I would like to see political and interests-related facts taken into account here as well. We need political realism as a small country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u58	Mr President! Realism, stability, as the Prime Minister said — it is easy to agree with that line, and it is good that we can work together in this Chamber to discuss matters. We will take care of Finland's security ourselves, but we will never again be alone, as Mr Kanerva well said. In this respect, it is absolutely essential — and I believe that the vast majority of the House agrees — that Finland is an integral part of the Western Community, the Western Community, the Western Security Community. In this respect, we wondered a little about why this report does not mention the Western security community, specifically the Western Hemisphere, the Western Alliance, you to which we identify. But aside from the words, the most important thing is action. We know that now a new page in history is opening up in the United States, and I would like to ask the government how you intend to make practical use of the new orientation of the Biden regime for European cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u59	Mr President! As has been said, Finland represents a policy of stability and continuity in its foreign policy. However, nothing around us represents that line at the moment. The crises are becoming more complex and phenomena are changing rapidly — perhaps as an example of the role of Parliament already mentioned in this Chamber and the way in which we parliamentarians could engage in a more active foreign policy debate. It is true that the government and the President of the Republic have been credited here and have brought this report, a fine report, but you will see that when the world changes quickly, parliaments too must play a stronger role together with the committees and also with the individual representatives. We need to be able to step up cooperation between parliaments and parliamentarians. We are already doing this with the Nordic countries, at EU level. We should also be able to do this in the Baltic countries, in the direction of the USA, and one question is Russia. Our spiritual wall with that eastern neighbour has grown very big, and practically nothing but practical cooperation
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u60	Mr President! It is very welcome that the human rights-based approach in this report should become a cross-cutting principle in Finland's foreign and security policy. One fundamental part of human rights and also an important block in the building of security, peace and sustainable development is sexual rights. As important as sexual rights and reproductive health are, the promotion of them is not a big deal, and that is precisely why countries such as Finland are needed, who are able to defend these things even when it is difficult, come forward when power politics and changes in power relationships threaten to deprive important organisations of funding and continue to work consistently and rigorously for the rights of girls and women. Although our foreign policy policy has been this for a long time, we have also been able to fit in the way of the trip, and I would therefore particularly like to thank and emphasise the importance of the confidence of girls and women around the world that Finland is working for these rights. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u61	President! The report on foreign and security policy ignores perhaps the most important acquisition of new multi-functional fighters in determining the Finnish line. By accepting the order mandate of EUR 10 billion of the HX project, Parliament is increasingly integrating Finland into US policy. The generals' favorite in the race is clear, but the land of the machines is still sidelined. A huge amount of material is essential for Finland's economy, and it is the most appropriate use of weaponry to attack, but which does not pose the most obvious threat, the emerging missiles, can be combated. The relationship between Finland and the United States has intensified since the beginning of the 1990s. The soldiers have led, the parliament has been ignored. The starting point was the acquisition of the Hornet 92. The HX project has further deepened the relationship. The President of the Republic also referred to this fact at his Biden briefing this weekend.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u62	Mr President! This is a good report, however, in which I myself would like to draw attention to one point which I do not think was enough. It is a common defence within the EU, in which Finland should be more involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u65	Mr President! Cyber and network security and hybrid influence may already seem to be a fashion phenomenon. This is being ground up and talked about all the time, but the person who signed it feels that we do not really understand yet how serious the threat is. There has also been a debate on whether Russia affected the elections in the United States, the previous presidential elections. The debate is very superficial and focused on inter-state influence. Let us not forget, however, that there are other major players than the state. Social media giants are not necessarily guided by a mere goodwill in election advertising, closing different Facebook accounts, other types of activity, but by money and violation of social peace and so forth. It is therefore a good thing that this whole has been included in this report and given sufficient weight to it. We Finns must not be too naive
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u66	Mr President! Although the world and Finland face challenges such as climate change and pandemics, traditional security must also be remembered. President Trump lost the presidential election, but his support and the demographic development of the United States suggest that in the future the interest of the United States will be less and less in Europe. This underlines the development and strengthening of the EU's security and defence policy. On the left side of the hall, there are sometimes warnings of militarisation of the EU. I am in favour of militarisation of the EU if it means that the European Union bears increased responsibility for its own security, and now I am referring specifically to traditional security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u67	Mr President! Our country's foreign policy has been based on Finnish values, including equality, justice and respect for minorities. We will act and speak on international relations in accordance with these common values. Finland's foreign policy is led by the President of the Republic in cooperation with the Government. However, significant foreign policy power is also exercised by the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Finnish Parliament. Foreign policy is not only a policy but also the way in which this line is promoted. In an interview with Yle, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has described the behaviour of US President Donald Trump as pleasant and well-mannered. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: has the Finnish foreign policy line changed so that chauvinism, the barking of minorities and the abuse of others are considered acceptable and in a good way arrogant?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u68	Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, represented by Mika Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u69	Mr President! It is good that the centre is now raising issues that can also be discussed in this Chamber. I am sure that you have read the comments made by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in his capacity as a Member of Parliament. It is a different matter when the chairman makes comments on the Committee's positions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u75	Mr President! It is certainly obvious now in 2020 why health safety must be part of our broad security thinking. Global pandemics pose a major threat to the functioning of society as a whole, as we have seen in concrete terms this year. In health safety, there is also more stable, multi-disciplinary cooperation than is necessary. The current pandemic originated in China, but listening to experts, it is also wise to admit that the same could have happened or could have happened elsewhere. This therefore demonstrates the need for international cooperation. No country is safe from pandemics — we need each other’s support here. The loss of biodiversity, global warming and our unsustainable use of animal-creating conditions, and thus increasing risks to global pandemics, must be international.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u76	Mr President! Finland is and remains a militarily non-aligned country with its own credible and independent defence system. Finland's role in international peace-keeping has been long-term and of high quality, and it is important that Finland is determined to contribute, for example, to strengthening the role of the UN in conflict prevention and resolution. Eradication of poverty and inequality while promoting the realisation of human rights and equality worldwide is perhaps the most effective and most important peace-keeping work that Finland must also carry out in all its activities. Mr President! As we are well aware, peace is not built by arms or confrontation, but by international agreements and the promotion of human rights. I would ask: now that the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons is coming into force in January 2021, should Finland not be included in this important agreement?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u77	Mr President! We have a good report on foreign and security policy. It has two legs: a tough foreign and security policy and then this broader concept of security. I would like to emphasise these two equally — we need both at the moment. Both should be based on risk analysis. Risk analysis generally uses two dimensions: how impressive, in a negative sense, a bad thing is when a risk comes true, and how likely it is. In this way, we will be able to assess what we should be primarily prepared for and what measures should be taken. Security of supply, extreme weather events related to climate change, public health, international health threats, have been raised here. My own assessment is that the next international health threat is linked to animal diseases, not necessarily to human diseases, but it may jeopardise our food security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u78	Mr President! According to Statistics Finland, 439 robberies were committed in Finland in 20190 to 20 years of age, while the proportion of foreign nationals was 24.2 per cent. I would like to ask you, Minister, about the threat of security - there are also migratory flows: what are you doing about this in order to preserve the security of Finland? For health safety, there is no need for weapons or armies when the world is on its knees. Cyber threats, viruses — coronavirus epidemic as one example, more than one million deaths, more than 33 million infections are September figures. What about antibiotic resistance? I would like it to be linked to a very large part of the Agenda 2030 debate, among other things. Antibiotic resistance is said to be a major threat like climate change. However, climate change is not responsible for this, but for the excessive use of antibiotics in the world, both in animals and in humans. In what way can we influence it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u79	Mr President! It is great that this report takes very many threats into account. There is also emphasis on the resilience of the crisis. On page 29, it is stated that ‘Crisis resilience is strengthened by providing for a wide range of threats to society’s well-being and security. We are talking here about hybrid influence, the impact of climate change, human and natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics — as has been said here. Attention will also be paid here to ensuring security of supply in all circumstances, which is an important part of the resilience of the crisis, and will be maintained and developed in the light of identified development needs. However, during these years I have noticed that there is no parliamentary debate on the objectives and means of national security of supply and that Parliament is not involved in the preparation of this security of supply paper, which is usually done every few years, nor in its assessment. I believe that in future a parliamentary report on security of supply policy should be drawn up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u80	Mr. Speaker! As has been pointed out in the debate, security is more than just maintaining military capability. Over the past year, we have faced a sudden global health crisis. Preventing and preparing similar situations requires, for example, increasing security of supply and food security issues. In recent years, the public debate has shown that, at least in relation to our citizens, there has been a blurry understanding of the importance of the state providing its citizens with food under all circumstances — even when food and food cannot be imported from abroad. My question to the government is: how has the corona crisis affected the Government's view of the importance of securing domestic food production?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u81	Mr President! The Government's report is characterised by continuity: continuity, predictability and long-term sustainability of Finland's foreign policy as a whole. It is important that Finland forms a foreign and security policy from its own point of view, where, of course, it is at the heart of strengthening Finland’s position, safeguarding independence — and here, for a small country, multilateral cooperation, a rule-based world system, if any, is in the interests of a small state. And it is also very important that this wide-ranging security is strongly highlighted here. If we now look at the threats that destabilise and may pose risks to safety, then there will be health threats, climate change and then global inequality. And these threats and problems will not be solved by power politics or armed security. Therefore, now that Joe Biden is becoming President of the United States in America, it would be a blue moment, and I hope that Finland will be active in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u82	Mr President! It has been stated in the report that Finland cannot be an outsider as part of the EU if the safety of a country is threatened. Turkey, which is now becoming increasingly radical, has repeatedly threatened Greece with land, sea and air; it is turning the churches of Hagia Sofia and Khora into mosques; it insults those heads of state who react to Islamic terror. In this situation, Finland should stand among those who defend Western democracy, equality, freedom of expression and freedom of expression. These values are completely undivided, and especially now we must be careful not to give the devil a little finger. How does Finland participate in this issue at the EU tables?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u83	Mr President! There is a very broad consensus in this Chamber that Finland should play its part in securing as many international arenas as possible that do not exclude each other but complement each other. In recent years, we have seen growing instability, at least at rhetorical level, in the transatlantic relationship — which will probably change now as a result of the change of presidency — and, on the other hand, within the European Union, where one Member State of the Union has already decided to leave and there are others who are, at least, in pain of cooperation with the Union. In this field, one of our most stable action arenas has been the Nordic context. Last year, the Nordic Council drew up its own overall security strategy, which identified the pandemics as one of the main risk areas before the corona. In the same strategy, it was also suggested that: The Nordic Council of Ministers should also be composed of ministers for preparedness,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u84	Mr President! In time, Urho Kekkonen, the President of the then republic, wisely said that Finland’s position in international activities is more of a doctor’s activity than a judge’s, and it is worth keeping it in mind at all times.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u87	Mr President! Social peace is being built together. By doing so, each of us can either build up that social trust and strengthen or undermine the confidence in democracy. Trust must be re-deserved every day, and that is what this report aims to do: to strengthen the trust of society. Mr President! At the end of the day, however, mankind’s greatest threat is climate change and the associated natural disaster, which is accelerated by human intervention. Climate change mitigation, peace work and support for sustainable development are rightly the cross-cutting themes of the report. The extreme weather phenomena and the resulting climate refugees will be the catalyst for the next international migration. Finland must continue to promote climate change mitigation and adaptation through international cooperation in all areas of foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u88	Mr President! Thank you for a good report, whose central idea is human rights-based. The report shows that the United States has exited from the Paris climate agreement and that the country is not as committed to the multilateral system as it was before, but fortunately, with the change of presidency, the country will return to the joint tables. The Trump season has also brought great harm to sexual and reproductive health and rights. Strengthening the status and rights of women and girls, and in particular sexual and reproductive health and rights, are one of the priorities of Finland's development policy, and this attention should also be included in the report on foreign and security policy. Trump decided to cut funding for sexual health services in developing countries, and this had the effect that many women in developing countries have not received, for example, prevention services or vital sexual health services. I hope Biden's choice will make it right. It must be understood that sexual and reproductive health and rights are part of human rights and their lack is also one of the root causes of poverty and migration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u89	Mr President! There has been a good debate here today on a very good report, and it is clear that our foreign and security policy environment has changed, as has been pointed out. Finland is out of the way, but we must not be excluded from these threats, but we must respond just as much to these global challenges that we face: climate change, cyber threats and health threats. At the moment, we are still being mutilated around the world by a pandemic, covid-19, and every country, including Finland, must engage in national preparedness and cooperation in a complex way to defeat this enemy. There has been a great deal of discussion about security of supply this year, and we will take care of that at national level, as colleagues in this House have said quite well in the past. But we also need to think about what are the issues where, for example, at EU level, we could work more closely together and think about what would be sensible in a coordinated way at EU level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u90	Mr President! The European Union is an important security community and we are one part of it. In Finland, the military defence capability is based on a strong and functional reserve. I believe that in Finland it is voluntary national defence work and reservist organisations that maintain a high will to defend the country. Reservist organisations and their members exercise their own resources to a large extent while maintaining their ability to function. There is a possible ban on lead in the European Union, which would paralyze the activities of the reservist and, at the same time, cripple the will to defend the country. There is a contradiction here, ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to reconcile the possible ban on lead and the protection of reserve operations?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u91	I would like to add two more words in relation to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u92	Mr President! President Koivisto once expressed the reality of Finland very clearly. He said this: If we must have enemies, let us be enemies as far away as possible and friends close as enemies close and friends far away. Representative Mr Mykkänen was thinking about the situation that we are not alone, and we are genuinely not alone, because we have no enemies nearby — we do not leave for traffic that we have enemies nearby. He used the term that we are “in the western frame. ” When we talk about westernism, it may be common value. It would probably be better to express where it really is in Finland's cohesion security, and it is in Finland's membership of the European Union. It is the body on which we are genuinely part of a wider international network. And, as has been said so many times, in the final analysis, our security is, of course, in international cooperation, in the multilateral system and in international law. This is, of course, the framework in Finland's foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u93	Mr President! The EU aid clause is perhaps even more important for such a non-military country than for many others. Article 42.7 of the Treaty of Lisbon is about the obligation for EU countries to provide assistance to another country by all means available. A few years ago, the French President, Emmanuel Macron, wanted to make this aid clause concrete, and the President of the Republic, Sauli Niinistö, has also raised the same issue. Now it would be good for us to hear how decisions are made in Finland in such a situation. For some of us think that this is an EU issue, and others that each country is negotiating the way in which they support the needy. So, Mr Haavisto, according to the Government's point of view, is this EU decision-making or foreign policy decision-making? How do you see this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u94	Thank you. — Then ministers, each for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u95	Mr President! If I start with this last one, then there are two different articles in the EU: 222, the solidarity clause and then the 42.7, to which the question of the representative referred. This solidarity clause or solidarity clause is a decision-making exercise within the EU. It will be launched by the Commission. This, in turn, is inter-state cooperation and involves the President in the decision-making process. When it comes to military crisis management, of course, the greater the contribution and the greater the weight of the President as commander-in-chief in these matters will be the determining factor. Then I would like to take a few other things that have come into the debate. Firstly, I fully agree with the representatives of Zyskowicz, al-Taee, in part Halla-aho — I am not sure how he formulated his question — that Europe should respond more jointly to its own defence and develop it within the framework of the European Union. This came up in many questions. Mr Halla-aho may have asked it in such a way that the EU has learned its lesson from this period, when the United States was not so committed to defence, and is the EU prepared to do more. I hope there is in this sense. Then we asked about this blue moment. Mr Lindtman put it well, and Mr Lindtman put it well. The mute had a similar question as to how to take advantage of this moment in Biden, when the president’s power will change in the United States and the new themes will come. I believe that in matters that are important to us — climate issues, human rights, sexual and reproductive health rights and so on — new forms of cooperation with the United States will be achieved and this moment will certainly be used. Congressman Hänninen asked here about the nuclear treaty, the non-proliferation treaty. Finland, of course, is pushing for a nuclear ban. We want a world without nuclear weapons, that's clear. We are looking for the most effective way of doing this and we are also trying to involve the nuclear powers in these agreements, and this is still missing from this whole. The nuclear powers are currently not involved in this nuclear non-proliferation agreement. Security of supply and coping with crises rose in an excellent way in the speeches of many speakers — Risikko, Hoskonen, Heikkinen. You also discussed how Parliament could deal with this issue more forcefully. I agree with Mr Hoskonen on everything, except for peat, but it is very good that Parliament should also play a more active role in this issue of security of supply. And I have no objection to having a more active annual debate on these themes on foreign and security policy as well. There is always a need for parliamentary debate on these issues. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u96	Mr President! Today, the importance and even necessity of multilateral cooperation in this world has rightly been raised in this Chamber and it can certainly be said that, overall, international cooperation is perhaps more important than ever so that these global crises can find a global solution. When it comes to foreign and security policy, of course, I myself would like to say that development policy is indeed part of security policy. The toolbox has a vast variety of instruments that aim and are able to respond to global problems and strengthen global stability. In other words, overall development policy is often in this situation and in this world the channel that can work and produce results even when the confrontation of the major powers is being blocked, for example, by the UN Security Council. And in this regard, of course, it is important that multilateral cooperation is progressing and developing, and, as has been said many times today, the rule-based system as a whole, and here, of course, the International Health Organization, its continuation, its future, the commitment of the United States, but also the future of the International Trade Organisation (WTO), which, if anything, is the creator and importer of a level playing field, if and when it operates in the way it should operate. When many Members asked what things might change now — or, perhaps even to say, change — in the run-up to the elections in the United States, yes, if three things have to be said, climate policy, the attitude of the United States to promoting equality, we have rightly raised the issue of sexual and reproductive health, which certainly now has a real opportunity in the Biden era to do much more and more concretely, but certainly at the same time the attitude of the United States to multilateral cooperation, that is to say, health, resilience and the resolution of global crises as a whole. What it would mean in practice to involve the United States in sexual and reproductive health issues is certainly that we will find more and more the same vision that Finland, the Nordic countries have internationally, and that we have in common with similar countries. That is very important now, for example, if we look at the future of Africa, the rights of girls and women, the position of disabled people, that we genuinely involve the United States.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u97	Mr President! I have a few questions for you. Representative Mäenpää: I have actually recently met with the management of reserve agencies and discussed this question you raised. And in this national implementation of the directive, we are looking for ways to secure as far as possible the practice of shooting, which is often part of the reservist activity. I think it's important myself. The defence force itself is excluded from the implementation of this directive. There was some talk here — Mr Al-Taee and a few others — about the development of an EU defence policy. Some steps have been taken in recent years and more are being taken. There's not gonna be much rapid change in that. That this ship is moving or turning slowly, but there is a growing interest in this subject in various European countries. And I believe that steps will be taken forward in the future. Europe will have more responsibility for its own security in the future. I would also like to mention perhaps a few other bodies of cooperation that are important to us. There are more of them, as has been said in this debate, but there is also Nordic defence cooperation here. We share a vision of 2025, where we move forward. The aim is to improve cooperation both in the context of peace and conflict, in the context of the crisis. And, in fact, very recently, steps were also taken towards mutual security of supply at the Nordic level. I would also like to thank you for the good support for cooperation between Finland and Sweden. There is significant progress and one can really say, as mentioned in the report, that Sweden is currently our most important partner, and further steps are also being prepared there. Let's move forward at a pace that feels good in Finland and Sweden, both countries. But at the moment there is good support, both between peoples and between politicians, for this cooperation is being intensified, and that is based on the fact that we have a very similar position and a similar view of the world and security in Northern Europe, although we are not quite identical now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u100	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u101	President! After World War II, the United States established NATO as a military alliance for its own defence, with a view to keeping the wars behind the seas out of their own territory. In order to implement this strategy, the United States needed and needs small states to help it. NATO is not about the security of these countries, as we believe,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u104	Mr President! Finland’s basic foreign and security policy is stable and predictable. It is based on bilateral relations, cooperation and engagement within the European Union and multilateral cooperation based on a rule-based international system and international law. In the circles of world politics, Finland has traditionally represented the line of stability and continuity. Instead, the line of stability and continuity is not represented by the changing world around us. Global development trends, such as climate change and migration, as well as the increase in hybrid threats, highlight a new line of security thinking. In a changing security environment, we will not survive unless we adopt a broad perspective on security. Civilian crisis management and peace building are themes that need to be emphasised in order to be able to influence the identified threats before they become widely escalated. The emphasis on hybrid threats underscores the need for reforms that have already been undertaken, particularly the intelligence laws. Hybrid threats will become even more important as technology develops in the future. Global market leadership in the field of technology will inevitably also be combined with a security policy element. On the other hand, in this time period, corona pandemic has demonstrated in concrete terms the importance of the traditional line of security thinking, the overall provision. The global, networked world and long supply chains are ideally effective, but extremely vulnerable in the midst of upheavals. At present, we can see in concrete terms that internal policy measures to promote comprehensive security of supply are absolutely important from the point of view of security policy. A well-managed own property also offers us an opportunity for strong international operations. Overall preparedness is an important aspect that is also important at EU level. The crisis has shown that, at the level of our main security community, this preparedness is not yet sufficient. Mr President! One of the main priorities of the report is, in my opinion, the description of Finland's foreign policy environment as marked by a major power competition and the change in the security environment in a more unstable direction. This description of the ‘unsteadier direction’ has also been the subject of a public debate on I don't think that picture is wrong. The development that began with the invasion of Crimea and the influx of refugees has continued. These points have been combined with the worrying democratic process in the countries of the European Union. At the same time, the unity of the Union countries has decreased in recent years. Similarly, the situation has deteriorated in neighbouring countries of the Union, the most concrete examples of which are the situation in Belarus and Turkey. On a global scale, the key issue relates to the United States, where the report paints a harshly realistic picture of the polarisation of the political field. With the result of the US presidential election, we can expect a certain degree of stability, but will the change of president change the direction of US foreign policy on the road to increasing global influence? This is a key issue that is essential to Finland’s foreign and security policy environment. The shift from populism to moderation with the presidential election is an important step that can at best influence development in other parts of the world. The United States is a key partner for us to continue, and its return to global leadership and respect for international agreements is of the utmost importance from Finland’s point of view – therefore, changes in the United States’ internal unity need to be closely monitored. Leaders such as Trump will continue to rely on populism in the global arena. However, we must be more prepared for these changes at both Finland and the EU level in the future. Searching for back profits in politics is never good, therefore there is no reason to show too much unreserved celebration of the election victory. It produces counter-reactions and does not provide the basis for its desired more stable development. We must also be able to build a common future with the lost party. The past four years have been marked by pecking between the United States and China. China's rise as a global player is a development which will continue to be reflected in US foreign policy. Despite the change of power, tension in the relationship between these countries is unlikely to ease. We too, as an EU Member State, must consider both our own position and the role of the Union in this competition. Mr President! In the big picture, the report does not bring major changes in Finland's direction or direction. It represents realism and, on the other hand, strong government priorities in the long-term basic lines. From Finland’s point of view, the future development of the major powers lies at the heart. It is in our interest to promote dialogue between the parties and to promote international agreements for our part.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u105	At this stage, then, Mr Niiko has the last floor, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u106	Mr President! Finland's foreign and security policy has a strong consensus-oriented attitude, especially regarding major political policies. Finland is a small non-military country for which maintaining its own defence capability is important. Finns know their history well. The emerging value base is the cornerstone of our welfare society. With regard to traditional threats, the new report on foreign and security policy does not differ significantly from its predecessor. We will continue to closely monitor changes in our operating environment and strive to prepare for potential threats in a proactive and effective manner. However, I would like to make a few comments on the newer security threats mentioned in the report and the emphasis on the report. The first priority is the safety of Finland and Finns and the independence of our country. The leading point of the 2016 report in all operations was the interest of Finland and Finns. The focus is now more strongly on human rights-based foreign policy, global objectives and strengthening the EU's interests. The promotion of national interests, at least in terms of rhetoric, as was the case in today's debate, is of little importance. In the 2016 report, Finland’s interest was emphasised several times. Whether it is defence cooperation, membership of organisations or trade union choices, they were always justified by the phrase ‘This is the case in Finland’. In the 2020 report, this sentence is not heard at all. Instead, Finland, in line with the Government’s new line, attaches importance to a more determined promotion of Europe’s interests and values and to strengthening global prosperity. The new report refers only to national interests as a risk, and I am concerned about this change. Of course, Finland is part of Europe, but it is primarily an independent country whose interests are delegated to the representatives of the European Parliament. Secondly, I would like to raise the issue of migration. This is mentioned among the factors affecting our operating environment. According to the report, immigration is generally well regulated and anticipated. The report highlights the problems of the countries of origin and climate change as factors contributing to migration, but does not give sufficient weight to the internal security threats and segregation brought about by immigration. International terrorism has been mentioned as a point of its own, but the report does not link it to immigration. However, the recognised fact is that Islamic extremist terrorism is a threat to internal security, and both in the case of the terrorist attack in Turku and in Europe, the attacks have mainly been carried out by immigrants. Both immigration and terrorism can also be used as a form of hybrid influence. Hybrid influence is a security threat that has increased and diversified over recent years, and this has also been taken into account in the report. As mentioned in the report, in the wider deployment of new technologies, for example 5G, it is important to ensure proactively the safety and resilience of networks in both normal and crisis situations. As far as the European Union is concerned, the report states that the EU's enlargement policy has contributed to peace, prosperity, security and stability in Europe. In reality, enlargement policy has been too quick and rash in some respects, which has weakened the factors mentioned above. As a result, challenges such as respect for the rule of law within the EU have increased. Nevertheless, the report calls on the EU to continue to implement its enlargement policy. Mr President! Finland’s security environment has become more unstable, and it is also taken into account in the Finnish foreign and security policy guidelines as appropriate. As mentioned in the report, Finland does not want to or do not want to isolate itself. International cooperation is important both for Finland to build partnerships and to develop its own defence skills. In particular, Nordic cooperation can be seen as a specific element of added value and has recently been invested in it. Finally, President, I would like to say that, as stated in the report, Finland is not currently facing a military threat. Overall, the report on foreign and security policy is a well-prepared and comprehensive analysis of our operating environment and supports Finland’s security and well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u107	Thank you. That is how the debate and the debate will be suspended for the moment. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u108	And now we will continue to deal with item 5, which has been suspended earlier in this plenary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u109	Mr President! I do not know whether there are any more participants here in the preparation of the parliamentary report group, but thank them, however, and also the other preparatory parties, officials and ministers. We have in our hands a balanced report in which security and global responsibility belong together, which continues the Finnish foreign policy line with a long-term perspective but makes it even stronger based on values and takes into account changes in the operating environment in the world. Examples: Turkey tells us that Greece is pushing asylum seekers back to the sea — hybrid influence or violation of human rights, or both? The NGO will start serving school food in North Korea with state funding for development cooperation. China mistreats the Uighur population in the province of Xinjiang, inter alia, by locking them in re-education camps for an indefinite period. The Finnish forest company builds a pulp mill in indigenous countries, including the working conditions of local personnel. The people of Belarus march on the streets and strike to get an honest election, but hundreds of demonstrators are being imprisoned. Finland’s response to these challenges in the world and to the coherence of foreign policy is increasingly based on human rights. The report says that the human rights impact will be assessed in all Finnish activities. This is an important part of Finland’s view of comprehensive security, which takes into account the various global challenges affecting security, such as climate change, health threats, migration, economic crises, increasing inequalities, the effects of terrorism and international crime, etc. The aim of the report is a more stable, predictable and secure world. This objective does not only look inside Finland and only to our own interests, but sees welfare and the growth of democracy as a global stabilising and security-enhancing objective. It is good that this objective can be divided across party boundaries. As in Finland, the report highlights continuity and over-election, which is good and strengthens the credibility of Finland's foreign policy, but it is equally important to be able to react to the change in the world, and it is therefore good that the new priorities, human rights and climate change, are reflected in accordance with the Government Programme. Climate change and the loss of biodiversity are so radical changes in the living conditions of our sphere that it is the last moment to understand how to prepare and influence them as part of the hard core of foreign and security policy. The happy news in this respect has been the recent messages from China about the country's objective of carbon neutrality, which we can certainly support as Finland through trade and innovation. The position of the newly elected President of the United States, Joe Biden, on the return of the United States to the Paris climate agreement is also significant and a source of hope for the world as a whole. The role of the EU as a driver of international rule-based climate work remains important. Finland's own operations must also respect the do no harm principle from the point of view of climate and biodiversity. The report underscores the importance of an important multilateral rule-based system and international cooperation for a country such as Finland. Respect for the international system and obligations and the universality and binding nature of human rights are increasingly challenging and require support. A more effective UN system is essential. We also support open and fair trade. The year has been dominated by global challenges requiring joint action, and such threats to safety, threats to health, have also been heavily addressed in the report. However, I hope that other global challenges will not be forgotten under the corona. Unesco has long raised awareness of research results based on the learning crisis. During the Millennium Development Goals, there was an increase in educational places in developing countries. With the exception of fragile refugee situations and the consequences of the corona, the crisis is currently still more concerned with access to schooling. Teachers lack skills, pay problems, schools are not safe, school food is missing, disabled or otherwise vulnerable groups are not sufficiently taken into account, learning material is weak or lacking. For a long time from Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u110	Mr President! The Government's foreign and security policy report, which is under discussion, is a high-quality description of Finland's foreign policy line. Finland’s line is stable, predictable and very based on bilateral relations, influence within the European Union and multilateral cooperation and a rule-based international system. I myself received the honour of acting on the Foreign and Security Policy Committee as an alternate member of Parliament's leading foreign policy representative, Mr Kanerva. During this process, I was left to consider how this continuity, once implemented in the parliamentary term, can be interpreted as a positive thing to react to an ever stronger change in the Finnish security environment. Continuity and a powerful change when they may not always meet. We know that where large countries may have the potential to make even major mistakes, a small country may not be able to afford that little mistake. Agility and open social debate are also key to ensuring security for Finnish citizens. We live in a country where the President of the Republic Niinistö is firmly at the heart of the people, and the whole of Finland trusts his judgment, especially when it comes to foreign and security policy. However, this is not a permanent condition forever. Without an increasingly open and broader social debate, there is a risk that Finns will no longer share a common security picture with the state administration in the future. At that point, how will the legitimacy of decisions or Finland’s ability to react quickly if the situation so requires? Are we simply non-aligned, but in reality something else? Is there more to this report between the lines than the lines themselves? These are very important questions for Finland’s future. And I will continue to ask questions — as in the case of Finland, I will leave my opinions between the lines, let it be accepted. My question is: Have we carried out a sufficiently clear and realistic analysis of the growth in China's role, and how does Finland sit in it? Which comes first, the fight against climate change or international stability? The sure thing is, without one, there's no other. And is Europe prepared to take care of itself if Trump is elected President in 2024? This is not a humor, but a very serious question that we should be thinking about right now. The European Union's defence policy must move forward. If not now, then it will probably happen in the middle of the crisis, and this is the wrong way. When we think about all of this, it is very important to remember that we Finns must always be on the Finnish and Finnish side, especially in terms of foreign and security policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u111	Mr President! Finland’s foreign and security policy environment is affected by many global changes, such as climate change, the changed power relations of the major powers and a global pandemic that has overshadowed the year 2020 all over the world. The Corona virus has tested the sustainability of states. Virus infections have spread in both prosperous and poor countries, damaging the health and economy of the population. However, the interest crisis is not just a global health and economic crisis: it is also, to a great extent, a crisis of democracy and power in many countries. In order to curb the pandemic, countries have restricted, for example, the freedom of movement and assembly of citizens. In a democracy, restrictions on the freedom of citizens are only introduced in extreme situations, such as protecting people's lives and health. Self-restriction is not a problem in itself, but habits can be. As stated in this report, ‘Restrictive measures andexceptions imposed to prevent the free movement of goods may make it possible for the automatic operators They may, in turn, lead to human rights violations, undermine the conditions for media action and undermine democracy and the rule of law.” The value base of Finland’s foreign and security policy is based on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Finland must continue to play an active role in the democratic process. Democracy is now under threat in the world, and it is not in the interests of Finland. Mr President! The rule-based international system is the strongest pillar of stability and world peace. Only in a rule-based international system can we solve global challenges, such as climate change, together. The corona crisis has also shown the need for a rule-based system. Finland is working strongly to strengthen this system. Recently, however, the cross-border objectives of the major powers, the increasingly competitive activities and the deliberate destabilization of the system have made cooperation more difficult and, unfortunately, has weakened the system. This has raised concerns both in Finland and in other countries. Hopefully, there will be a change in this direction when the future President of the United States, Joe Biden, begins his reign in January. First of all, Biden has promised, at least publicly, to return the United States to the Paris climate agreement, for example, which presupposes a brighter future for an international rule-based system. It is hoped that the choice of Biden will strengthen the role of rule-based international cooperation in global politics in the wider world. The Korona virus must not lead to permanent isolation of states, but should be seen as a force that unites the states. Pandemics do not know the borders of the nations drawn on maps and agreed by men. That is why close cooperation and dialogue between states are needed. Now is not the time to decline and turn inwards in a crisis. Pandemics are a common threat that we need more international cooperation than ever to cope with. Mr President! Finland’s foreign and security policy is based on human rights. Finland is therefore strongly committed to defending and promoting human rights through its own actions. Right now, however, there is worrying news from the world about women's sexual and reproductive health rights, for example. In many countries, the opposition against women's rights has been strengthened. Women's rights are being resisted both in Europe and in the world, and within the EU Member States the differences in equality policy are also important in some respects. That is why it is so important that Finland will continue to emphasise the rights of women and girls in its foreign policy and will support international efforts aimed at strengthening gender equality. More attention should be given to this theme at the level of foreign policy. In the international arena, more than ever, there is a need for countries that defend women's rights with a strong voice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u112	Mr President! Last week, we discussed the sustainable development agenda here in Parliament, and it was very clear in that debate that a safe world is in the interests of Finns. At the same time, it was stressed that climate change mitigation is also a safety act. The implementation of the objectives of sustainable development in foreign and security policy aims to reduce climate threats, poverty and inequality. It is therefore very welcome that the report on foreign and security policy also contains a strong focus on climate change mitigation. These things cannot be separated. Finland has been active internationally and, for example, the UN has tried to influence the Security Council to address the issue and to work on the necessary knowledge base based on scientific research on the risks of climate change to security. Climate change, biodiversity loss and pandemics are key global challenges, and that is why we need to solve these problems together. Our national target shows a strong commitment to global responsibility in controlling and adapting to climate change, as well as serving as an example for others. Development policy is part of Finland's foreign and security policy based on values and human rights. The eradication of poverty, the reduction of inequalities and mitigation of climate change will strengthen human rights and enhance stability and global security. I hope that the special target of development aid for Finland will be girls' education, as it will have a proven impact on the development of societies. In development aid, it is important to seek to influence societies in such a way as to reduce the root causes of forced migration. Climate change is one of the key factors contributing to migration. This report lists a number of ways to influence these root causes. In broad terms, all development cooperation carried out by Finland also affects the root causes of migration. Mr President! Koronapandemia has also highlighted the challenges of global health safety. Combating cross-border health threats requires effective international cooperation to develop pandemic preparedness and crisis resilience. By participating in this cooperation and supporting others, Finland also contributes effectively to its own health safety. In particular, it is important for Finland to support countries that are less prepared to respond to epidemics, pandemics and biological threats. Koronapandemia has also shown shortcomings in the use of foresight data and crisis management in our society. We collect a lot of foresight data, but it is not sufficiently utilised in decision-making. It was not surprising, in the light of the foresight information, that the Koronapandem was present. There has been foresight information, but it has not moved to decision-making or action. I hope we've learned a lesson now. In its own work, the Committee on the Future has focused particularly on the use of foresight information, and we have now dealt with a great deal of the post-column world. I am therefore very pleased that this report will also come to the Committee on the Future, because we will look at foreign and security policy from a future perspective, we will recognise the various threats and opportunities of the future. Finally, Mr President, there has also been a lot of talk here today about security of supply, which is an important, important issue. The National Audit Office and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy are launching an audit on security of supply operations. The Audit Committee will examine these reports and, once they have been completed, it will take its decision to direct its own work on security of supply activities. The Audit Committee has therefore drawn attention to this issue and decided to make one of its controls on security of supply. It is also important for security policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u113	Mr President! Our commitment to human rights will be weighed in difficult places. This means that human rights are maintained even when it is difficult or, for example, economically unfavourable in the short term. In the long run, the world of respect for human rights is better for each and every one of us. Sometimes value-based and human rights-based values are criticised as some form of idealism. I personally think that they are, to a great extent, also real policy. Human rights create stability in the world and are thus also the security of a small country. Mr President! In this time it seems particularly important to discuss the priorities of Finland's foreign and security policy. We are in the midst of a global pandemic that concretely shows the many faces of security policy, the need to react to world changes and the importance of international cooperation. Nor will this be the last crisis of the century, as we also have the climate crisis and the sixth wave of extinction to solve. There are no simple solutions to complex questions. To solve the biggest problems of our time, we need cross-border cooperation and a strong commitment to common goals. Especially in stormy times, it is important that our foreign and security policy is based on common values and principles. It is therefore very welcome that the human rights-based approach in this report should become more and more a cross-cutting principle of Finland's foreign and security policy. Mr President! Sexual and reproductive rights are closely integrated into human and fundamental rights. They refer to the right to one’s own body, sexuality, safety and ability to make decisions about one’s own well-being. Today I heard a claim that sexual health has nothing to do with foreign and security policy. Of course, this is not true. Equality, the rights of girls and women, and sexual and reproductive health and rights are essential factors in building security, peace and sustainable development. Therefore, the impact on human rights must always be considered from the point of view of sexual and reproductive rights. Mr President! As important as sexual rights and reproductive health are, their realization is far from a big deal. That is why we need countries like Finland who are tirelessly able to defend and defend sexual rights even when those rights are being challenged. We will come forward when exchanges of power threaten to deprive important working organisations of funding, and we will continue to work consistently and rigorously for the rights of girls and women from one government to the next. Although this has been our foreign policy policy policy for a long time, we have also been able to accommodate the swings along the way, and that is precisely why I would like to stress the importance of trusting vulnerable girls and women around the world that we are on their side now and in the future. It is important that these themes go hand in hand not only in our development policy but also in our foreign and security policy. Mr President! The result of the presidential election in the United States creates hope for progress in equality, sexual and reproductive health and rights. I will therefore take this opportunity to send a message to the future President of the United States: I really hope that Joe Biden will repeal the so-called global gag rule at least as quickly as Trump did in his day. This regulation took away funding from many international health organisations and has therefore significantly limited the range of sexual and reproductive health services around the world. It has been particularly affected by vulnerable girls and women. This regulation expresses in a terrible way what it means if human rights are seen only as a limited right belonging to certain groups of people, which can be taken away. This example comes from across the Atlantic, but worrying developments can be seen even closer. In Poland, the right to abortion is being fought for, and in more European countries, the right to sexual health and to sexual education is being defended. Sexual and reproductive health and rights are currently being seriously and systematically challenged throughout the world. It is very important that we do not give up in the face of this movement. As President, I invite all Members of Parliament to take part in the cross-party parliamentary sexual rights and development network. Mr President! At best, Finland can be bigger than its size in the world. We are known as an equalist, a peace negotiator and an uncompromising defender of human rights. As a pioneer in the fight against climate change, technological development, education and the rights of women and girls, we also have credibility to work for these issues in the world. We are trusted and called upon to support us in difficult times. Ensure that this is the case in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u114	Mr President! As unhindered and open international trade as possible is the undisputed advantage of Finland's export-driven economy. Economists say that free trade is in the interests of all. From the point of view of international trade rules, the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, is a key player, and it is advantageous for Finland if its role is strengthened. In recent years, the WTO has faced challenges as protectionist thinking increases. The WTO and its dispute settlement system are in a difficult situation in the face of major power competition undermining its structures. The election of Biden as President of the United States can change the situation and stabilise the conditions for international trade and the WTO. In spite of this, economic competition between the major powers will continue to affect the functioning of the WTO. A stable and predictable operating environment is very important for Finland. This applies both to the economic and security policy environment. International organisations, such as the WTO, play a key role in creating stability. Efforts to reform the WTO system must be continued and solutions must be sought with a wide range of compromises. An effective system of dispute resolution mechanisms is in the interests of all States Parties, including the major economies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u115	Mr President! The report on development policy states that ‘the geographical focus of development policy is Africa’ on page39. On the second point, the report says that Africa is growing in importance, In Africa, however, economic growth is strong and economic prosperity and democratic development are unevenly developing in the various regions of the continent, and this is the case. There are areas where gross domestic product, welfare, literacy and education go in a good direction quickly, but there are also areas where there is virtually no state in its traditional form. They are countries and regions that have collapsed. The report also says that the economic development of Africa is not enough to meet the needs of population growth, and this is an interesting statement — and it is good that it is involved there, but these are a little bit as scattered here in different parts of the report, when it says that the geographical focus on our development aid is close to Europe and what is happening in Africa is very important for Europe's development, but also for Finland's development. And about this population growth, some figures are: At present, about 1.3 billion people live in Africa. According to the UN's most pessimistic estimate, 4.8 billion people will live on 2100 continents in the year. This increase of 3.5 billion people corresponds to about five people in Europe and about 600 people in Finland — I think at some point I calculated that it corresponds to about 15,000 people in Tampere. These figures give the scale and indicate the demographic pressure that Africa may have towards Europe, and it is likely that it will, because climate change and changes in food production are hitting a lot of regions in Africa. It is therefore important that, in all development aid, we pay particular attention at both EU and Finnish level to family planning, the status of women, education and the reduction of population growth. Security of supply has been discussed on many occasions. Today, the report of the Audit Committee on the Board of Directors' Annual Report was discussed and the Audit Committee decided and stated:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u116	Mr President! This discussion of the Foreign and Security Policy Report has been a very interesting event. This report gives a very good impression of the situation in Finland, and on the basis of this debate, I interpret that the content has only caused acceptable statements, of course, even mild gravel sounds, but it must be that we will reach a good compromise once we have dealt with the matter thoroughly in this House. ‘Continuity’,‘precautionality’ and ‘long-termity’ arewords which can be used That is what we must stick to, as we have done so far, and we will continue to do so. It is very important for Finland that we maintain good relations with our neighbours. Old wisdom of keeping friends close and enemies as far away as possible is still wisdom, even after the next hundred years. Our relations within the European Union are very important to us, as are our relations with the United States, especially now that we have had very decisive hard opinions on what the change of President of the United States will do in the next two months. Of course, we have lived for four years, I would say, a strange time, but the outlook for the future is good. The new President-elect, Mr Biden, has already stated clearly that his priorities are somewhat different as regards the President-in-Office, Mr Trump. That's a good thing. Under all circumstances, we must maintain good relations with the United States as well. It's important to us. International cooperation as such is also still important. For example, the United Nations — there we must be visible and defend human rights, the rights to the protection of the integrity of peoples and international cooperation. It is not always easy to take the smaller side, but it must be remembered that it is also a lifeline for us. Regional integrity is also very important to us. That is why, when the defence policy report comes to us in the near future or with the ear of the spring, it will certainly go through this in greater depth, but that means that we also have a genuine and firm will to remain independent and that our territory is intact. Of course, this requires good tools, but above all the ability to defend the country — the will to keep this country independent. Even in this report, staying outside international conflicts is also a very important issue. In any way, Finland should not even get involved in conflicts where major powers strike together in some way or another. There, very suddenly, a small nation could get into great, great trouble. The wisdom of Brave Kekkonen once said that Finland should be a doctor rather than a judge in international activities is still true. But finally, Mr President, a little more security of supply. From the point of view of Finnish security, the recent review of our security of supply has, at least in me, given rise to great amazement. It is almost forgotten when these comments have been made during this fast-track debate on climate change. We have not spoken seriously about what security of supply really is. Climate fervor has been at a level where all rational proportions have been forgotten a long time ago. Food supply is playing, farmers are able to produce Finnish food raw materials, but at the moment the economic situation of Finnish agriculture and farmers is so bad that it is threatening in the near future whether we have enough farmers who can produce this raw material in their own fields. It is clear that if the economy gets tight, the number of farmers will be reduced, while the number of fields to be cultivated will be reduced. It is worrying that we have gradually come into this situation, and I hope that this House will gradually start to wake up to the fact that we absolutely also need a functioning agriculture in this country, without which this nation will not survive. If anyone does not believe my speech, consider the situation in Finland during World War II. Then this energy policy is a figure. Mr President, in the midst of this heat of peat, we have completely forgotten what the real Finnish energy policy is. Of course we rely entirely on imported energy — that is what we know. Even in the worst times, more than 40% of electricity comes as imported electricity, but if we want to keep regional heat in order, then we must have biofuels from our own country. We almost have to use the peat because we have to have the fuel.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u117	Mr President! There is a monument to President J. K. Paasikivi next door to the House of Parliament and the text on its pedestal is: ‘Acknowledgment of the facts at the beginning of all wisdom’. Mr President! Finland is destined for geography. President Mauno Koivisto in his history book, in his memoir book “Historians”,probably laconically said that the most sinister figures in the history of Finland When from the east, when from the west, Finland has become a footstool in the confrontations between East and West, which has brought to this country the darkest figures of history we have experienced. In practice, all wars have been caused by this aside from the one war, the great patriotic war or winter war, the great patriotic war in Finland, or the Winter War, in which the nation fought its own war of freedom and was able to act united under extremely critical conditions. After the wars, Finland endeavoured to adopt a policy of neutrality, which is now referred to as the ‘military non-union policy’,which wanted Finland to move from the conflict between the major powers and to ensure a peaceful state,and,a worthy President,that is, after the second
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u120	Mr President! The aim of foreign and security policy is indeed to strengthen Finland's international position, to safeguard the independence and territorial integrity of the state, to strengthen Finland's security and well-being and to maintain the functioning of society. And our aim must always be to prevent armed conflicts at national level and also through international cooperation. Mr President! Finland's foreign and security policy is also being implemented in this time period. This is reflected in the fact that new priorities have been raised from a foreign policy perspective, such as this health safety, climate change, digitalisation. Much has been said today about security of supply for energy and food, but I would also like to highlight the regional policy aspect of this debate in the sense that, when the whole of Finland is being developed, it is also a good security policy. Mr President! Today there has also been talk of confrontation, that there is a trend in this time and the world. Finland does not need confrontation, Finland needs peace, stability, partnership and economic relations with neighbouring countries as well as with the wider international community. Mr President! Finland should and must continue to insist on its non-alignment. I do not think NATO is an option, but rather we must develop cooperation with Sweden and other Nordic countries, both in terms of defence policy and security policy. The defence of our country is built on a strong and credible national defence capability that we must not compromise at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u121	Mr President! This debate on foreign and security policy is really in order, and today, in this Chamber earlier, there was the hope that this debate could take place more than once every four years, and I would like to warmly welcome this idea. This subject is extremely important for the security and future of the country, and that is why this debate needs to take place. A few comments on this report: First of all, this more traditional idea, which was also very well spoken of in the previous speech, relates to Finland's defence and to the measures that are actually taking place, as defined in the defence policy report already recorded by the previous Parliament: It is extremely important that now Finland invests a lot in defence, implements fleet acquisitions, the HX project, hires new soldiers, contract soldiers, and in addition next year, for example, if the corona situation allows, there will be a record number of participants in the refresher exercise, around 19300. All of these tell us that Finland's defence policy is being invested, the Finnish defence policy budget, compared to the international SIPRI calculation, is well above that 2 percentage points of GDP, and it tells us that in this time we are actually investing in our own defence capabilities. In addition to this, it is important to take account of the new threats, which relate primarily to hybrid threats and indirect attacks, whether from the state or from other actors, and here, fortunately, Finland has not been blue-eyed, we have reformed legislation last season, and, on the other hand, we are also investing in these new threats, in identifying them and in combating them during this parliamentary term. This is extremely important, and I think this is the first comment on this point. Secondly, I would like to highlight international relations and cooperation. Above all, the relationship with Sweden is extremely important to Finland, and I believe that, just as several representatives have said today, progress should be made to the extent that it is reasonable and at the same pace as Sweden wants to promote it with us. Equally, of course, acting within the European Union is the most important reference framework for Finland, but we must also remember the good relations with neighbouring Russia. I think it makes sense to have that president. The line maintained by Niinistö, where when the rest of Europe practically stopped discussing with the high Russian leadership, Finland maintained this dialogue even though the circumstances were difficult. We still face a lot of challenges in this international security environment, but having good relations with all our neighbours is in the interests of the country. In addition to this, it has already been said today that the closer, more functional contacts we have with these close reference groups — the United States, Germany, the other Nordic countries — the better it will be for the Finnish foreign and security policy position and the better we will be able to defend the interests of our own country in the first place. This as a second observation. And perhaps lastly, as a convening observation, as a third point: The stability line, which has been on a very good model in Finland for a long time, has been represented not only by the President of the Republic but also by the Government and Parliament in co-operation. In this line, a small nation like Finland is best placed to maintain those basic fundamentals that our security is in our own hands, that we do not drift anywhere unwittingly but that we are always prepared not only to cooperate but also to react, to defend our interests. And these three combined, i.e. defence, international relations and cooperation and this long line in Finland's foreign and security policy debate, are the key issue and line in which the Finnish foreign and security policy must continue to be pursued. After this report on foreign and security policy, work will begin on the defence policy report. This report has now been made available, but the report is extremely important, which will now be discussed after this report. A few comments on this later, but I believe that, when the three key points I have mentioned are secured as if cooperation were secured, it will also be able to keep the Finnish foreign and security office in its own hands as well as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u122	Mr President! I will continue with the theme of the previous representative. In particular, the situation in Russia should be discussed when assessing the development of those major powers. As highlighted in that report, government control in Russia's internal policy has intensified and, alongside Crimea, action in Syria has shown that Russia's threshold for military use has been reduced. This also raises the question of how well we know Russia in Finland at the end of the day. We are often depicted in the world as an expert in Russia, but sometimes I wonder if this is really the case. The emphasis on cooperation with Western countries is undoubtedly central, but we must not close our eyes to what is happening in our neighbourhood. Creating and maintaining confidential relations and increasing knowledge of Russia on a wider front would be extremely important. When we move in European contexts, we are often asked what is going on with Russia, what is happening in Russia, but if you ask the representatives about this Chamber, there are probably not many people who have an answer to it. There is a lot of practical cooperation with the eastern neighbour in terms of border security, customs, culture, tourism and transport, but I doubt that there is much political connection with Russia at this point. Of course, there are some of them in Eastern Finland, for example, but it seems that this communication has decreased especially for us in Western Finland and especially for those in this house. Of course, this has been caused by the political situation, but we must also remember that not all relations with our neighbours can only be managed through the EU, which means that there must be a dialogue. Although there are differences of opinion with different partners, there must still be a dialogue in every direction so that we can also better understand what they are doing — not accept but understand — and the way in which they think, for example, in Russia, and what they think about these things. Of course, we must understand that Russia is just as keen to strengthen its position of power as many other countries in this world, but as I said, we must understand. For example, we have now read a lot of interpretations of what the US election results will mean in foreign policy, for example, for China, but there is still a very small assessment of what will happen to the US relations with Russia. The development of relations between the USA and Russia will certainly also have an impact on Finland's security environment and its development, especially the Arctic region, of course, and monitoring what will be done there in the coming years. If we look at our most important partner, the European Union and how development is developing there, then we in Parliament now have an important place to prepare for the EU report. Unfortunately, little has been said about it, even though I represent the government party. The way in which the EU report is being prepared has led to some sort of article and headline reading, but I would also like to see more parliamentary debate on it. We have parliamentary monitoring groups and committees for all kinds of issues, but the EU report now comes without such a monitoring group. In other words, I hope that we will be able to go through this with all the parties, and I believe that the Minister will certainly approach the parties in order to be able to outline the objectives that will be set for EU policy over the next few years. With regard to security policy, this is particularly important when assessing the future security community of the European Union for Finland. And we should be able to ensure that all of us in the Member States think in the same way about the security community or interpret those agreements in the same way: whatever it means to have joint assistance or so on. But there has been a great deal of discussion here today — and I would like to conclude, Mr President — about the need for more of this foreign policy debate in this arena, and I fully agree. It should happen more often, it should happen more, and I am sure many people would like to see it in the daytime, perhaps for the reason that the hall is already quiet at this time when we are so late in the evening. But this is an important conversation. And I hope that not only would our Parliament do that, but that our representatives would be more networked with their colleagues in the Nordic countries, in Europe and in the world, as these things are being taken forward together. That is what multilateral cooperation is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u123	Mr President! I am the first to support the idea put forward just now by Mr Ovaska of parliamentary follow-up to the EU political report. As a very interesting matter and from the Finnish point of view, it is important that these issues should be discussed jointly between different parties. At the moment, at least I feel that Finland's EU policy is a kind of driftwood. Finland is a receptionist there who accepts what is given and there is no pre-emptive action of any kind. Regardless of what you think of the EU, this kind of policy certainly cannot be in the interests of Finland. But a few comments to this report on foreign and security policy. Firstly, this Russia, which has been ignored in several speeches, is that Finland does not even have information about what is happening in Russia: Unfortunately, the report — or its lack of it in relation to this Russia — also gives me the impression that Russia is not sufficiently known, for example, as regards its assessment of future developments. After all, no one is forever, not even the current President of Russia. What happens after the power changes in Russia? There should probably be some kind of scenario here. However, Russia is our neighbour, whether we like it or not, it is a superpower, it is a nuclear power. Whether we like it or not, we have to get along with Russia anyway. The second point of the report, which I drew attention to, is that the EU is overestimated here as a security policy element. Its inability, especially after the departure of Britain, to act as a security policy player is silenced and tried to coat it with various embellishment phrases, which are not entirely true. The EU has no military capability, and the corona crisis has shown that it does not have much other ability to act in a crisis situation. It did not even provide protective equipment and masks, but all countries acted as their own independent nation states, using the security stocks they had. Finland had no proper reserves of security, and that is what we suffered from. Even above all, when we talk about this EU defence dimension, I recommend that representatives who hold a great deal of voice also discuss this common EU defence with other EU countries. Where you go to talk with the representatives of these countries, the answer is polite: ‘It is certainly interesting,but we are already members of NATO. “ In other words, it is not in the interests of these countries to increase any overlapping EU defence dimension when they have already managed their own defence policy by being members of NATO. NATO has that military ability. Finland could have joined NATO at the time, but Finland did not do it for some reason. There may be many of those reasons, but now the consequences are being borne. To get back to the report: As has also been pointed out in the past, it seems to be rather selectively silent about certain UN failures. It is the case that the UN has become the voice of various countries, usually non-Western voices. There are countries in the Human Rights Council that have nothing to do with human rights, and Finland will vote with them on the same front. It makes absolutely no sense, and I think it should be changed. This report improves the world in many ways, and in my opinion also in ways that are unrelated to foreign and security policy, which means that the climate is everywhere today. Why should it also be in this place where perhaps more should be said about this hard substance of foreign and security policy? However, I think perhaps the worst thing about this is that, to a very large extent, we are turning our eyes into China's attempts at power, human rights violations and its espionage. The report ignores the fact that the United States and China have some form of competition for the leadership of the major powers. However, the fact is that in the long term China is on top of it because of its larger population base and because it already owns half of the third world. We should take this point into account and make it quite clear that we are on the side of the USA in this competition, because the USA may not be able to do it without Europe and without Finland's contribution. We would have to support the United States in that and not comb the President of the United States, for example, on the grounds that we do not like him. Now, however, as power in the USA is most likely to become more favourable from China’s point of view, it is also a threat to Finland. Will the United States be as tough on China as ever? Now China has come up with an inventive pose: China has come up with the idea that they should say that they are climate friendly. They have calculated, according to my own interpretation, that when they unleashed this corona crisis and caused this disaster on the world, they must somehow talk themselves out of this problem — and what better than to talk about ‘metamorphic carbon neutral in the past’? I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the plenary session, we held a debate on the Government's report on foreign and security policy, in which I spoke, which began on 16.07, I will repeat that speech to you shortly, but I think it was very typical that it was not even recorded on the Parliament's website, but that the men of the Finnish Broadcasting Company were jogging on what Mr Kanerva said and something else. That this may be directed at me in some way or that it may be quite technical, but I am now going to read this speech again here, so that the constituents of the Parliament will then take it to the right place where it should be. ‘Mr President! The European Union is an important security community and we are one part of it. In Finland, the military defence capability is based on a strong, functional reserve. I believe that in Finland it is voluntary national defence work and reservist organisations that maintain a high will to defend the country. Reservist organisations and their members exercise their own resources to a large extent while maintaining their ability to function. There is a possible ban on lead in the European Union, which would paralyze the activities of the reservist and, at the same time, cripple the will to defend the country. There is a contradiction here, ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to reconcile the possible ban on lead and the safeguarding of reserve operations?’ Mr President! Minister of Defence Kaikkonen replied to question 16.17 to Mr Mäenpää: ‘I have, as a matter of fact, discussed the issue you raised. And in this national implementation of the directive, we are looking for ways to secure as far as possible the practice of shooting, which is often part of the reservist activity. I think it's important myself. The Defence Forces themselves are excluded from the implementation of this Directive.’ That concludes my reply from Mrs Kaikko. Next, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Defence. It is often said that the opposition can be influenced, and it seems that it can be done in that committee. We dealt with the 16th of September. At the meeting, some draft opinion is based on what I have just said. On my proposal, the Committee on Defence added the text to the opinion as follows: ‘Thepreventive military defence capacity is based on a strong and functionally trained reserve, which is maintained in addition to the refresher In 2019 voluntary defence organisations raised concerns about the planned European Union lead regulation, which was perceived as weakening and limiting the possibilities of organising voluntary defence exercises. The entry into force of a possible lead regulation shall not undermine the capacity and exercise of reserve agencies and voluntary national defence. The activities of the Reservist organisations must be taken into account as part of the preventive military defence capability. “ This was our common will, and I think it is an easy solution: the activities of the reserve and voluntary defence organisations are included in the activities of the Defence Forces. That is my wish and ambition, and I believe that you will agree with it here in the Chamber. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u125	Mr President! Security of supply is an integral part of Finland's security policy. Many of those who have underestimated the importance of security of supply have probably come to light this year, at least, that their own food production is extremely important in a crisis and also in this current pandemic situation. Similarly, the adequacy of protective equipment has been weighed this year and there is room for improvement. Crisis and threats come unexpectedly and unsolicited, and they can be very diverse. A pandemic is one example of such a crisis. Another example could be the cyber attack on systems that are critical to society. Various threats need to be anticipated as carefully and comprehensively as possible. In recent years, increased competition between major powers and hybrid influence has increased the range and likelihood of threats in sight. Global phenomena affecting security are more closely interlinked than before. Security of supply must not be compromised, cybersecurity must be invested and the Defence Forces must be able to function, inter alia, through the planned procurement of fighters.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u126	Mr President! Just a few more things. Indeed, the organisation of a defence system that is credible for foreign and security policy is of paramount importance to us, and I believe that there is a genuine and sincere will in this country almost completely, that this country is defended by all means available, and that is a good basis on which we can build Finland's foreign and security policy. The integrity of our borders and the free lives of people here are values for us that should not be compromised at all, and I believe that is what almost the whole nation thinks. As I said in the previous speech, I am very concerned about the organisation of food supplies mentioned by Mr Kiviranta and, in general, about this agricultural activity in this country. The situation of farmers really is very poor, at the extreme limits of profitability, and one can say that there are few professions in this country that live in such distress in the midst of huge investment. And this is all because in this house we have built such a bureaucracy around that agriculture, that it will forget the beauty of agriculture when it gets mixed up in that bureaucracy jungle. In this regard, we should take ourselves up on the issue and take the red tape that has been raised during the last parliamentary term seriously, because I believe that a lot of things could be done much easier if the will to do so were found in this house. I hope one day that day will come — as soon as possible, of course. But what I said in my previous speech about this domestic security of supply for energy — this situation is extremely worrying. As I said, in the enormous zeal of climate policy, all the facts have been forgotten and it poses a great risk to our security and security of supply and to the success of this country in general. Indeed, today, if we want to live in a safe country, energy production should be as much in its own hands as possible. We've talked a lot about Caruna here. When Fortum once sold the electricity network and it happened to be purchased by foreign investors, there was a huge noise as electricity is now being distributed by the owner of the foreign network, who does not live in Finland and is not Finnish. Well, now we just did the same thing when we raised the tax on peat by EUR 2.7 per megawatt, now a big Finnish company was sold to French investors. Does it really matter now whether it comes through an electric line or through a district heating pipe when it is owned abroad? Both have the same problem, and it is precisely a risk factor for our security: when a foreigner owns, it certainly does not think of Finnish interests, there is only the pursuit of maximum economic gain behind it. That is why the decision taken at the time of the budget debate is still completely unacceptable. It has caused almost all of Eastern Finland today to depend on Russian chippings. There's so much of it coming from cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u129	Mr President! I think it happened to me a little like the previous speaker, Mrs Hoskonen, when we both missed our speech and now we are trying to conclude it quickly, or at least bring it to the heart of the matter. Of course, the central dimension of security in a small country, as Finland is, is international law, the international treaty system and multilateral cooperation. It is, of course, the framework in which Finland's foreign and security policy operates. This is clearly stated in this report. In this respect, when we talk about multilateral cooperation, the European Union is, of course, the most important and strongest reference framework for these external relations in Finland. We need to identify it. When there is talk of bilateral relations, it has been very clear in that report that Sweden, which is not militarily allied, shares similar values, even the same historical basis, and the neighbourly relationship is sustainable in this and, in cooperation with Sweden, we also have, in a way, open doors to security and defence cooperation. Finland is ready to further intensify this cooperation. Finland is also engaged in a partnership programme with NATO, which is practical, and Finland continues to keep its so-called NATO option open so that we can join NATO as we wish if we look at it. Mr President! In my view, the key criterion for its NATO membership is whether it strengthens Finland's security or not. That is the only question that needs to be opened when we are considering this issue of NATO membership. This has also been the subject of debate in this Chamber today. In this regard, it is perhaps worth recalling what President Niinistö said to Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung the other autumn when he was interviewed about the cooperation and cooperation between the President of the Republic of Finland and the President of Russia, whether they know each other, how well they know each other and whether there is also a debate on the most sensitive issues, and the President of the Republic, according to an interview in the press, said that yes, we are going on the most sensitive issues. Have you discussed, asked the journalist, also about Finland’s membership of NATO, and the President of the Republic replied to the newspaper that yes, also about the theme. What did Putin say? And Niinistö replied in the following way, and these may be good for us to recognize here that, according to Putin, Niinistö said, when the Russians look across the Finnish border today – we have a common border with Russia, as we all know, 1324 kilometres – across a common border with Finland, they see Finns on the other side of the border. If Finland joined NATO, Putin said, they would see enemies on the other side of the border. No matter how far we tie our own positions to how we are judged in a neighbouring country, we are, however, neighbouring countries, and the border is only safe if both sides feel that it is safe. This is the only criterion when we push for a sustainable security policy, that common borders everywhere, in all directions, are safe when it is identified on both sides as a safe border. And then, of course, we must avoid such measures that Sweden, Norway, Russia would feel that there is a threat from Finland. And this, Mr President, is clearly included in the government programme. What that military non-alignment means for Finland means that Finland's territory cannot be used against anyone. It can't be a threat to anyone. That's our problem. After all, Finland has never been a problem in practically any direction in history, but it has been a problem that the Finnish territory may have been used against something or some. In this respect, those lines have indeed moved from the east to the west and from the west to the east; it is also a long historical period from that side. Now, however, on this question, whether or not the territory of Finland can be used against something, there are certain factors that have changed. In the last five years, we have concluded nine types of letter of intent. We have also had military exercises on a very large scale, and NATO soldiers have also been practicing on Finnish soil, and now, by the latest, these weapons procurements, including this HX acquisition, all of these are in a significant way potentially altering the situation. There have been observers, researchers who have openly stated that Finland's position is beginning to appear to be part of the West without fear, the West without fear in northern Europe. And this is a problematic situation, if that is the case, because when we are afraid, we are a threat in some other direction. Of course, this should be avoided. All decisions that we make, including defence policy decisions that we make, should in principle strengthen our own defence and the security of Finland. We cannot be part of some broader deterrent systems and once again the confrontation of the great powers in the worst situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u131	Mr President! The report on foreign and security policy also has a central role to play in ensuring the security of this country, and that is the cornerstone of our defence obligation, which is also laid down in the Constitution. This obligation to defend our country is, of course, based on the fact that we have a strong military service and a strong reserve army in general, of which a representative Mr Mäenpää spoke, among other things, in his previous speech about the opportunities for these reservists to practice. The fact that we have a functioning, trained reservist army and, above all, a strong will to defend the country and enthusiasm to act there in the reservist forces relies on the fact that the military service is meaningful, appropriate and has broad support for the people, as it currently is. This is quite an interesting association in this security policy situation, as we are now reforming the military service through committee work. The results are also reflected in the reservist activity. Mr President! Mr Mäenpää spoke about this possibility for the reservists to practice. The response of the Minister of Defence and, in general, the policies and appropriations which the Minister of Defence has managed to obtain for the defence of the country of origin, do show that this concern has been quoted, and just like the representative. Mr Mäenpää himself said that we in the Committee on Defence have an exceptionally good spirit in common, as it should be when it comes to the defence of the country. Well, is that spirit also concrete in achieving results that sustain our security policy? It'll be real, too. I remember from the previous government period when the centre, the Coalition Party and the Finns of Finland were united that this cooperation enabled, among other things, the European Union to shape the Arms Law Directive so that it is also suited to the needs of our reservists and the defence of this country and to the maintenance of a modern-day military training system and hence of a large reservist system. I think that these are quite well taken into account in that report, that is to say those basic defence policy fundamentals, so that, on the basis of this report, it does not leave me any doubt — of course, the report is being discussed and the necessary clarifications are being made — that the current system is not being blocked very strongly, because it works and is to be maintained. On this basis, I believe that, when we move on to a defence report, we will be in a very good position to maintain and maintain this broad consensus on the security of the country in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u132	Mr President! We have a report from the Government on foreign and security policy here, and this is a very important and very impressive document which we have been given in cooperation here among the parties. Of course, we have some differences of opinion about it, but this is the product of cooperation between us parties. Here in my opinion there is too much place in such terms as “climate change”,setting in the wind a number of times. Of course, foreign and security policy is influenced by a number of different factors. Today, an HX project has emerged from these discussions, and the security of supply and maintenance provided by our agricultural country has also emerged. The representative, Hoskonen, has shown the importance of Finnish peat for the security of supply in our society for months and thanks to him for that. I wish he was on the board. This is something I would like to comment on myself: For myself, I see that peat is a natural resource from the Creator to our country. We should use it wisely and sensibly, and we have a very large amount of energy in it that will safeguard our own society here. If we now go down very hard to drive down, just as the government's common will is, it will cause us a vacuum in our own energy reserves, and such effects on the turf shutdown are long lasting. Certainly not many people in this Chamber realize that if they start driving them down now, they will no longer be lifting them up at the turn of their hand. This is so important and I would like to thank Mr Hosko for maintaining this point. This is also the case that there are many peat entrepreneurs in Finland who have invested a lot in equipment, they have invested in land. I've had a conversation with one of the entrepreneurs and his close associates. They currently have 460 hectares of peat production and have the same amount purchased. I do not really know how this society will then compensate these peat entrepreneurs for this problem they have caused by legislation. They're gonna fall on nothing. I don't know how their health can deal with this kind of thing, that they pull the rug from under their feet and at worst they have big debts and a lot of swamp, peatland, where they don't do anything. This peat is also used as a bedding material for food production, and this has been a good bedding agent in such a way that this has not caused any mold dust lung, as other types of bedding are. All right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u133	Mr President! I have come back to say so much about this energy policy that it is part of our foreign and security policy, it is security policy. After all, foreign policy means that we are influenced by our neighbouring countries or our close trading partners. But we must remember from recent history that we do not need to go further than Europe when the fates of the nations have been influenced, including through gas pipelines. There is currently a debate in the Baltic Sea on Nord Stream 2, whether it is to be built to the end or not. Or, when there were problems in Ukraine between neighbouring countries, it directly influenced the domestic policy of another country through its energy policy, certainly did. And now that we ourselves are getting into a situation, no politician, no leading Finnish politician, has raised this problem that we are becoming increasingly dependent on energy imported from abroad. It's a huge risk. I am very sorry about that, Mr President, and I dare even say that tomorrow, of what I have said and what I have mentioned, none of the newspapers will say anything. All I've heard on the radio is a little mention here in the aftermath of some minor program, that there are such things. This is extremely serious for us Finns. If we do not take care of our own security on the energy policy side too, one day that will walk against us. And now we have had a lot of talk about the fact that, by increasing the use of bioenergy, we are replacing the cessation of peat burning — when we do not have it. And then world trade, unfortunately, is a harsh, ruthless trade. The price is taken where you can get it. When the seller knows that this kingdom is forced to buy even so much energy, it is a security threat immediately, because it places such a price on our buyers that Finnish buyers fall out of the game immediately. The creation of such an addiction by its own decisions is completely unwise and, in my opinion, unforgivable. In this bigotry we have forgotten the facts about climate policy. It is no longer clear that coal, wood and peat produce one megawatt when we produce energy, the same amount of climate emissions with 10 percent accuracy. No reporter has written about this, no TV show has told us. It is a huge security risk for us. I hope, Mr President, that Parliament will take the lead in this matter. I know that I may not have had any more partners in this debate on this issue either. I can see here the person who signed it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u134	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Hoskose, for your excellent speech. I want to continue with this security of supply perspective. Natural resources have now been mentioned here, but I would also like to extend this debate to the use of forests, both from a foreign policy point of view and from a security policy point of view. After all, in recent years foreign operators have come to our forestry sector in the direction of major investments in factories, especially in the case of the Chinese, and I believe that this too should be brought to the debate at this stage. But I want to say so much about this climate issue that with interest we will be watching for the coming years and decades whether this climate change in other countries will lead to such big situations that some clean water, for example, will begin to run out, and in what way it will then put people on the road. And that, from a geopolitical point of view, I would like to point out to this end of the long debate that the opportunities for the Arctic region are worth our while as Finland, which is where there are plenty of opportunities. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u135	Thank you. — Almost 90 speeches have been made. Is it the case that the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niikko, will close the debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u136	Mr President! A very good debate has been heard here today, and in that sense it is very important that foreign and security policy is considered from a wide range of perspectives and dared to throw ideas into the air so that we can go from outside our own box to look at the direction in which things can be developed. In this context, it must certainly be said separately that I am speaking as a Member of Parliament at the moment, and not so much in the role of chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs — the time will come when the report is ready and the joint speeches of the committee will be made. Mr President! The safer it is in the world, the safer it is in Finland. It is certainly a good thing to take a broad look at the foreign and security policy report, as has now been done. However, I would like to draw attention to one aspect of this report that has not been given much thought. The combination of external and internal security is a fact and should also be considered as a whole in any consideration. The report deals very little with this aspect. External and internal security are strongly intertwined, for example in the fight against terrorism. The UTP measures and peacekeeping have been mentioned, but the role of the police and the Border Guard, for example, has not been raised at the time when the security of our country has been considered a threat to some of the people who have come here. The whole, however, determines, and in that sense this kind of cross-administrative view is the most best approach to these issues. Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we easily have this reflection on foreign and security policy as a matter of value. Today we've seen it here and heard it. The spearhead should be state independence, territorial integrity and the security of Finland and Finns. Of course, in this context we will also consider what is happening in the world, but this focal point is, however, the ‘selfish’ approach to what we consider to be good for our own country and our citizens. Instead of idealistic values or values, we need a more goal-oriented, credible and structured foreign and security policy and, of course, its guidance. Mr President! I would like to make a few comments on this report. In the report, references to Finland’s national interests have been completely deleted. The promotion of national interests is only mentioned in the negative context of US protectionism and excluding nationalism. Instead, the report talks about promoting EU interests and global objectives, such as Agenda 2030. The 2016 report justified actions and different views seven times that it was ‘in Finland’s interests’, not once. Ideological emphasis is perhaps in the report, could you say, in a slightly large role. Global human rights have been highlighted as a central focus and value. There is nothing wrong with it, but I think that these are again unrealistic ideas that Finland could change whole big things elsewhere in the world or bring about such changes that they would become such big questions that they alone would correct Finland's security. Furthermore, before time runs out, I would also like to highlight the point that migration is being said to be well-managed and regulated. According to the report, ‘major part of migration has been regulated and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u137	Mr President! There are a couple of things that I would like to mention after what I have just said. The concern is that a great deal is not mentioned in this report on foreign and security policy about our own food supply and the security of food supply. This is an unusual situation in Finland at the moment. Agriculture has fallen into a rather unsustainable situation. The farms are under terrible pressure to expand all the time, and yet, after the expansions, as a threat and risk to this kind of large power production — if that word can be used now — are animal diseases that the world may be carrying and giving birth to us. Finnish farmers and dairy producers and meat producers are in a very bad situation at the moment. For them the load has grown and, you might say, the result has changed over the years. The space that once provided for two people today barely sustains one and not even one of its right — it has already had to be expanded to be able to support one. This is the kind of thing we need to pay attention to in the future. Another thing I want to raise here: I think it's a little strange that we use this kind of... Here on page 9 I read: ‘The changes in the patterns of globalisation and economic inequality have partly fed the rise in social and socialism and provided a When you think about this sentence a little bit, it is because of the politics that have been practiced here. It's just that. You've ordered this yourself, and you're getting it now. This is a very simple matter. During the day, a representative, if I recall correctly, used the word ‘perinationalism’. Where is the forgotten word “extreme left ”? They are perhaps two opposite directions, and there has been more than one before, and now the other has got a foothold. This is because of this security situation in Finland, people's concerns, how they feel their security environment has changed in Finland. I think we will come back to this when we talk more about internal security, but I just want to say that this has been ordered and this has been obtained. Of course, we must promote the national interests of Finland and the interests of the Finnish people as a matter of priority. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u138	Mr President! I would like to make a few brief comments on this report. The aim of foreign and security policy is to strengthen Finland’s international position, to safeguard the independence of the state and the integrity of the region — and in short to strengthen Finland’s security and well-being, and to maintain the functioning of society. The international objective is a more stable, predictable and secure world. Despite the tightening of the international situation, Finland is not facing an immediate military threat. However, military force against Finland must be provided for and threatened with it. In the current state of Finland’s foreign and security policy environment and in light of its potential for development, Finland has neither the opportunity nor the desire to isolate itself. Mr President! The fundamental value of the report is the promotion of human rights, the rule of law, democracy, peace, freedom, equality and equality in all international activities. In addition, the objective here is to provide security through climate change mitigation, as well as through the implementation of sustainable development objectives in foreign and security policy, with a view to reducing poverty and inequality. However, the report shows that there is a strong change in the operating environment, and in that respect I would like to highlight the relationship of power and the rule-based international system. The system is under increasing pressure because the great powers have traditionally had a significant responsibility to maintain it and at present the superpowers are pursuing their own interests very strongly. China is seeking to change the agreed rule-based international system from within to reflect its own views. Similarly, the United States assessed the benefits of multilateral cooperation more selectively and has withdrawn from many commitments. Russia, on the other hand, has undermined security through its actions against international law and the use of military force. Mr President! These are key points, and we will certainly have to take a closer look at them when they are discussed. Then I would like to mention the trends in the various regions. Finland’s security environment has changed in a more volatile direction, and it is thought that the change will be long-term. The security situation in Finland and Europe is difficult to predict. Changes in the security situation in the Baltic Sea region, the Arctic region of Finland and The North Atlantic is closely linked. In addition, Turkey's internal development, foreign and security policy and regional efforts by the superpowers are of great concern. When one remembers that the melting of the Arctic region has increased the temptation to exploit the region untenablely, it will perhaps also be seen in the future as a potential geopolitical security threat or at the centre of the dispute. In addition, the Middle East and Gulf region remains at the heart of international policy. Finally, the strategic and commercial-economic importance of the African continent has increased strongly. Mr President! As a result of all this, Member States have different views on developments in the EU, among other things. We have different views on migration issues, human rights issues and actions in the Middle East, for example. There are shortcomings within the Union in respect of the rule of law. The UK's resignation from the EU will have an impact on the Union as an international player — the great powers are challenging the Union's unity very strongly in the future. Mr President! Finally, before the time runs out, I would like to highlight the importance of cooperation between Finland and Sweden in the field of foreign and security policy. Sweden is Finland's most important partner with the same views on the security environment. We share the same views on cooperation areas, such as, among other things, joint work on situational picture cooperation, host country arrangements and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u139	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u140	Mr President! The Government's proposal concerns the adoption of the Agreement on Mutual Protection of Security Classified Information signed between Finland and Ukraine in September 2019 and the Act on its Enforcement. The purpose of the Agreement is to ensure the protection of classified information which is exchanged or produced in cooperation between the Parties, in particular in the fields of foreign, defence, security, police, science, business and technical matters. Contracts are negotiated on the basis of Finland’s national or commercial cooperation needs. Finland has a wide network of information security agreements with the EU and NATO countries. In addition, agreements have been negotiated with non-member countries for commercial or governmental interests. The agreement therefore improves, for example, the competitive position of Finnish companies in tenders in Ukraine. This is a sensitive data set that is specifically classified in the States Parties as requiring a high level of information security. For example, the data security agreement allows Finnish companies to obtain orders or participate in projects that require access to the security classified information of the contractor. Mr President! However, the Information Security Agreement does not oblige the parties to exchange classified information. The task of the Information Security Agreement is to enable cooperation involving the exchange of classified information in such a way that the disclosure party can be sure that the receiving party will keep the information secret and process it properly. The information security obligations contained in the Agreement primarily affect how authorities and individuals subject to the obligation handle classified information and how the security of premises and personnel is ensured in these matters. Ukraine submitted a preliminary proposal to Finland in February 2016 for the conclusion of an information security agreement between the two countries. The actual negotiations were launched in early November 2018 and finalised in autumn 2019. The information security agreement was signed in Kiev this autumn 12.9. Representatives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the National Protection Police and the Finnish Communications Agency participated in the preparation and negotiation of the agreement. The provisions of the Agreement are in line with the provisions of the Law on International Information Security Obligations and with the provisions of bilateral information security agreements already entered into force in Finland. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u141	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for presenting this point. This government proposal is therefore about the agreement between Finland and Ukraine on classified information. The security situation in Ukraine has, of course, been talking for a long time, and unfortunately there was little room for it in that debate a moment ago. However, the security situation in Ukraine is also relevant to the security situation in Finland and also to the security situation in the EU. In many respects, Ukraine also protects the EU's eastern border, not just its own. When the Foreign Minister is here and spends time here in Parliament, I would like to raise this second agreement, the Minsk agreement, and I would have liked to have heard what the situation is with it. In March this year, you met the Russian Foreign Minister, Sergei Lavrov, in Finland, and you had discussions at the time, and I know and believe that this issue was also on the table at the time. Since then, the situation in Belarus has also, of course, worsened, and from time to time there is a feeling that this situation in Ukraine and, above all, in Eastern Ukraine will not be overshadowed in some way by other crises and events. It would be interesting to hear from the Secretary of State about this. So I'd like to ask you: How? The Minsk deal is moving forward? Is this the Minsk agreement by the so-called Normandy Group the road that seems to be pulling now or is it drawing? And I'd say, Then, alternatively, are the negotiations between the USA and Russia on the situation in Ukraine, which has also taken place, the path that seems to be taking place now? And how will the change of President of the United States, for example, affect this possible debate between the United States and Russia? Or is it that, at the end of the game, Mr Foreign Minister, that solution to the situation in Ukraine could be found on the basis of the trilateral Ukraine-Russia-Etyj negotiations? What do you think of the three roads most likely and currently leading: the Normandy Group, the bilateral negotiations between the USA and Russia, or the trilateral negotiating basis?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u142	Mr President! We have just had a debate on a recent report on foreign and security policy, and the report highlights not only the strengthening of multilateral cooperation but also the aim of exploiting the potential of digitalisation but also of minimising the risks involved and of contributing to the international debate. This government proposal before us really concerns a joint agreement between two countries, but it states that there is no multilateral convention in the field of information security, as the Minister has already said. Of course, we have a number of agreements with the Nordic countries, but also agreements between the EU Member States on the protection of classified information. Information security is currently emerging in a large number of sectors of society, in fact every sector of society, and this proposal is also important for economic activity but also for industry and technological cooperation. I would have liked to ask Minister Haavisto: how is the international debate at the moment on the Convention on Information Security, whether there are any such debates, whether we are going to have such an agreement? And how does this now relate to this very topical debate on information security, including between states, and when these agreements come to the benefit of other actors in society?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u146	Mr President! Good questions. Mr Salonen asked a little about the scope of these international agreements and precisely about this network of information security agreements. After all, Finland has welcomed both large-scale agreements on information security within various organisations and then these bilateral tasks, which are quite a long list. And when you refer to today's security situation, this will certainly affect the assessment by all of us authorities of the security guarantees that these arrangements should have. As I said, there are many parties involved in these projects — the Ministry of Defence, the Protection Police, Traficom. Mr Al-Tae's question: as far as I have understood this correctly, it is, for example, a question of the interests of Finnish companies when they want to enter the Ukrainian market and it would be a question of materials related to projects that need to be treated in a secure way and in a different way. This in itself is not binding on anything, there is no such regular exchange of information or of this type — it is decided individually by each ministry and body — but this provides the framework, and these agreements have been concluded with a large number of countries. I would very much like to go with Mr Heinonen to a slightly deeper debate on this situation and the rest of the Minsk Treaty, but when I fear that the President's big jerk will blow up on the point of perhaps going a little further, let us say that we are, of course, following the economic development of Ukraine and we hope that this economic development will be accelerated — Mr Al-Taee referred here to the risks of corruption and this type of situation. It is in our interest that the Ukrainian economy should develop in a stable and beneficial manner, and this agreement will contribute to that. Then, separately, we can go back to these treaties, the Minsk Treaty and others. Perhaps as a general observation, the interest rate situation has also been slow in many ways if you look at the OSCE presence there in Eastern Ukraine and others, including Finnish participants in the OSCE mission. Unfortunately, the interest rate situation and then perhaps this general expectation of the US presidential election have slowed down many international processes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u147	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u148	Mr President! Finnish society and the business community are largely dependent on the transport of goods by sea. Nearly 90 per cent of Finland's exports and 80 per cent of imports are transported by sea. Passenger car ferries are an integral part of the Finnish logistics chain with scheduled buses. About 10 per cent of the goods transported by Finnish sea are transported by passenger ferries. The importance of passenger ferries has increased in recent years. More than 60 per cent of the exports and 50 per cent of the imports of the goods are transported by passenger ferries. The bulk goods are typically finished products such as food and other grocery and consumer goods. The proposal provides for a temporary amendment of the law on improving the competitiveness of vessels used in maritime transport by the State to repay, in support of maritime transport, the employer’s contribution to the employer’s health insurance contribution, the employer’s contribution to the unemployment insurance contribution, the group life insurance contribution and the employer’s share of the voluntary free-time accident insurance and leisure supplementary insurance contribution. This proposal is very important and welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u149	Mr President! Minister Harakka apologised for not being able to present this proposal. He would very much have liked to have presented this himself, but he is currently in government negotiations where he must be present at the moment, so as chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, I would like to say the following about the proposal: Mr President! The Government proposes to Parliament that a law on the temporary amendment of the law on improving the competitiveness of vessels used in maritime transport be adopted. According to the proposal, the law would be temporarily amended so that, in support of maritime transport, the State would reimburse employers for the employer’s health insurance contribution, the employer’s share of the unemployment insurance contribution, the group life insurance contribution and the employer’s share of the voluntary free-time accident insurance and leisure supplementary insurance contribution. The law would apply only to aid paid on the basis of the costs incurred in 2020 and the proposal would not change other elements of support. The aim of the proposal is to mitigate the economic damage caused by the covid-19 pandemic to the maritime sector and to support the competitiveness of the industry. The proposal would provide a better financial capacity to adapt to the situation and would support the competitiveness of the business sector and thus also Finnish security of supply. In particular, the proposal would support the continuity of maritime transport, which would be of great importance to the functioning of society and industry. International competitiveness of ships flying the flag of Finland directly affects the number of Finnish employed seafarers and the wider scope of the Finnish maritime cluster and the fact that expertise and expertise in this field remain in Finland. The proposal also supports the achievement of this objective. The proposal relates to and is intended to be dealt with in the context of the supplementary draft budget for 2021. Mr President! In an export-driven country such as Finland, maritime transport plays a key role in the whole business life. Nearly 90 per cent of Finnish exports and 80 per cent of imports are transported by sea, so maritime transport is important for the national economy as a whole. As chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, I think it is very important that maritime transport, which has suffered from corona, is supported in every possible way. It is central to our entire economy. We will therefore be happy and quick to take this proposal to the committee. In fact, as early as today, the committee has consulted experts on this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u150	Mr President! The government of Prime Minister Marin has taken a number of steps to improve the business environment in this midst of the pandemic crisis, and this is one of the measures that the government is now taking. This is a very important area when we are talking about maritime transport, particularly with regard to security of supply, as we have already heard. Before the corona pandemic, it was envisaged that in Finland a maritime cluster could even double its size. The expectations for the sector are therefore high and the opportunities and potential are high. Even at present, the cluster has employed 50,000 people and its turnover has been around EUR 13 billion. The growth and development of this whole sector is very important to our economy. It is therefore crucial that, in this crisis situation, we can do all we can to support maritime transport beyond this crisis, so that, as Mr Löfström said earlier, we can, hopefully with this vaccination, make it possible to do so, at a time when we will be able to live up to the growth of maritime transport, and now we will be able to do so. As Mr Kymäläinen said, this has been done before. Thus, the maritime industry is supported by various means, and this is very important because this current crew support law protects maritime transport in Finland. It is crucial that we keep these ships under the Finnish flag, precisely because Finland is dependent, highly dependent, on exports by sea and imports. Nearly 90 per cent of Finland's exports and 80 per cent of imports are transported by sea. This too has now been specifically notified with the EU in advance, I would recall. This is important, because it is of course important that every time we support the activities of companies it is also done in the light of the neutrality of competition. But this is important for Finland and, in particular, for maritime transport, and I thank the Government and Minister Harakka for this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u151	It is excellent that presentations are being imported that tighten and empower Finnish exports right now. All jobs are needed, and in these previous speeches it has been well pointed out how important this proposal itself is. One more piece of Marin’s Government’s strategy will re-emerge Finland’s economy after the interest rate. When maritime transport is supported in general, maritime transport is supported, I myself have called for it to include the idea that ship combustion engines can be developed in a more environmentally friendly way. New ships are on this path, of course, but also old ships could be linked to various possibilities for reducing emissions, fossil emissions, especially in maritime transport. I have called for the different forms of assistance, aid and legislation to be linked to such possibilities, that it would be cheaper and more sensible for maritime transport to move towards greener engine technology. Here I personally would like to see more input from ministers, both Minister Haraka and other ministers, the Minister for the Environment, to be able to bring forward proposals of this kind in order to speed up the green transition in maritime transport as well. This is an important proposal for the Finnish economy, as I said earlier and in these speeches I am very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u152	Ärade talman, Mr President! Sjöfarten är naturligtvis en verkligt viktig del av Finland och att vi hålls Levande, och precis som för många andra har också sjöfarten under det rai senaste coronaåret drabbats valdigt, valdigt hårt. Finland är på många sätt som en ö, och det handlar också om att allt som kommer in till landet och nästan allt som kommenter ut från landet transporteras sjövägen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u153	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here on the content of this proposal. In other words, it is above all the fact that, at the moment, the State is already supporting these companies in such a way that employers' contributions are refunded, inter alia, in respect of pension contributions and, accordingly, also the withholding tax provided for in the Income Tax Act on maritime labour income will then be extended to cover other secondary costs on a temporary basis. And it is certainly the case that temporary measures such as this need to be able to secure the conditions for Finnish shipping. We have heard here recently, when the Committee on Transport and Tourism has already started to deal with this issue, how serious the situation in this sector is. In other words, unemployment has increased very significantly. And, of course, we have to hope that we can get a piece of it back to normal. Here I would say that, in fact, I find it quite impressive how the Security of Supply Agency, by its own actions, has again bought this transport from the shipping companies and thus also ensured that, at the worst time of this crisis, transport has also moved forward. And the IGC must be given warm thanks in this respect for the fact that they have done well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u154	Mr President! Finland is currently in the process of drawing up an operational programme for maritime policy and was originally due to be completed in early 2021. Now, I don't exactly know, that's what I would have asked the Minister. This interest may have delayed the completion of this programme, but on the other hand it is the epidemic that has caused us to see at the same time Finland's extreme dependence on maritime transport. It may be a good thing that, in this situation, in which the entire maritime sector has faced a slump, we will also be able to define the future more precisely by means of this programme of measures for maritime policy, perhaps even in a completely new context. However, Finland has an excellent opportunity to profile itself as the global influence of maritime policy and to bring solutions to how the use of marine resources can be sustainable and how maritime logistics will also be safe and environmentally responsible in the future. One important part of this is that of the seafarers and that we will continue to have Finnish expertise in our own hands with regard to the seafarers' population. And I myself have heard a little concern about that shipping, that we have a decreasing number, unfortunately, of these maritime experts, although we are training them in Finland. But depending on the country to which these ships have then been flagged, so also when we lose a ship under Finland, we also lose the expertise of the seafarer population, and this is something that Finland cannot afford either. I hope that this programme of measures will then also be taken into account in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u155	Ärade Herr Talman! Det raus stöder försörjningsberedskapen och finländska sjöarbetsplatser. Det är viktigt och jag hoppas att det raustödet också skulle kunna fortsätta för nästa år och också göras permanent, viket skulle stärka den finländska flaggans kkonkurrenskraft också på lång sikt. Ledamot al-Taee tog upp en mycket viktig sak, nämligen att göra sjöfarten mera milövänlig. Det är mycket viktigtigt, och sjöfarten internationalellt har förbundit sig till starta klimamål och att minska sina utsläpp, och det är är också viktigt för Finland, som har en stor marin tekniikka, vilket vi hörde tidigare att ledamot Salonen lyfte fram. I ledamot Salonens och ledamot Marttinens hemort Raumo byggs nu två stycken milöväliga passagerarforsor som kommer att driveas med LNG, flytande naturgas, och är bland de bästa som finns i classic med dagens technology. I Vasa, ledamot Strands hemort — han talar ofta om exportklustret i Vasa — görs världens mest effektiva motorer och fartygsmotorer. I Helsingfors görs avancerade propulsionssystem och let technology för sjöfart. Det är är ett Jättestort kluster för hela Finland, och min förhopppning är att man skulle titta från regeringens siida på hur man nu kunde använda EU:s coronaräddningspengar till att också töda den marina tuknologin i Finland och göra den mer milövänlig. Det går handke med de målsättningar som finns för EU-pengarna, och det skulle också töda finländska arbetsplatser och exportframgångar. Men för att det rauta ska fungera så behövs också en Levande sjöfart med rederier och sjöarbetsplatser på finskflagade fartyg, och därför är det raustödet så viktigt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u156	Mr President! The Covid-19 pandemic has had a negative impact on society as a whole and on all sectors of the economy and, above all, on sectors dependent on international contacts. This aid therefore aims to reduce the cost of employing Finnish seamen to Finnish employers and thus to support the cost competitiveness of shipping companies compared to other countries in the current challenging economic situation. By way of derogation, this proposal for this year would refund to employers, in support of the payments that were abolished in the context of the 2016 reform of the seamen’s pension scheme. This change is therefore one-off and only concerns this year, 2020, and this is directly due to a corona pandemic. We therefore need a new proposal and a decision for next year — in this context, we will only deal with this proposal. As I said earlier in my speech, all measures are needed to maintain maritime expertise and know-how in Finland, and this proposal is one part of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u157	Mr President! It is also an excellent proposal because it opens the door for us to discuss how this could be continued next year. Mr Löfström spoke of environmentally friendly shipping, and I think he was good at linking it to the EU support package. When the EU aid package has been specifically aimed at the green transition and the green transition – that is, there will be about EUR 3 billion coming, I do not know when the last time in Finnish history such a boost has been given to the Finnish economy – I would see that it is Mr Marttinen and Mr Salonen Rauma who could be one of these beneficiaries, one of these municipalities that will receive its support, so that this environmentally friendly shipping can be developed even more quickly, and this will then create the conditions for Finland's exports, as shipping will be part of this world's going to the future. And when Finland specifically sells this environmentally friendly in this tightening regulatory world towards a more fossil-free future, now would be the time to forge. At this point I would really like to see the best possible understanding of this EU support package in Rauma and Vaasa and elsewhere, so that both the planet and the Finnish citizens can thank you. And I really wish one day I could learn to speak Swedish as well as Löfström and our wonderful interpreter, who translates these things so skillfully so that I can also have this conversation in Swedish with you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u158	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u159	Mr President! The countermo-gate has greatly shaken people's sense of safety, not only as regards the fact that therapy information, very personal information, has been opened up to all those willing to read, but also as regards the possibility that personal data may have ended up in the wrong hands. The need for strong protection of personal data is acute and obvious. This presentation would provide for the taking of fingerprints, the technical part of the ID card and its security, and the reading of fingerprints and facial images. The proposal as such is to be welcomed. According to Prime Minister Sanna Marin's Government Programme, special attention will be paid to improving people's safety, preparing for new security threats and strengthening security experience. With regard to the recording and comparison of fingerprints, this proposal also seeks to prevent the misuse of personal data, which is why this is a very important proposal in this period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u160	Mr President! This proposal that fingerprint identification should be on these identity cards in the future will, of course, respond to this security concern that Mr Salonen spoke about a moment ago. But here is another angle that this should gradually be able to develop forward, and it is a strong authentication principle and mode of action. This strong identification is now carried out through the identification systems of private banks, and it is strange that in public administration too, we have to ratify the signatures through the protection provided by private banks. This personal information system and card system should be developed genuinely and as quickly as possible in order to ensure that this strong form of identification is public rather than private banks' key figures and other controls.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u161	Whether it was part of the banking system or under public administration, I feel strongly that as we continue to tighten up the ways in which we make a strong identification, so much of the Finnish citizens are excluded from this technological development and this leap. This has led to it and we have seen that there are an hour or two-hour queues outside the banks and more agencies and institutions of older people, elderly people who have not been able to do their business digitally in one way or another. And when we consider this type of digital leap in this proposal too, we also need to consider how we can also treat these elderly people who have been left behind and who are getting away from this leap on an equal footing and on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u162	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u163	Mr President! During the corona virus epidemic, the government has wanted to ensure the survival of citizens through a number of measures, and now the government's proposal to amend the Student Aid Act so that it is proposed to take account of the failure to start studies and the delay in studies due to the covid epidemic in the terms of the student loan credit. It is also proposed to take into account the delay in studies in the terms of the student loan reduction. Mr President! Access to the student loan credit and its deduction is subject to the completion of a degree within the time limit. Therefore, the performance requirement could be exceeded in the future if, at the beginning of this autumn term, the start of studies has been prevented for reasons arising from the interest rate. The proposal therefore provides for a clarification of the calculation of the duration of the student credit entitlement to a student loan to a student loan recipient who has first obtained the right to complete a university degree from the academic year 20 to 21. In the course of this change, the period during which a student has been absent from a Finnish higher education institution despite receiving a place of study would therefore not count as a qualification period. The clarification of the calculation rule also applies to students who have not been able to start their studies at a foreign university. According to the draft law, the inability to start studies at a foreign university due to an official decree relating to coronapandemia or other serious reasons related to the epidemic is taken into account and the time spent on completing a degree is calculated only from the beginning of the semester in which the student started to complete a university degree at a foreign university. The change in the calculation rule is estimated to affect a total of around 200 to 400 students, most of whom would be specifically students in foreign universities. The Korona epidemic was surprising, so of course the students who were in the final stages of their studies last spring could not prepare for it. This is why the proposal proposes that students with a higher education degree in the autumn of 2020 should be able to take into account the delay in their studies due to the interest rate. According to the proposal, the duration of the degree may be longer than that provided for by the law in force for one semester for both student loan credits and student loan reductions if the recipient of the student loan demonstrates that his studies have been delayed precisely because he has not been able to complete all the studies required to complete the degree within the prescribed period due to the interest rate. The amendment takes into account the possible impact of the corona epidemic on the delay in studies for those recipients of student loans covered by credit or deduction who should have been completed by the end of the academic year 19 to 20, i.e. practically by the end of July of this year. If these student debtors graduate during the autumn semester 2020, Kela can take this into account when deciding on the right to compensation next spring. The proposed flexibility is estimated to apply to some dozens of student loan recipients. Therefore, Mr President, the most necessary amendments to the Student Aid Act are now being tabled. However, the proposal states that the development of the covid-19 epidemic and its impact on study conditions cannot be foreseen even further in the future at this stage, so it is possible that next spring the effectiveness, adequacy and, yes, possible expansion of the proposed flexibility will have to be reassessed. Mr President! This government proposal also includes another timely amendment to the Student Support Act. 1.10. The Act on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the implementation of certain provisions of the Treaty on the European Union and the Treaty on the European Atomic Energy Community concerning residence rights entered into force. According to that law, the application procedure provided for in the divorce agreement applies in Finland when the right of residence under EU law of nationals of the United Kingdom residing in Finland and their family members is changed on application to the right of residence under the divorce agreement. In the Student Support Act, the right of a non-Finnish citizen to study aid is determined on the basis of a legal residence permit. Thus, it is now necessary to lay down in the Student Aid Act how the right of residence of British citizens and their family members who have been granted a right of residence under a divorce agreement is guaranteed in Finland. This proposed provision is necessary to ensure that those British persons entitled to permanent residence in Finland and their family members who have resided in Finland under EU law before the end of the transitional period and who continue to reside in Finland are, after a transitional period, in the same position as nationals of the European Union who have the right to permanent residence in Finland as provided for in Chapter 10 of the Foreigners Act, i.e. the so-called Brexit amendment to study aid. The number of UK citizens who receive student support who have a right of residence in Finland is estimated to be around 150. Mr President! So, in this case again, the government does not leave the students to the circumstances, but does what it can and does with this proposal to safeguard the rights of students covered by study aid in these exceptional times.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u164	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Saarikko, for being in Parliament to present this government proposal. On previous points, despite promises, the ministers were not here, and that is always regrettable. When, in exceptional times, we are doing these things with a little different compositions and the timetables are well known, it would be desirable for ministers to respect this, and for this I thank Minister Saariko, who, by being here too, is respecting Parliamentism. This government proposal to amend the Student Support Act is good and welcome, and, as the Minister said there, covid-19 has also been seen in different ways in the everyday lives of young and older students, as one of the delays in studies, and here as a whole the change in Brexit is also taken into account in the Student Support Act. At some point during the corona crisis, we proposed measures for students. In the summer, when there were major problems in getting seasonal workers into agriculture and the rest of the world, we suggested that we could temporarily abandon the income limits in the course of study aid altogether. It was not taken up by the government at the time, but it would have been one effective way. Of course, when we talk about this whole, we cannot fail to talk about the fact that the income limits for student aid are a very big burden for young people. More than 43,000 recovery letters were now launched in the previous post. We still have students who are being punished for their hard work in this country, and I myself have suggested in the past that we could give up the income limits of the study allowance altogether and make it a model in which, if the studies progress on the planned, agreed schedule, because at least I think it would be more than great for young people to be able to apply for that work experience, no matter what work experience it is, to be able to help there in the nursing home or in the hospital or in the store during their studies. That would be a very effective way. Together, we have proposed that these income limits could be increased by 50%, and this would mean that the annual income limit for nine months would rise to EUR 18,000. In fact, the Finnish Labour Institute has clarified this issue and stated that this would not actually increase state spending at all, but would actually increase state revenue. If these limits on free income were to be increased by that 50%, to EUR 18000,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u165	I'll pick up where Mr. Heinonen left off. I would like to ask specifically about these income limits. How can we support the fact that more and more students can work while studying? And the second question relates to the extension of compulsory education. Now it's free of charge, and at the same time we're paying student aid. How, then, does this show up, and how has this been assessed in the calculations? And then the third question relates to child benefit. Why is it 17 years old, and how is it now linked to this study aid when this extension of compulsory education is involved? How have these assessments been carried out in full?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u166	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Saarikko for presenting the matter, and I will just say briefly, as if from this motion, that the changes are certainly justified and necessary, and it is wonderful and important, as Mr Heinonen has said here, that Minister Saarikko respects parliamentaryism and is presenting these issues to Parliament, as is also the case. It is true that, especially with regard to the LVM proposal, which talked about a rather big issue, I was surprised that the Minister for Transport was not here. But, Mr President, I will also take up the same point raised by my colleague, Mr Heinonen. We have dealt with the Student Support Act several times in Parliament this season, and I believe that there is a common understanding across all parties that it is necessary to do something about the income limits of student support in the coming years. In fact, at a time when, over the years, the taxation of labour has been reduced — which has been an excellent solution — the students have been particularly encouraged to work and hard work — in this situation, because the income limits of the student aid have not been increased at all for the last ten years, which has led to the fact that this means-tested exercise has become increasingly intense and that every year more than 40,000 students have to pay back their study grants because, in addition to all that, they have still worked and worked, they have had work experience, additional incomes, and this is in no way going to make my own sense, how we do not get more smooth and supportive of this system. Some years ago, the employees' research institute carried out a very meritful study in which they stated that increasing the income threshold for student aid by 50% would actually increase the revenue of the general government more than would increase, and I think that the Ministry of Education and Culture has read this study very carefully, and I would urge the Minister to review it again and re-examine it. I really hope that, during this period, Parliament will deal with an amendment to the Student Support Act which would genuinely start to correct these income limits now, because the students have earned it in that respect. And I would now like to ask the minister responsible how you feel about this idea and whether you see the possibility of bringing a proposal into the house in the future to put this matter in order at a time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u167	Mr President! Many speakers have already thanked Minister Saarikko for being here to present this amendment to the Student Aid Act. Of course, we all agree that it is valuable to hear this presentation by the Minister, but in fact I would like to thank the Minister more for having brought this proposal here at all, and in your own speech you ended it with the words that this covid epidemic has been a very wide-ranging test for Finnish society. The government has made every effort to support the different types of population in the difficulties that this covid virus has caused, and you have done so with the strong support of the Parliament, and here is one of those measures now – not to leave students at the mercy of this covid-19, but to recognise that studies may be delayed, delayed and, of course, those credit systems and deduction systems in student loans are in a difficult situation, and now there is a clear opposition from the government when, for one academic year, there is now an extension. However, the debate here has moved a little to another subject, but to the Student Support Act on whether these income limits should be re-evaluated. I do not have a strong view of this matter, but I might recognize its original way of thinking that study time should be dedicated to study. Too many students are, of course, in working life because of it and they want to work, by-work, that student allowance is so small that we can get something on top of the bread. Personally, I would rather make the arrangement that — the internship is separate, and it is related to study — it would usually be good to reserve that study time for that study and then increase the student allowance to the extent that it is possible to study full-time rather than to go down the road to recommend that students work at the same time as a general rule. As I said, there are exceptional situations here and, of course, they are worth always identifying, but a little bit more of these... In my opinion, this has also been the subject of a legislative initiative here within the framework of Parliament, which is, after all, the subject of debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u168	I hope we will stick to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u169	Mr President! It is very good that, in line with the proposal, this obstacle to the start of studies due to the covid epidemic and the delay in studies in the terms of the student loan credit and the delay in studies are also taken into account in the terms of the student loan reduction. However, it will be necessary to review the situation next spring, as the change in teaching arrangements and the cancellation of traineeships will continue to affect a wider group of students than those who are now completing their studies alone. Distance education in higher education institutions will continue as a rule until the summer 21 of this school year, as recommended by the Board of Directors. Since this epidemic is developing and its impact on study conditions cannot be foreseen even further in the future at this stage, it is important that we review it again in the spring and consider whether these proposed flexibilitys are effective, adequate and need to be extended. And I think this is probably what the ministry is doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u170	Then again, Minister Saarikko, a few minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u171	Mr President! To comment on these general comments: First of all, yes, I think it is important that if my own bill is in the Chamber and if the opportunity allows it, then I am happy to present it. The other members of my party are at the negotiating table of the government, taking over the position of my own party there, and I trust that things will progress on both tables, both here and here, and here, the presentation of this matter and the negotiation of the government elsewhere. Then, Mr President, on this matter. The income limits are certainly not at this reading, but since more representatives from both the government and the opposition raised this issue, I would say that this is one of the subjects of an eternity debate on study aid. In fact, it is true that, in due course, it is unfair to pay back the aid itself, which has worked too hard, as it were, within the framework of the support networks, but at the same time it is important to remember that student aid is a social benefit and that the starting point is to compensate society for the fact that a person is in full-time training to prepare for work. When we know what realism is, for example, in the prices of living and living in the capital region, that there is no room for mere study aid, and none of us can promise that it will sometimes be so great that it alone will manage, not in this situation of state finances, that balance will be sought, and the representatives are quite right that the amount of income limits is relatively low, it is lagging behind. It is on the right track, and my attention too is drawn to the fact that the Ministry of Finance's report on additional employment in Finland made this moderate increase in income limits one way. In other words, ‘there is a sure reason to look at’there is But not an unambiguous theme, I recognize that very well. Mr Eloranta rightly pointed out that this is linked to the changed reality of universities in general. We currently have the vast majority of university education as distance education. It is a recommendation, especially in areas of acceleration and spread, and we have a lot of students who have started their studies enthusiastically, and their freshman autumn has been very different from all of us who started our studies in the past. So it is important to recognize that also students [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u172	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 18/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. I shall open the general discussion. — Presentation, Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u173	Mr President! Indeed, in my capacity as Chairman of the Tax Section of the Committee on Finance, I shall be conducting these presentations of the Committee's reports. This is about supporting paraffinic oil, or, in a way, abolishing it, and we in our committee are in favour of this proposal as an unchangeable one. This is to be done in three stages, and the total economic impact of the central government will then be EUR 115 million. Let us say from the outset that it was important in the committee that this phase-out should take place explicitly so that we could gradually get used to it. We therefore consider this to be justified, we propose it without change to accept it. Some experts considered this to be a bad proposal, but we make quite a lot of sense in this report as to why this should be done. One thing — not insignificant — is that this tax subsidy has become unjustified in this way. This is because, again, we are talking about the EU and its directives and so-called prohibited state aid, and now, in a way, this environment has changed so that it no longer has the same basis, that this tax aid has positive effects on environmental policy, because it no longer exists. Vehicle fleets have developed, and initially this tax subsidy was based on the fact that it explicitly had positive environmental effects on the local emissions in the urban area, for example in bus transport. Now these no longer exist, so the committee believes that this tax subsidy would be unjustified in this respect, and so there is also an EU legal problem here. The second point that we are dealing with in this report is that we are dealing with this a little while, when some experts also felt that the removal of this tax subsidy should only apply to fossils, which is why we are arguing that this chosen path is correct because, in this particular case, the fossility or renewableity of the paraffinic fuel raw material does not matter in itself. And all in all, in this system, the tax model takes these emissions into account through the CO2 tax. That is, in short, the core of the committee's report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u174	Mr President! The Coalition Party and the Christian Democrats in the Committee on Budgets have objected to this motion, and I shall now go over a few key aspects of why we have come to this solution. First of all, this time when we are dealing with this reduction in emissions, it is perhaps the worst possible time to consider the situation in the Finnish economy, the situation in our industry, the situation in the transport sector. Therefore, in the midst of this deepest crisis, when entrepreneurs are fighting between possible bankruptcy and survival and the jobs of tens of thousands of people are under threat, the government would also, as if from the point of view of the general economic situation, use reflection when these proposals will be dealt with. As a second comment, I note that the government has already brought to Parliament the increase in fuel taxes of EUR 250 million, and this proposal has a fiscal impact of around EUR 115 million. It is true that the removal of the emission reduction does not affect the tax treatment of 100% renewable diesel, i.e. Neste MY diesel, because it is in any case subject to a minimum EU tax. However, it must be remembered that when we have quite a lot of these mixtures on the market, where there are 70 % or 80 % of the fossil content and then the rest are this renewable, these are all the mixtures affected by this removal of the emission allowance and will increase the pump price for all these mixtures. Therefore, this will indeed be reflected in the traffic and in the costs that people will have to pay for this. We have pointed out that this reduction in local emissions would be justified as part of a larger transport tax package, which would also allow us to look for a way of going through this elimination in a cost-neutral way, but this time is therefore poorly thought out. It has also been pointed out in the opinions that, given the old Finnish fleet of cars, it might be justified that the reduction in emissions within the area should be maintained for a few years, in which case it would specifically support the use of these newer, cleaner fuels and thus these things would go hand in hand, cleaner fuels and the renewal of the fleet of cars. In fact, Mr President, these are the main points of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u175	Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. A performance by Marttinen. It seems that this current government has taken a very special look at ordinary Finnish drivers. They want to chastise ordinary Finnish motorists with a little left hand and also from the center of the city. Now, for example, 1.8. This year the biggest increase in fuel tax in the whole of the 21st century, i.e. in the whole of the 21st century, came into force — the biggest increase in fuel tax for ordinary Finnish diesel car users and gas car users. In the midst of the deepest corona crisis, this government of Sanna Marin will take such a decision and will, by the way, do so with a presentation by the central finance minister. It has been wondered, ladies and gentlemen of the centre, in the provinces, how we will be able to cope in the future. For many, in this country of long distances, a car is simply a necessary means of transport. At the same time, this government is preparing to pay tolls or congestion charges, which are a huge tax on working, which is going to hit hard on the people in the provinces and regions who have to use their own car and work, for example, inside Ring Three. And at the same time, the city centre has already dug up many times the taxation of buried, satellite-based motor vehicles. Now, last time, Finance Minister Matti Vanhanen suggested that the taxation of motor vehicles would be based on the monitoring of motorists in the future. In fact, this system is extremely expensive to build, and its annual costs are very high. And I don't understand that that ping-pong granny or the hind perch on that Mazda or Corolla would need a device like this. Those annual costs will be higher than the current use of these cars. And since we already have a fuel tax, which in fact is a tax based on use and consumption, I do not understand why we need a new satellite tracking system based on monitoring. By the way, it is also suspicious in some way anyway, i.e. the monitoring system, even though Mr Kurvin, the group chairman of the centre, defended it and said that we already have telephones. It is true that it is everyone's own choice of phone and whether or not to keep it on the way, but it is quite different if the state forces the car to install a monitoring system. And then, at the very last point, the Social Democrats' Minister for Transport, Harakka, has also flashed the fact that the fuel tax would be increased further and then compensated for by us in rural areas so that when I go to refuel, there will be no money in my account, so that those living in the city would pay for the fuelling of Mr Heinonen's car, and, moreover, if there is a low income, there will be a double account in that account. Congressman Zyskowiczhan already went to the gas tank to see if there was money in the account or if there was money in it. And if you are a low-income rural resident — where, by the way, Minister of Transport Haraka’s household income of EUR 40,000, a large proportion of Finns are — then it would be a drastic increase in the cost of driving, especially for those living in cities. But then this paraffinic diesel oil. It is difficult to understand that this government is the only company subsidy,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u176	Mr President! This speech by representative Heinonen sparked a wide range of ideas. I could say at least that, if I do not remember quite correctly now, the Coalition Party has been three times increasing excise duties on transport fuels since 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u191	Mr President! It seems to be the theme day after day that the representatives of the Government Party do not focus on defending their own bill but focus on what the Coalition Party has done, does, perhaps does and so on. If you have such an enormous need in a certain way to seek that approval of the acts of the Coalition Party, then go along with that calculation of income taxes. It can then together praise each other for what has been achieved. However, as Mr Heinonen and Mr Marttinen have very well described to us this proposal, we can certainly all agree in this Chamber that the proposal that comes from the government is simply not to be supported. What amazes me is that I feel like I'm here day after day to talk, to speak for Finnish industry and entrepreneurship, and every time I have to be disappointed by those government performances — well, this may be a bit of a quarantine, but still. I'm really sorry about this. When, in this situation, we should support our industry, our entrepreneurs, then action is not in line. Its competitiveness, competitiveness, competitiveness — it does not arise from tax increases, it is simple mathematics in that sense. In the midst of the biggest crisis, we simply cannot afford to risk jobs, and that is what competitiveness is all about: jobs, jobs for Finnish people, and thus a better life and the opportunity to influence our own choices. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u192	Mr President! Just a brief word about the matter, when Mr Kiviranta, an experienced representative of mine, was excited to give a speech. I would just like to say to Mr Kiviranta that it is true that previous governments have also tightened the fuel tax, but as a key difference to this left-wing government: Previous, Juha Sipilä's excellent central right-wing government decreased the wage tax on hard-working Finns by more than EUR 1.3 billion. This was one way, as it were, of seeking the indirect tax base for the most important one, that is, the one who gets up in the morning and goes to work, to see in his account tape the difference in relation to the other one — the one who does not rise or leave. Therefore, I do not think that these issues should even be confused in this Chamber, because this government is a major tax pusher and debt-taking started to grow by more than one billion after this government had done its programme, which means that this change of course is quite a change of direction. The representative of Kiviranta also dated this step-by-step removal and, as it were, what the removal of this close-to-miss emission reduction for paraffinic diesel will be. It is true that the proposal has quite rightly been prepared in the sense that this deletion has been amortised, but the 23rd level, however, talks about the effect of 5 cents per litre. If we think that this is going to come on top of the fact that the government has already made a fuel tax increase of EUR 250 million, then we are talking about a rather large whole in my mind if we look at the people who then drive around the province and want to earn their bread. Let me add that I also think that, when I went through them carefully, it was clear that the industry, the entrepreneurs and the transport sector are very critical of this proposal, and I therefore understand it very well. At the moment, when the Finnish economy is in complete turmoil, we are facing a national crisis and the transport sector, industry and companies are in trouble, I think it is a very bad idea for the government to bring this proposal to the House in the midst of this worst crisis. It would have been quite justified to put this on ice now and to follow our arguments that car fleet renewal and cleaner fuels are hand-in-hand, and then we will come back to this when the time is better.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u193	Mr President! Mr Kiviranta spoke here in the Chamber. He did not answer the questions that have been raised here, but he stimulated even more straws, and it seemed to me that the speeches were now mixed up: was this the speech from his house, with which the last supporters from the centre were still convinced to stay in line? It was not very well suited to support this policy of left-wing government. Mr Marttinen has already responded well to Mr Kiviranta’s tuning-up of these straws. This was about the activities of Juha Sipilä's Board of Directors. At that time, the tax on labour was reduced. If the fuel tax was increased, at the same time the car tax was reduced, and all the while care was taken to ensure that the total tax rate fell — not increased, but decreased. And now that you're a left-wing government party, you're going to do it so that all taxes are tightened, the total tax rate is going up, the tax on cars is going up, the tax on work is going up and everyone else is going to do it...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u200	Mr President! Mr Viitanen presented this very well, and Mr Kiviranta made an exceptionally heavy and expert speech on this lack of tax support for paraffinic diesel. It has become, in a way, unfounded, it no longer matters. Here the assembly representatives have launched a wide-ranging debate on the taxation of motor vehicles and, more generally, on the tax guidelines of this current government. And when you referred to the fact that businesses and entrepreneurs are being punished here, it is worth remembering, among other things, the reduction in the tax on electricity, the reforms of the energy tax which have been made here, which have come specifically against industry in energy production — in that respect, this type of debate is unnecessary because we have to look at different forms. Taxes are levied in Finland because public services work here. Mr President, I do not need to start listing everything that taxation in this country deals with, they all go for a common good. And if those reforms are to be carried out — as is the interest subsidies, you have thanked them and in a few moments you will be criticising debt. There's no logic here. There is no logic here, Mr Heinonen. We have been talking about fuel taxation here, and when it is the subject of this once, I will say the only sentence, which is clear here, Mr Kiviranta said it. Regardless of the Government’s colour in Finland, regardless of the Government’s colour in Finland, fuel taxation has been tightened, and in general it has only been for inflation checks. As inflation is progressing, in order to maintain its real value in taxation, it is being raised — and so was the government. So did this government,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u203	Mr President! Of course, this is a bit of a contradiction when you listen to the lines of the coalition. Mr Kiljunen described them well above, and it is, Mr President, so that during the last term, when he was in the government, the Coalition Party and the Finns of Finland raised taxes on gas, among other things, it was raised during the last government,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u213	Mr President! I'm sticking to everything I just said. I understand very well that it is now quite difficult for the assembly to be in the opposition when this government is pursuing a very entrepreneurial policy. The only thing is then to slander that this is a left-wing government, but this government is making a very entrepreneurial policy. I was a responsible negotiator for tax policy in the city centre during the government negotiations and I made sure, together with the other negotiators, that business taxation will not be raised in any way. Representative Kiljunen here correctly stated that this increase in the tax on transport fuels is such a typical index increase that all governments have always made. And there is no more coming. This increase in excise duty on transport fuels has now been made. After all, this government is also historical in the sense that it has distributed unprecedented business subsidies and handled this situation well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u214	Mr. Speaker! Here the chairman of the tax section has already left quite a bit to expand this debate, but I shall try to stick to this paraffinic diesel. I would just like to say to Mr Viitanen that you will then be able to read our alternative budget, which guidelines have been drawn up there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u219	That was a wise thing to say.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u220	Mr President! Let us talk here just a few more moments about this general tax policy, when the assembly insisted on starting it here. In other words, I think, Mr President, that these tax policies as a whole, which this government has done, are very much in favour of the traditional red soil line, that we should go on the basis of fairness: relief for people on low and medium incomes, the high incomes can do a little more.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u223	Mr President! Your conversation raised such little thoughts in me. There has been a debate here about who has raised taxes and other things. Yes, it is true that all governments have done so far. In fact, what I want to say is that it was very stupid from downtown that they started talking about an index increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u226	Mr President! When Mr Viitanen took this to the general tax debate
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u231	Now, ladies and gentlemen, I expect the next speeches to be strictly linked to this title and to this government proposal. — Mr Kausto sets an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u232	Mr President! Thanks for the trust. I'm trying to be worthy of this trust. Now we are talking about an increase in excise duty on liquid fuel, and I was left so badly to listen to that little person on his side. I myself spoke here, and I have been talking about the competitiveness of industry in several days, about the possibility of being an entrepreneur and managing as an entrepreneur in Finland, and that is what this proposal is all about. If these things happen, it is where the jobs come from. They do not come from here by command; they come from entrepreneurs and preferably from those entrepreneurs and probably from those entrepreneurs who manage and have the opportunity to hire people. And yes, I believe that the preservation of jobs in Finland is precisely that small person's side, and I think it would be very important to remember that in these discussions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u233	Mr President! Unfortunately, Mr Heinonen has left the House, perhaps in part the President's desire to focus his attention on this particular point. Then he's gone. I too would like to talk about this point specifically from the point of view that Mr Heinonen has opened here today, that is to say, this abolition of the tax subsidy for paraffinic diesel from his point of view and from the point of view of the assembly representative, all of which means tax evasion, and he was very strongly against tax evasion today. Mr President! Yes, this withdrawal of aid has a fiscal significance. The tax benefit it has is considered to be worth around EUR 115 million, and the next issue, which is alcohol taxation, has a fiscal impact of 50 million. But, Mr Heinonen and other members of the Assembly — but I would refer to Mr Heinonen in particular: Today, therefore, he is opposed to a tax increase, and yesterday he spoke out for tax increases indirectly. When we discussed the amending budget, he thanked the measures taken in relation to the corona epidemic, thanked the municipalities for their support, thanked the support given to the performing arts and so on, and said that this cannot be dealt with by indebtedness. He was a strict opponent of debt, and the only way to deal with them is then tax increases. In other words, Mr Heinonen spoke differently yesterday than today, when, of course, we in the government parties are in a very desperate situation. We must be consistent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u234	Finally, Mr Viitanen, chairman of the tax section.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u235	Mr President! I follow your wish to speak on this matter itself in a few closing words, but I say so much that Mr Heinonen, who unfortunately no longer appears in the Chamber, is not present.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u238	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 19/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Let's go to the general discussion. Chairman of the Tax Division, represented by Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u239	So, Mr President, this is an increase in the alcohol tax, and when we have just talked about these amounts, then this is meant to raise tax revenue in the state treasury for some EUR 50 million per year. And sometimes, when I presented our report to the Committee on Budgets, I said that this is also a very familiar subject for this House, because I would remember that the principle of this has been enshrined in our report since 2004 when it came to reducing taxes on alcohol. Seven times since then, however, alcohol tax has been slightly and moderately increased, so that in itself this formula is not foreign to us, but rather familiar to us each year, and of course it is due again to what is mentioned here in the report, that this has a fiscal significance — referring to our recent debate, we need tax euros — and the second is what the committee also says: we welcome the fact that this has a certain effect on health policy, and that is why, among other things, we consider this to be justified and propose that it be accepted unchanged. So here the idea is that everyone is treated in the same way. Small exceptions can be found there for wines and very mild alcoholic beverages, i.e. their taxation will be increased just a little more than others, and that is because again we need a certain balancing effect in this overall system. At the moment, the taxation of wine is much lower and this tax gap is therefore slightly reduced. And then, as far as these very mild alcoholic beverages are concerned, there is another rather funny flaw that, according to this system, they are now being taxed a little lower than they were on alcohol-free juices and soft drinks, and that is because of the difference between alcohol taxation and soft drink taxation. And this difference in taxes or a certain kind of malpractice is also being corrected here, but the committee also states here in its report that this is not yet clear. So we also call for this whole package, the way it is formed, to be assessed in the future, and that is where we put the entry. This report, quite a bit ago, lists this existing level and its changes, and all in all we say and give some justification for the situation regarding the taxation of wines and very mild alcoholic beverages.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u240	Mr President! I too would like to say a few words about this tax debate. The interest crisis is weighing on the restaurant sector, and I do not think that this is a place for tax increases. In fact, I think that the level of alcohol tax is already too high. Companies in the sector pay more alcohol tax than their turnover, for example Alko in 19. The tax increase risks the good development of alcohol tax revenue in 20 years. The retail sales of beverages have increased during the corona period, which has increased the excise and value added tax revenue of Alko alone to the government in January to July by around EUR 50 million compared to the corresponding period last year. The Finnish alcohol industry is constantly struggling with private imports, and the unfair competitive environment is eating up the income of Finnish companies and the tax revenue from alcohol to the state. Passenger imports specifically from Estonia and Latvia is causing the biggest financial losses for Finland. In 19 years, sales of alcoholic beverages lost EUR 309 million in Estonia alone and tax revenues EUR 76 million. The rise in the price resulting from tax increases also means that the relative competitiveness of restaurant delivery is reduced compared to home alcohol consumption. This weakens the conditions for recovery from the exceptional situation of restaurants as well as employment in the restaurant sector. Mr President! The increase in tax revenues can also be achieved without a tax increase, provided that passenger imports are reduced. This is best reduced by reducing the price difference between Finland and neighbouring regions, not by increasing taxes in Finland. As I have already mentioned, but I will mention again, sales in Alko, for example, in the first half of the year, have already produced EUR 50 million more excise duty and VAT than in the last year and are continuing to do so for the rest of the year. Each of us knows that when the corona makes it easier, the import rally from Estonia and Latvia is starting again, precisely because Estonia's alcohol tax is about one third of Finland's tax level, Latvia's 20 % to 35 % depending on the drinking group. I would also like to mention that the alcohol sector is an important source of employment, providing direct employment for some three thousand people, but indirectly for tens of thousands of people, both in the area of advertising and retailing and in agriculture through the domestic beverage industry. Like many others, alcohol companies have had to lay off and lay off their staff as a result of the interest rate. I would like to ask the government, and I am sure I will ask you more than once whether you are prepared to postpone this excessive tax increase, for example, by one year or to give it up altogether. Time-out or abolition of tax increases would help to save jobs in both the alcohol sector and the alcohol industry and to stabilise business. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u241	Mr President! The Coalition Party has objected to this motion in the Committee on Budgets, and I shall now go over a few comments on our objection. Here the chairman of the tax section well described this proposal and now the content of the report — I will go no further. This has been an exercise by the government specifically seeking this fiscal effect, and it is, of course, its own question as to where taxes must be collected. However, these proposals will always be dealt with in time, of course, in order to assess the situation in Finland at the moment, and we know that the tourism and restaurant sector has faced very serious effects now due to the corona crisis and that a large number of people have been left unemployed. The situation of many companies is very critical. And now, in this situation, we have come to the conclusion that there is every reason to refrain from this increase in the alcohol tax, although the effects of this proposal are moderate, but in any case, of course, all excess is always extra, and here it is justified that tax increases should be withheld. The second point, which relates to this proposal, is that the increase in tax will, after all, further increase the costs of the sector and increase the tax wedge on this restaurant licence, bearing in mind that, in other words, catering only represents 10% of total consumption, which is what it is currently doing at the restaurant. It is alarmingly little, however, when both the impact of passenger imports and the fact that people drink quite a bit at home since then also means that employment in the sector is not improving. Instead of simply introducing these proposals in this Chamber, with which taxes are constantly being increased, we should, together, genuinely reflect on how, first of all, alcohol taxation would encourage and support the gradual shift of consumption to restaurants, in which case it would then take place in the controlled conditions, and then it would support the development of employment in this Mara sector, and, secondly, we should also consider separately how these levels of our tax and our current alcohol taxation are dealing with these passenger imports, which, of course, are currently at a standstill, but we know that there are still... There were quite a lot of programs there, how this tax should be increased, but there the government decided to cancel them, and we also have to take this into account, because otherwise
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u242	Mr President! If I have correctly understood the importance of this small increase, and Mr Viitanen himself said in his presentation, then simply this is a fiscal objective. This is intended to increase the budget by around EUR 50 million. We need that tax revenue. By the way, it is not a one-eyed policy; we have to look at this tax base very broadly and widely, we have to look at it from different angles. One of the reasons for this is that this has a positive impact on public health. I do not know the basis for the calculation, but apparently it has some effect on alcohol consumption, so it can be said that it has a public health impact. What is its significance on a large scale is not stated here. Mr President! I do see one problem in this tax increase, and that is the nature of the tax. This is a genuinely regressive tax. It targets a person with lower incomes more strongly than a person with high incomes, and this regressive nature of this type of alcohol tax obviously exists. Fortunately, this is balanced by the fact that this is a relatively small increase, if I understand correctly, a little over half a percent, 0.7 is the exact figure that this increase will be on average for different alcoholic products, that is to say, it is not a great punishment for the most low-income people, but it definitely has a regressive character and must then be able to compensate for this in other forms in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u243	Mr President! Mr Marttinen gave an exhaustive speech. In that sense, I try not to repeat his good points. This is exactly what I want to raise, and it is still the case that when there is a corona crisis and it has hit the business world very strongly, and the biggest losses in those industries are in the tourism and restaurant sectors, it is a question of when it is the right time to act and whatever. In the restaurant sector, the level of turnover has declined at its worst to an average of one-quarter of the pre-crisis level. What this is all about, once again, is people's jobs, entrepreneurs and their survival. That is what is always at the bottom here, and I do not think that raising taxes is the solution. Even a small raise is a raise. It is known that in the industry, i.e. in the restaurant sector, it constitutes a significant part of the business. It shows that it has a significant impact on the restaurant sector and, in my opinion, it also has a significant impact on people's social life and well-being, that they are allowed to go to a European drinking restaurant to have a few beers and that people are not totally taxed for it. In any case, in general, it comes to the idea that it is simply a question of tax increases, or is it simply a question of a purely government’s negative attitude and doubt about the ability of a person to decide for himself how to deal with alcohol. Then we will talk about the right to sell out restaurants or the right to sell out small breweries, it always seems that this government is the one who says that it knows better than the people themselves, and that is an unfortunate development, because I do not see that it is the way in which humanity develops if the superior always tells me how a person is allowed to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u244	Mr President! The proposed increase in alcohol tax is moderate: the impact on retail prices is about 2%. And, as has been said here, the accumulation of government revenue is the main purpose here. In addition, the aim is to reduce alcohol consumption and reduce the harm associated with alcohol use. Similar tax increases in the past show that the use of this increase has been reduced. In defending this, I have to tell you that I'm following in the footsteps of my grandfather in the sobriety store. Of course, tomorrow I will defend the small breweries and their right to sell out strongly. It is good to increase taxes only moderately so that price increases do not increase legitimate imports of passengers or illegal alcohol. Indeed, in Estonia, the effects of tax increases were quickly noted. Moderate increases were already set at this level of EUR 50 million in the Government Programme. Mr Viitanen has already explained very well how the increase is intended to alleviate the lack of excise duty on, for example, non-alcoholic beer, juice or other soft drinks higher than on a mild beer with an alcohol content just above that limit. In the case of small breweries, the tax burden on beer produced by small breweries would increase less than that on beer taxed at the standard beer rate, thereby increasing the euro-denominated tax differential between beer produced in small breweries and beer sold at the general rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u245	Mr President! Yes, this rather moderate tax increase, as Mr Marttinen said, is largely a question of fiscal impact. On the other hand, this alcohol tax and the taxes associated with substance abuse in general may have to weigh three sets: tax revenue, business life and health. In particular, clear tax changes also have health implications for alcohol. On the other hand, they also have tax effects and passenger imports also have a significant impact under normal conditions. Over the years, this has been a rather challenging environment when overall consumption is, however, a very important issue from the point of view of public health, which needs to be taken into account. President! Let this be a rather moderate increase and a cent per litre effect rather small, and I am inclined to associate myself with the concerns of the assembly with the restaurant industry in the sense that we should think about how to support this sector. Personally, the more we can reduce alcohol consumption at home and increase it under controlled conditions in restaurants, the better. That is why I myself am quite inclined to think more broadly about this alcohol tax, so that a litre of alcohol per cent is a guiding influence and what mild alcohol products are at stake, the lower the taxation would be, and when we talk about hard wines, their taxation would be considerably higher. It would also have a steering effect on public health. Here, of course, we will be weighing up the passenger imports again, so this exercise is not quite easy. It must also be said that, now that perhaps a little cheaper taxation of wines is being tightened up so far and that such blackmail is not so hard on the brewery side among other things, it is, of course, a fairer prospect for the Finnish brewing industry, at least in the sense that now that these imported wines are tilting — since, unfortunately, in Finland we do not have the actual wine industry, apart from the berry wines — it is in the right direction. Finally, perhaps with regard to this alcohol tax: I think that the correction that is now being made in relation to these alcohol-free products which contain little, very little alcohol is a fair tax increase and correction. Although there are shortcomings, as the report states, this small tax increase of around EUR 50 million in this situation is quite moderate and also quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u246	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 30/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u247	Mr President! Indeed, there will probably not be much debate on this now, but I would still like to make a few comments that we went through in the committees. First of all, this is a good objective, but although I am in the government party, I would like to say, in honesty, that unfortunately the implementation of this bill is not so good. We have a goal here to ensure that biofuels, bioliquids and biomass fuels consumed in Finland are produced in a sustainable way. Well, this law will be inadequate in that respect, so we should be able to genuinely secure the sustainability of the energy use of biomass. At the moment, it is not the case, and this law does not yet apply. Of course, this is at the root of the fact that, in principle, in the EU, this directive is not enough and we will be left with the fact that we at national level are able to raise this ambition, to improve it, and to some extent it will succeed, but not enough. These impact assessments also state that the positive effects of this proposal on the environment may be limited, i.e. also taken into account in these background materials. We in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection had a rather critical debate on this and in this committee's opinion we have tried to take account of these concerns, which also came in very comprehensive terms in expert opinions. I am not going to go through all of them here, but I am sure they can be read from there by anyone who wants to learn about this. In particular, there is one point that I would like to raise here, and that is that we in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection considered it important that it should be important, when this proposal is adopted, to strengthen further monitoring of this issue and to strengthen those instruments so that this objective can actually be achieved. And it is good to note that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also shares this concern and these objectives in its own report. In other words, we argued that it was necessary to strengthen the monitoring obligations of the responsible authorities. This is something that we can still influence, and I would like to say that at least the left is prepared to look at the sustainability criteria for these solid biomasses in the future and in the future, if there is a chance to do so. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u248	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 20/2020 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u249	Mr President! This is where our committee unanimously approves this proposal. We are dealing here with an IMF financial system called the NAB, which is subject to certain changes. The previous changes were made in 2011 and 2017. This time the change is about raising this total amount of financing facility, doubling the shares of the Member States, and at the same time it is accompanied by a mechanism that, when this comes into force, the bilateral loan arrangements will be amended so that, for example, Finland's share will fall. As a result, from the perspective of Finland, the amount of state guarantees granted to the Bank of Finland will be reduced by approximately EUR 780 million after these internal arrangements of NAB enter into force and this will be doubled as such. In other words, after this change, the State guarantees granted to the Bank of Finland total approximately EUR 7.2 billion. This is indeed a practice that has been repeated. Whenever changes have been made, it has been done this way, i.e. in a way these loan arrangements are managed by the Bank of Finland, but the Bank of Finland needs this state guarantee to operate. And even according to old practice, this state guarantee is unsecured, and this goes according to the usual pattern.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u250	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Mr. Kiljunen, Mr. Kimmo, I'd like to introduce you to Mr. Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u256	Thank you, Mr Kiljunen. — Mr Hopsu, who has just been mentioned, is next.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u257	Mr President! Today, foreign and security policy has already been discussed and the importance of multilateral cooperation has been raised and underlined. As a small country, the importance of cooperation is emphasised, and active influence can be larger than our size. One of the main objectives of multilateral cooperation is to bring countries — often also global and regional powers — to the same table and, as Mr Kiljunen has just said, to seek solutions through political cooperation to complex issues and conflicts. The oldest and largest fora of multilateral cooperation in Europe is the Political Cooperation and Human Rights Council of Europe, which brings together 47 Member States. One of the main tasks of the Council of Europe is to promote human rights and peace. Over the past year, I have been given the role of rapporteur for the Council of Europe's Culture Committee. My report focuses, as has already been mentioned, on the role of young people in conflict prevention and resolution. At the moment, many young people are working at grassroots level, which is great. However, in trying to catch up to political influence, young people face a wide range of obstacles, such as a lack of recognition, support and funding. It may drive young people to find alternative channels of influence or, in a bad case, radicalise. Young people will then be left with a picture of problems rather than being valued and exploited for their contribution to strengthening societies. Peace and security also include a positive vision of free and democratic societies aimed at improving social, political and structural equality. It is also a question of opportunities and the right to education and a path to decent living. It is important to involve young people in peace processes in conflict areas, but young people must be seen as a natural part of decision-making everywhere, including here in Finland. At present, Finland is the only European country in the process of drawing up a national action programme on the basis of UN Resolution 2250, ‘Youth, Peace and Security’. In the Council of Europe, I therefore encouraged — I think I was at last week’s meeting — other European parliamentarians to send their governments a message of the importance of drawing up national action programmes. A good model is available in programmes such as Women, Peace and Security, which have already been carried out by a significant number of countries. It is important to do this together with young people in drawing up national programmes. Whether it is an armed conflict or the effects of accelerating climate change on the societies of developing countries, we must listen to young people, give them a voice so that we can leave the future generations better able to live a good life. This will also bring lasting and lasting peace. Mr President! In recent years, discussions in the Council of Europe have highlighted the impact of the Internet and social media on the democratic process. I have highlighted both the potential and the threats of the network. The Internet has made it easier for people to know and has given the keys to developing democracy through new forms of participation and influence. However, the content which is deliberately disseminated online, which is not based on research, is also a risk to democracy if the results of the elections and referendums are affected by the deliberate misappropriation of voters. Data is said to have become a new gold, and the Internet user does not necessarily know what kind of algorithms are used to select the content to show him. The views are polarised, even more aware consumers are not protected from this or paid marketing communications. The ability to think critically and the ability to distinguish different texts has become increasingly important. The importance of media literacy as a citizen has increased year by year, and I have emphasised this in the work of the Council of Europe and proposed that media literacy should be strongly included in the curricula and educational content of all European schools. Here too, as Finland, we can have much to offer. For the past year, the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe has highlighted the importance of human rights, freedom of expression, the rule of law and democracy. This is a priority, because Europe, despite its progress, is not an area free from violations of human rights or carriemy. The uprising in Belarus, the conflict in Eastern Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea and the restrictions on individuals and fundamental and human rights in many countries reflect a serious situation that needs to be addressed through cooperation. 70 years ago, one of the most important treaties on the continent, the European Convention on Human Rights, was drawn up within the framework of the Council of Europe. Although we have come a long way in 70 years, both the agreement and the role of the Council of Europe and its Court of Human Rights are extremely topical and important today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-11-ps-143.u258	Mr President! I would like to add a little more to the theme raised here by Mr Hopsu, which is the importance of multilateral cooperation. The Council of Europe already as a body is exactly what he said, the largest human rights organisation in Europe. There are 47 Member States in the Council of Europe, and it is good to recognise that one of them is missing and the one that is missing is Belarus, the one we were talking about just now. Belarus has many reasons why it is not a member there, but the key criterion, which is the basic principle of the Council of Europe, is that the core article of the European Convention on Human Rights is the protection of life and the ban on the death penalty. Belarus is the only European country in which death sentences are still allowed and is a key factor, which is why Belarus is unable to be a member of the Council of Europe. Mr President! This is important in so far as this broader debate on security, which we have had today, also on the European Union, is concerned that membership of the European Union requires the inclusion of the European Convention on Human Rights, and therefore there can be no death penalty in any of the Member States of the European Union. And this is important to note that when we talk about this common value base with which we build this world, we can very quickly list the countries where the death penalty is still in place and which do not share these common European values. It is important to recognise that when we talk about the Council of Europe, this is one of the key points. Furthermore, Mr President, I would just like to say, in the end, that we all recognise the flag of the European Union, right? Blue flag, 12 yellow stars in a beautiful symmetrical circle. This flag of the European Union is ‘stealed’ from the European Council. From the outset, it is the flag and symbol of the Council of Europe, which the European Union has once adopted. Now it is a common European symbol overall. This only reflects the proximity of the Council of Europe to the activities of the European Union, in which, of course, Finland is also an active member.
