ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u2	Congressman Field Fabric, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u3	Mr President! The government's screw-up is so constant that there should be a couple more questions a week. Well, for the public's information, tomorrow we will be able to discuss the illegal activities of Minister Haavisto. Today's business: The Green Left government, with its popular support, is causing thousands of job losses and hundreds of millions of euros for Finnish entrepreneurs and scrapping security of supply. On the market, the government will increase the price of housing even further. Every citizen will be paid for greening. For all of this, the government is ready under green blackmail by destroying the production of Finnish peat. Meeting of 4 December in economic research. According to the study published at the end of the day, the financial losses for machinery and transport operators amount to more than EUR 800 million and some 3500 jobs. Mr. Government, that's seven Kaipola! Are you prepared to cancel the tax increase on the peat that drives down our security of energy supply?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u5	Mr President! The questioner is right that the use of peat has fallen dramatically. Much more than expected, for example, during government negotiations. After all, there is a clear record in the Government Programme that the use of peat will be halved by 2030.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u8	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask supplementary questions to register by pressing the V button in their own place and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u9	Mr President! Not even downtown has the nerve to stand up to the Greens — that is the defenders of the countryside. Leftist Labour parties are in a state of disarray when Finnish jobs are being destroyed. Thanks to the government's tax increases and policies hostile to domestic entrepreneurship, foreign wood chips are already being transported to Finland to replace domestic fuel. [Base Finns Group : Ahhh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u11	Mr President! I understand that the speaker refers to an import application — if I can guess when the questioner did not bring it up. I can say that last year, for example, 1.6 million cubic metres of imported chips were imported and 6 million domestics were used. In 2008, 1.1 million were imported and 2.9 million were spent on domestic land, which means that we are spending more and more on domestic land.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u16	Mr President! The Government's peat policy is extremely harmful to the Finnish economy. This is justified by cutting CO2 emissions, but, at worst, the dismantling of energy peat will increase emissions as peat is replaced by wood chips from abroad. While the government outsources emissions from peat production abroad, the uncontrolled shutdown of peat production will cause losses of up to EUR 900 million and jobs will be lost by 1700 directly and about 3500 indirectly. Any EU aid will also be directed towards repairing the damage to the peat sector when it should be targeted at coping with the corona. I ask you, Mr Government, whether you intend to pursue an ideological climate policy, and how many jobs are you still prepared to sacrifice?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u17	Mr President! For this government, every Finnish job is important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u22	Mr President! Peat is particularly important to Finland. Now I feel that the government is going ahead of the cause and behind reason. That seems to be the case. They want to be shiny idealists at all costs. The Labour Party, how do you feel about jobs, the Rural Party about rural livelihoods? The peat touches all of us, certainly, the one who eats poultry meat or domestic vegetables or warms his house. Peat is also important in poultry, as is peat in gardens. And both of them are in danger of ending when the energy peat is stopped or driven down. It is now the case that energy raw materials are being driven from abroad, and apparently no calculations were made as to how much climate emissions are going to be made or how expensive this will be when we start importing energy from abroad. The experts have been asked about the calculations, and they do not exist — they do not exist. Or does the government have secret calculations somewhere?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u23	Mr President! The questioner is exactly right. We must ensure, for example, the availability of peat for bedding and growth in the future. These are very important. I think that everyone in this room wants to eat domestic vegetables in winter, and they are grown in peat.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u28	Mr President! Mr. Minister, when you listen to your answers, do you really think that peat producers are squealing for nothing?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u29	Mr President! Absolutely not. After all, the situation is extremely serious for them and for the whole of our energy strategy, because this change has been so drastic. No one anticipated a change this fast. Then I very much regret the image that has gone into the field in a certain way that the government is banning peat. There is absolutely no denying it. I would, in fact, in part encourage it to continue to keep production running,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u30	Mr President! It is great that there too the Finnish people are seen the importance of domestic security of supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u34	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to Mr Kalmar that it is worth looking at the alternative budget for peat that has just been published. The situation of peat entrepreneurs is rapidly becoming more difficult. There are bankruptcies ahead. That's what it looks like. There is hope, among other things, for EU funding and a so-called fair transition fund, which could provide resources to support entrepreneurs and the negative impact of the regional economy. However, it has now become clear that the conditions of the fund do not give in to the plight of entrepreneurs. That doesn't sound fair. What is the government’s solution in this situation? The second question is also the other uses of peat that were raised there. It also involves these so-called ‘higher processing’ products. How financial profitability in peat production will be managed in the future,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u35	Mr President! Congressman Sankelo is exactly right. Here is the problem with the economic situation, of course, that if you can't use that energy side, then how does it grow and bedding. Here we have to look at whether national aid is possible to help that side then.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u39	Mr President! The burning of peat and the burning of wood are technically linked, and the durability of these equipment also requires joint use. Now that we have learned that there may be almost a billion losses for peat producers and that there is a mass flight out of this sector and the overall impact is less than 3000 jobs, I would ask the Minister: How do you see now that district heat has to be produced for humans anyway, is there even the danger that when wood is not available, because industry requires wood and it has to go to higher processing, then suddenly we have to resort to coal? Hard coal is very easy to bring here to Finland, and it can be found in the world, and the price is reasonably affordable. Is it a bit old-fashioned to try to do good but to cut back on Finnish work and have to resort to foreign coal? And finally, I'd like to say,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u40	Mr President! It is possible, of course, that we should go for these replacements, but we must remember that, for example, coal was raised by the same amount and then there is the government's decision to stop using coal. So there is a difference between peat in a certain way: there is no decision to stop using peat, there is coal, and the tax rose in the same way. But I'm sure it's one of those things that we're going to have to go over very carefully and relatively quickly now, for example through the first thinnings, the withdrawal of Kemera support, which is what we could do... After all, we must avoid the burning of material wood, which apparently has not yet taken place to the extent that fear exists. But this fear is...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u41	Mr President! There has been a wide range of research into peat, but our energy policy is a whole and should be long-term. Certainly all, as well as the peat industry’s entrepreneurs, have been surprised by the speed with which it has been abandoned. In the past, emissions trading in the EU and now, of course, tax increases have led to it, but the change has been rapid. Hopefully, the government will consider how to help entrepreneurs in the peat sector in this unforeseen situation. On the other hand, ensuring and investing in the long-term sustainability of energy policy, for example through research and product development, and also through investment aid, is of paramount importance that this transition can be made in Finland in a controlled and fair manner, but at the same time quickly enough. How will the government ensure that in future we have not only security of supply but also more clean energy?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u42	Mr President! The questioner is quite right that energy policy is a long-term policy, and it has been deeply distressed by this change, which has dramatically taken place on the peat side. Again, the representative was quite right that this price of allowances has also been a fundamental factor in this situation of peat, that is, if you think about peat, then the two biggest factors will be the price of allowances and the image of it. What will happen in the future: Yes, we need to further increase our research efforts on energy. We know what major energy projects are at present, but we must increase local energy production even more. We have a significant amount of wind power coming, but we have a lot of opportunities for biogas, for example. In general, there is still much room for development in the decentralised bio-side system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u43	Mr President! These distresses of peat producers are not only due to the sudden collapse of the image of peat, but rather to the fact that the government is contrary to its own government programme. [Base Finns Group: Right! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u46	Mr President! The tax decision of the Board of Directors does not specifically concern peat, [Base Finns Group :Oh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, this noise in the Chamber is bound to disturb the public in that way, that is to say, it would rather be spoken in the lowest possible voice if we were to speak. Then interlude calls are allowed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u50	Mr President! The debate on this turf issue is very important. We must ensure our security of supply, especially for the Olkiluoto news today, but also because our energy self-sufficiency must rise to 100%. It is also very important for the competitiveness of our industry, so that energy is in our own hands. However, this whole debate must distinguish between energy peat, peat and peat. We have made great investments in the new activated carbon plant, and there is a great deal of faith in the potential of using growth peat.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u53	Mr President! In my opinion, this is a very central issue in this situation, because it is seen that the amount that has been employed on the peat side will not be employed in the future. There will be employment there — I certainly do not believe that the worst scenario of total closure will happen, because I am quite sure that we will find a model that will sustain growth and drought peat, but also contribute to energy peat. We must remember now all the time that we will continue to need energy peat for the sake of security of supply. That's why I'm here to find out how much peat we're going to have in the future as a security of supply factor, and this combined with this whole thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u54	Mr President! Turpe has somehow become such a climate and energy demon in our time and in this tumult of identity policy and social media, and it seems that the whole climate change is caused by peat. In addition, a lot of people have the wrong idea about peat use. It is not just energy peat, which is also very important. The Centre will ensure that peat continues to be present in Finland. [Laughter from the Versus Finns Group] But, President, first of all, I would like to ask the leaders of the opposition:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u56	Mr President! I am not going to answer this question about the assembly. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u57	Mr President! The government seems to have been held hostage by the Greens on many different issues. The Greens are therefore commendablely arrogant and effective in promoting their own ideology. Examples include the rebalancing of women from one year ago in order to bring Isis to Finland, the continued position of the Minister of the Interior on the side of people who are illegally present in the country, or on the side of the Elokapin hooligans, and, of course, the disciplining of the provinces by raising the price of housing and mobility, and the rapid dismantling of peat. I would like to ask you in particular, Minister Saarikko: is everything all right with you? Like Mr Kärnä, do you and the centre see that the future of rural areas in the cultivation of cannabis?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u58	Mr President! It would be a lot of interesting to answer Mrs Halla-aho if I were to reply here only as chairman of my party, but I am taking the line of government and I say that there is one important difference between the opposition and the government: the opposition always has the right to describe the situation as if by keeping a small pakina in the world, and no one ever asks what your solution is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u63	Next question, Mr Kopra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u64	Mr President! I spoke to an entrepreneur in the trade sector in South-East Finland, where, of course, turnover has fallen fairly as a result of the interest rate. Taxes are on the line, but the company wants to hold on to skilled workers at all costs. This is the social responsibility that the government has also called for. Now the job of an entrepreneur and more than a hundred jobs are at risk because of tax arrears for a few months. During the interest period, almost all creditors have been flexible in payment schedules, but this is not done by the State, but the tax payer is often the strictest collector for companies. Extending the payment schedule for taxes and tax arrears would certainly save thousands of jobs in the coming months. In many companies tax flexibility could be even more effective than cost support. In order to save Finnish jobs, immediate action must be taken in this regard as early as the end of the year. I would like to ask the government: will tax flexibility in the summer be introduced immediately to help companies and save jobs?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u65	Mr President! These delays in payment schedules have taken place both on the part of the State tax authorities and the banks have given loan repayments free. In addition, the social partners were also able to make room for this simplification of the lay-off system, and of course all these issues are being examined at all times. However, the possibility for the State to postpone its claims all the time would also mean that the tax authority would weaken its own ability, especially in situations where the company is in the process of being in a situation where relief, extension, will no longer help the situation of the company. At the moment, we are not extending the extended payment delays.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u66	Now I ask those representatives who want to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u67	Mr President! Entrepreneurs need stability and hope for a better tomorrow. In order to generate private investment, there must be a view that taxation or unnecessary bureaucracy does not threaten to take away the fruits of work. Taxation is by no means light in Finland. On the contrary, according to several international competitiveness comparisons, Finland's one of the highest tax rates in the world is the biggest obstacle to our competitiveness. I've been worried about the government's tax policy. It seems that the government's aim is not to reduce the tax burden on businesses and people, but rather to reduce the tax burden on the contrary. A few days ago, Prime Minister Marin was asked at the party chairmanship whether he could promise that the taxation of a Finnish entrepreneur would not increase. No answer was received. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen: is the government committed not to increasing the tax burden on entrepreneurs? I think this was your party's threshold for going to the government. If you are committed to ensuring that the taxation of entrepreneurs is not increased,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u71	Mr President! I spoke to a neo-American entrepreneur and he told me that he is currently negotiating with 150 employees in his company. He said that everyone else has been flexible about payment arrangements, except that the tax authorities are no longer flexible. It is a matter of a few months in which this issue might be resolved. If we really get to a situation where the corona can be pressed down by vaccine and action, would it not really be worth considering this tax relief for the sake of healthy businesses? At least when you think of how much money the government is able to spend at the moment — the government has more money than any government has in the past, and, for example, municipalities have been given a billion more than the municipalities would need — would it not be worth handing out a helping hand to businesses?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u72	Mr President! As I said, this issue is being assessed all the time, including these late payment issues, but the State is primarily helping businesses with the very direct support that thousands and thousands of companies have been able to make use of, and it has been of great importance to the fact that many companies have survived this. That is the most important way. All of us, including companies, have costs and, as a natural cost, companies also have to calculate the obligations they have towards society in the tax field. Yes, the State is also a tax collector, and we always have to weigh these interests on the gold scale that we have.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u73	Mr President! I would like to continue to ask questions on the taxation of entrepreneurs. We currently have a practice that the losses the entrepreneur is making this year can be deducted from the profits of the coming years. In practice, it goes so that these losses can be reduced over a period of about ten years. However, it is now a practice in Norway, France and Germany, for example, that losses can also be deducted from the profits of the past years, and at the moment, when we are considering this plight of companies in the event of a corona pandemic, it is important for us to be able to maintain all jobs. Would it be possible, Minister of Finance, for an entrepreneur to deduct this year's losses from last year's taxation, in which case he would receive a tax refund from the taxes he has already paid and, in that way, money from the cashier so that he could pay the wages, rents and other bills that the entrepreneur receives?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u74	Mr President! This, of course, has also been theoretically considered. We do not currently have this legislation, and here, too, it is as if we were seeking that support from the income of the tax-payer, that is, the State. However, our main line has been that the state grants aid in euros and there are application procedures with similar criteria for companies, and that is the way in which companies are supported at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u75	Mr President! The epidemic has created an unprecedented need to support households, businesses and municipalities. Of course, aid has been necessary, but unfortunately there have been problems in targeting it in all sectors. As far as companies are concerned, the number of bankruptcies initiated has been significantly lower than the normal conditions, indicating that aid has been paid to companies that would have fallen without interest. However, there is a greater problem in the municipal sector. The government has supported municipalities that have not suffered from the corona with corona aid. Some municipalities have received up to 880,000 euros per infection. In other words, municipalities with chronic deficits have been artificially revived into surplus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u78	Mr President! It is very good for me that the Minister of Local Government should clarify this, but I am happy to reply. Firstly, it has now become clear in this debate that the opposition believes that Finnish municipalities are doing far too well,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u85	Mr President! Throughout the spring and summer, we have had discussions with municipalities to get a common picture of the situation, which is the situation in the municipalities. In addition, of course, an estimate has been made within the Ministry of Finance of how much tax revenue is falling and how much is the increase in what is needed to treat the actual disease in euros. But, as Mr Lindtman said, this loss of tax revenue is the greater sum. When corporation taxes fall and municipal taxes fall,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u88	Mr President! At the meeting, we know that the driving force behind the welfare society is business activity and hard work, and if incentives for business and hard work start to weaken, the whole welfare society will get hurt. In other words, welfare does not come from moving one section in one direction or another, or even from taking up debt on a temporary basis. Well, now, if we see what the incentive for an entrepreneur is to invest by the end of this decade, to work hard in this country, then this week, for example, the government published a social welfare reform that will not save the cost of the biggest cost of public finances, will not be able to bear the cost, on the contrary: the cost of change is over 700 million. And the cost of compulsory education is growing strongly. Does the government, Deputy Prime Minister, have any idea who's paying for this whole thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u89	Mr President! Mr Häkkänen is quite right that in this country, well-being is created by work and work is created by companies. No one disagrees with this picture of the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u92	Irade the Talman! This year, companies have been supported with a considerable amount of money, which in part has contributed to the very limited decline in the Finnish economy in international comparisons. Of course, companies can be supported financially or by allowing flexibility, and Mr Kauma asked a good question about the introduction of the carry back method, which would help those companies that are going badly this year. Well, we don't know what next year looks like. There may be a rapid recoil when the vaccine is in use, but there is reason to fear that the industry in particular may be in bad shape. Industrial order books today look rather gloomy, and for them the corresponding flexibility could be good. If we were to introduce an extended financial year, those companies that may be doing well today with old order books but which will be doing badly next year would be able to stabilise the situation by extending their accounting period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u93	Mr President! As I have already said on two questions, these are all being assessed at all times. We do not have this legislation either, but this is just as good an idea as this carry back system. There is currently no answer to the fact that this would be introduced. All I am saying is that it is constantly being assessed which are the most useful ways of supporting companies in this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u94	Mr. Speaker! A better employment situation is needed in Finland and, of course, a better employment situation can only be achieved if domestic companies are more successful. That is why Finns believe that efforts are needed to improve the competitiveness of Finnish industry and improve it. You, the government, have mostly shown your will for tax increases,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u97	Mr President! In fact, today the OECD published a country report in Finland, in which it estimated that Finland's economic growth in the next year would be only 1.5 per cent and in 221.8 per cent, which is far too low. The reason for this was that we are in too cautious a climate of investment or that we are not making enough investment. For the government and for the success of the Finnish economy, it is absolutely crucial that our most important market, the European Union, should recover rapidly. With clean domestic measures, we will only grow by 1.5 per cent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u101	Mr President! Companies must therefore be supported and supported by billions, and this line must continue, because jobs are created in companies. We will certainly share this view with the whole of Parliament. At the same time, we need to think fairly about who is now supporting these who are in the front line at the moment — medical staff, teachers, all the others who now need and are at the limit of their efforts. Since I started talking about fairness, I also want to talk about taxation. In November, the NGO Finnwatch published a report on tax avoidance by electricity transmission companies. It is noted that these companies are sending money and avoiding taxes of tens of millions of euros. The Government Programme has agreed that this gap should be resolved and addressed. Minister Vanhanen, how do we get these tax evaders under control?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u102	Mr President! Just as the questioner said, this has been addressed in the Government Programme and the work will be done in what way this tax avoidance can be reduced and eliminated. In the case of international activities, there are still opportunities, particularly within corporate group structures, to transfer revenue in the form of internal borrowing instruments and other interest payments elsewhere, to countries with a lower corporate tax rate or other such arrangements, and these opportunities must be able to be drastically reduced both by international cooperation and by our own tax legislation, and this work is part of the government's programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u103	Mr Kopra, the original questioner.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u104	Mr President! The major sufferers of the Koronapandemic have been micro- and sole entrepreneurs, from whom the epidemic has taken away opportunities for work and employment. Interest is certainly not part of the usual entrepreneurial risk — that is why it has been good for the state to support the survival of businesses and jobs during this crisis. In the early part of the year, facilitated payment arrangements for rents, loans and taxes have been agreed and are now coming to an end, even though the activities of several companies are still paralysed by the pandemic. The lives of thousands of entrepreneurs are threatening to be wasted and tens of thousands of jobs are threatened. Mr President! I would like to ask the government: has this need for sole entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs come to the attention of the government? You won't leave them to their own devices, will you? Will you continue the right of entrepreneurs to receive labour market support at least until the summer?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u105	Mr President! Yes, representative, this message has come to our ears, and we are currently in the process of preparing the support of the self-employed in the Ministry, the second round of which is currently being prepared. Let us take into account the experiences of the first one, which was relatively good, but let us say that some municipalities, for example, do not want to go there anymore, and we are now looking for alternative ways of doing so in these municipalities. We have a three in preparation, that is to say, we have a two in preparation before Christmas, and we have a three in preparation after that. Of course, the big role has been played by late payments, which have come from all over the world, and they are, of course, agreements between the two sides. The government itself has no chance of interfering with it. For all of these, we have - cost support for three, for companies to come - 500 million, I think, and we still have one, support for sole proprietorships.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u106	Next question, Congressman Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u107	Mr President! The interest-rate crisis has accelerated the product development of many companies and has also raised new companies both in the world and here in Finland. For example, several Finnish diagnostic companies have developed new testing expertise. One significant product development result has been the inhalation test of corona infection: very sensitive test, breath, response to corona infection in two minutes, and the price is only a fraction of current prices. The company that developed the product already received orders in the autumn, but the problem is the CE marking, which we have been waiting for for months. The agencies dealing with the CE marking are severely congested, citizens are forced to wait, and domestic companies may find themselves in a less competitive position than foreign companies. I would like to ask the ministers concerned: how can we remedy the situation, how can we speed up the handling of CE marking matters, and is the government targeting the additional resources that are very much needed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u108	Mr President! I would like to say to the questioner that I do not know — that much specific, and it is less common to meet purely CE marking. In the past, there have been messages that some agencies/byrocrats haveconcerned,but that this is as bad as news for me,and I promise that I will be able to deal with this without delay.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u109	Is Secretary Kiuru here?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u110	Mr President! The question is quite legitimate because, not only in the case of testing, but also in the case of many other technological solutions that have been made possible by the corona crisis, the same problem is at hand. The CE marking has been made to ensure, for example, that health care equipment and equipment are safe for the patient and the customer, and therefore, of course, there are no shortcuts in these matters. At the same time, as Mr Lintilä has already said, rapid decisions are needed in these processes, because they also provide us with efficiency in dealing with this corona crisis. In that regard, at least on our side, we have tried very hard to speed up the process of obtaining CE marking as quickly as possible. That is where the problem is known, but it is also a very big job for professionals, that is, not everyone can go and make these entries. So in that respect, the starting point is that, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u111	I will give Mr Tanus a second question on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u112	Mr President! Thank you for this. — We need efficiency, and we really hope that we will be able to get these rapid tests, which will give us answers in two minutes, to be used quickly in Finland as well. And we hope that you will also see to it that Finns can take advantage of these in the future so that they do not escape abroad. But then I'd also like to ask you about the vaccines. There has been a lot of talk of corona vaccine and its introduction in recent weeks, and there has also been a lot of news from the world about the effectiveness of vaccinations and the results of testing. But there are also at least two projects in Finland to develop corona vaccine, and in order for small operators in Finland to compete with international development work, funding should be invested and funding should be in order. I would like to ask the ministers concerned: what is the situation, is funding also being directed towards domestic vaccine research and vaccine development? Now that a lot of money is being directed elsewhere, isn't it also to this domestic expertise?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u113	Mr President! Yes, this question was an important one for Finnish science and research, Finnish inventions and knowledge — and this is what the government wants to work for. We have broadly wanted to invest in research and development, not only in this current pandemic situation, but also in the post-corona period of what is known and what is invented in Finland, this country will rise again. With regard to this specific and important vaccine research that you have raised, my impression is that we have responsible ministers in the government who are familiar with this matter and who are involved in it, and this project has been shown interest and support in the way you have presented it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u114	Now, let's change the subject to the next question. — Mr Harkimo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u115	Mr President! Let's not change the subject. - I intend to take the vaccine as soon as my turn comes. I would now like to ask the Minister: When is it estimated that the first batch of vaccination will arrive in Finland? How many vaccines are coming to Finland then, and when will the next ones come? How many manufacturers does the EU and Finland have an agreement with? What is the total amount estimated to come to Finland? Sweden has said that the vaccine will come after the turn of the year and that it has already reported to the regions how high the vaccination rates are. Is the staff trained, and is the logistics, or cold storage, and all of these are in order?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u118	Mr President! We have prepared a vaccination strategy for these issues within the government, starting with Finland preparing for us to be ready when the first round comes. What are we waiting for? We are currently waiting for the whole of the EU, the EU countries are waiting for the EU's pharmaceutical authorities to decide which of these developed vaccines to enter the market rather than the national authorities. And the EU has announced that, when this decision comes, we will have the first round very quickly. We told the public earlier that we are waiting for this first batch to come as soon as the moon rises, and when it happens in the next few weeks, we have also been preparing to get started immediately on the ground. This medicinal product, which we are likely to have available, is a batch that requires this huge cold chain,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u119	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 14/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Remember your safety distances and move outside the hall to talk if you don't stay here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u120	Mr President! I present the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs on a proposal from the Government to Parliament for a law on the temporary amendment of Chapter 2 of the Bankruptcy Act, Section 3. The government proposal proposes a temporary amendment to the bankruptcy law. The purpose of the proposal is to help companies cope with the crisis caused by the corona virus. According to the proposal, failure to comply with a default-threatening call for payment would only constitute default if the debtor did not pay the creditor’s clear and due claim within 30 days of the creditor’s call for payment when the normal period is one week. The possibility for the creditor to file for bankruptcy on the basis of non-compliance with a payment order threatened with bankruptcy was limited from May to October of this year by a temporary amendment to the bankruptcy law. Due to the continuation of the virus situation, the provisional law was extended for three months, with the current law in force until the end of January next year. In dealing with this government proposal, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights supported the extension of the provisional law at the time, but, on the basis of the report it had received, it considered that there was no longer any justification for a further extension of the regulation by a similar temporary law after January 21. The Committee on Legal Affairs also stressed that if possible new means require legislative changes, the relevant legislative proposals should be submitted to Parliament in good time during the current autumn session, leaving Parliament sufficient time to deal with them. Parliament adopted the opinion proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs in its report this autumn. This proposal is therefore a third temporary amendment to the bankruptcy law, which is due to enter into force from the beginning of February 21, i.e. at the end of the current interim law, and would be in force until the end of September next year. The committee consulted a great deal of experts and the views of the experts consulted by the committee on the proposed amendment were divided. The majority have supported the proposed amendment, but it has also been considered unnecessary and considered that the objectives of the proposal can already be achieved through the application of the normal provisions of the bankruptcy law. On the other hand, the proposal has also been considered totally inadequate in relation to the situation. By January of next year, when the presumption of default based on a threat of default has long been out of use, it is possible that there are situations in which an application for bankruptcy should be made fairly quickly. In the light of the report it has received, the Legal Committee therefore considers the proposed 30-day payment period to be balanced for both the debtor and the creditor. Other options have also been considered in the preparation of the Government’s proposal, but they have been considered problematic for reasons such as evidence problems and the complexity and lengthening of court proceedings. On the basis of the consultation of the committee's experts, the committee has no comments on the final conclusions of the proposal. The committee stresses that the bankruptcy law in force requires that the debtor is not temporarily insolvent. Thus, when the default on the basis of a default call for payment is reinstated at the beginning of February 21, it is only a presumption that the debtor still has the opportunity to prove that the default is temporary. At that time, the court will consider whether the condition that the debtor is not temporarily insolvent is met. The Committee stresses the importance of interpreting and applying this condition in time, i.e. given that the situation of companies is not normal due to the presence of coronavirus and the effects of the resulting restrictions. The assessment criteria are therefore different from those under normal circumstances. For the sake of clarity, the Legal Affairs Committee also notes that the government's proposal represents a temporary change only in the payment period of the bankruptcy law, which extends from the normally applicable week to 30 days. The proposed amendment thus means that the creditor can file for bankruptcy on the grounds of non-compliance with a default-threatening call for payment if the debtor has not paid the debt within 30 days of receiving the call for payment. However, according to the bankruptcy law, an application for bankruptcy must be made no later than three months after the expiry of that period if the debt is still outstanding. The Court of Justice shall examine ex officio whether the conditions for bankruptcy exist. As far as the validity is concerned, the committee is saying that there is a second wave of epidemics which have led to further restrictive measures being taken. At present, it is difficult to predict how long the epidemic will last and thus affect businesses and their activities. The change now proposed will be of greatest importance immediately after its entry into force in February 21, when the default assumption of default based on a default call for bankruptcy becomes available after a long break. However, in order to achieve the objectives of the law, it is important that the amendment of the law is in force for a sufficient period of time. On the basis of the above and the report received, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights considers this proposal appropriate in this regard. The committee also raised the issue of corporate restructuring. A bankruptcy application and a business restructuring application may be pending at the same time, but a bankruptcy application can only be settled if the company restructuring application fails. In the case of a viable undertaking that can be recovered, the restructuring will protect against bankruptcy. The process of restructuring is heavy, slow and costly and is therefore useful mainly for the recovery of large companies. Given that a large number of companies are small businesses, it is important that they also have a useful and sufficiently simple, prompt and cost-effective reorganisation procedure. The committee considers it important that the reform of the law on restructuring currently under way in the Ministry of Justice should also assess the need for changes in the procedure in the light of the needs of small businesses. The Committee on Legal Affairs again calls in its report for adequate resources to be provided for by the courts and the bankruptcy attorney. Several different laws have been temporarily amended this year due to the corona virus situation. For example, the government proposal before us is already the third temporary amendment to the bankruptcy law. The effects of this amendment have typically been assessed in individual government proposals, although the change is often part of a larger entity aimed at facilitating the virus situation and its effects. For example, the status of the creditor and debtor has been affected not only by temporary amendments to the bankruptcy law, but also by temporary changes to the law on enforcement, the law on the recovery of claims and the consumer protection law. The Committee considers it important that in future the government's proposals relating to the corona virus situation also assess the combined effects of the various changes. In its report, the committee has drawn particular attention to the entry into force of the law and transitional provisions and consulted experts on them. In the proposed transitional regulation, the timing of filing for bankruptcy is crucial. It is not relevant when an application for bankruptcy is settled or when a call for payment threatened by bankruptcy has been served on the debtor. Since the proposed regulation is intended to ensure that the proposed transitional provisions are compatible with the transitional provisions of the current interim law and that the provisions are clearly readable, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has opened the matter in more detail in the detailed explanatory memorandum. The committee therefore considers it important that debtors and creditors are aware of the temporary law and its effects, so that they do not come as a surprise to them. It is therefore appropriate to provide sufficient information on the amendment of the law and its effects. The draft decision of the Legal Committee is that Parliament accept the bill contained in the Government proposal 233/2020 without amendment. The report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u121	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mere, for her comprehensive presentation. I have a little concern as to whether this is a way of analysing whether the difficulties in payment originate from a corona pandemic or from something else. In the present situation, however, a means of reducing the excessive occurrences of the interest rate in which viable companies would go bankrupt. We must do everything we can to ensure that healthy businesses are able to survive the worst of this pandemic. The objectives underlying the proposal are very important, but we must also ensure that the implementation of the objectives is not left to the interpretation and application of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u122	Mr President! The chairman of the committee, Leena Meri, just now gave a very good speech on this temporary amendment to the bankruptcy law. After all, this change will begin in February next year and it will be in effect until the end of September, and, in fact, when you think about this wave of bankruptcy, which may still be testing Finland, it will be a huge rush. You have to take into account that huge craziness in everything. The Government and Parliament as a whole must also pay attention to this. Not only financially, but it will also have a variety of psychological factors that will have an effect. In other words, I hope that attention will be paid to this. I hope there will not be many bankruptcies, but it is certain that this epidemic will not pass right away.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u123	Mr President! This is one of the government's proposals which I warmly support. This is necessary in this situation and indeed necessary to prevent a wave of bankruptcies affecting companies with temporary difficulties in paying — and I thank the chairman of the committee for his good presentation. In addition to this, it would also be important to amend the law on conditions of payment. After all, it was changed from 60 days to 30 in 2015, but in practice this means that companies can still agree on other time between themselves, and this means, in particular for larger companies, that they will not subcontract unless their terms of payment are accepted, and this means payment terms of up to 120 or 90 days, and this is a very big difficulty for smaller entrepreneurs who do not have the same buffers as these larger companies. This would be very important and directly linked to this proposed law. Another very important issue in this situation for companies that are threatening to end up in a similar procedure, which is also mentioned in this bill, would be to moderate recovery costs. After all, the law states that only reasonable recovery costs should then be charged to companies, but in practice this reasonableness has not been identified in any way, and the different regional government agencies have then taken a slightly different view, i.e. for others a reasonable amount of EUR 25 and for others EUR 100 and so on. The EUR 100 bill can therefore also lead to recovery costs of more than EUR 100, and this is one of the key problems that there is no euro-denominated ceiling. Perhaps instead of such an absolute ceiling it would be justifiable that the ceiling should be relative. Even then, the larger bills, such as EUR 15000, would not be haunted, because it may even make sense for the company not to pay them, if these costs amount to just EUR 100. But then there are many of these smaller bills, where collection costs may be much higher than the bill itself. These are issues in which I hope the government will intervene and bring a bill here. Just as this proposal here is all right and well-founded. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u124	I thank the members of the committee. We have dealt with more of these, the law of enforcement and bankruptcy, at a very quick pace, and experts have been familiar with the very short timescale. The committee considered, and in consultation with experts, precisely that, when this is the third temporary amendment to the bankruptcy law, this has meant — these earlier and current laws — that the possibility for creditors to file for bankruptcy has been limited to a large and planned total of nine months, since in practice it is difficult for creditors to show the insolvency of the debtor without this defaulting assumption of a threat of bankruptcy, and therefore there has been a significant reduction in their claims for bankruptcy. The committee's consultation also showed that this temporary law, which is currently in force, should be continued in such a way that this presumption of insolvency would not be in force at all, but the committee considers that the full exemption from bankruptcy proceedings of the undertakings subject to restrictive measures would also mean an extensive and formal impediment to bankruptcy and a transfer to the future. There is a constant need to strike a balance between creditors and debtors and, of course, the small business itself will be in a difficult situation if there are not enough means available. As I said in that presentation, the committee particularly hopes in the future that there will be more consideration and evaluation of these synergies, because it is very difficult to make a point of assessing what the impact is and now that we are beginning to have experience of how these laws have helped and how to live with them, if there are any more, then there would be a more comprehensive assessment of the whole. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u125	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 15/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u126	Mr President! The draft law under consideration is to amend the Housing Information and Housing Company Act. It seems to be a rather technical time-out change, but it is important. This whole law is about the fact that housing companies have initially had to transfer their stock lists to the Land Survey. This change was originally due to be made by the end of 2022, and this is an extension of the year. We are talking about almost 90,000 housing companies, of which only about 1,100 have done this job. So the remaining crowd is huge and will need more guidance and guidance than originally thought. If there were no one-year extension, it could lead to an undesirable and very congested situation. The electronic owner-marking of housing companies is a fine and good innovation. It replaces the old paper model. I hope, however, that all information security issues have also been taken into account here as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u127	Mr President! The changes proposed in the proposal do not have an additional cost impact on the state budget or on housing companies or on companies operating in the real estate sector. However, the extension of the transitional period would slow down some of the benefits that could arise from the transfer of ownership and pledge data to the register, but since the proposal is expected to contribute to the transfer of ownership data to the housing register, I feel that, as a whole, the proposal is necessary and appropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u128	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 19/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-10-ps-162.u129	Mr President! It is stated here that this would strengthen a vibrant Finland and reform the vehicle law in line with the EU framework regulation for cars and their trailers, and quite a few other technical reforms are being carried out. On the other hand, it is good that the law becomes clearer and less overlap. I would have asked the representatives of the government parties: Now that this is being done, is there any intention of moving to where the other 12 Member States have already moved, i.e. to heavy-duty transport charges, i.e. vignettes? I believe that it would perhaps be easier to implement it after this legislative reform and I hope that this will be done.
