ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u1	The second issue in the order of business is the question of the tiedness statement of the deputy Ombudsman, Mikko Series. According to the Rules of Procedure, Parliament does not take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. It is now decided, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the UaVM 2/2020 vp report, on the report. The debate starts with a presentation by Mr Niiko, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There is no round of group talks. The speeches made in advance or during the plenary session will be of normal duration, i.e. no more than 3 minutes. The Foreign Minister has asked for a five-minute speech and you will receive it after the presentation by the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u3	Mr President! The EU Battlegroup concept was adopted in 2004. This is a stand-by team with six-monthly shifts in watchkeeping in the participating countries. The preparation period shall be preceded by the training period. The purpose of this title is to strengthen the EU's common security and defence policy and to create additional means for global crisis management. The department can be used for short-term purposes, e.g. to secure, seize or stabilise a restricted area, either independently or in support of the UN. The Battlegroup could also be used for humanitarian tasks. On 1 July, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of The number of participating Finns is about 80. As the report shows, the battle groups have never been used in crisis management operations in the past 16 years. Involvement in combat teams is voluntary. However, the countries participating in the permanent structural cooperation of the European Union, to which Finland belongs, are expected to make a significant contribution to the preparedness of the combat teams. So far, Finland has participated six times in the EU's battle groups. The Committee on Foreign Affairs agrees with the opinion of the Committee on Defence that the current streamlined approach is a cost-effective way of creating sufficient readiness for troops. The Covid-19 pandemic has also contributed to the preparation of this combat unit. However, Finland has been able to meet its training needs nationally, and the pandemic will not affect the deployment of troops as of 1 July 1920. The fact is, however, that a pandemic can also contribute to the likelihood of using a combat unit. In general, the pandemic has made it difficult for international crisis management to operate. Mr President! In its expert consultations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs focused extensively on obstacles to the use of combat teams. The main obstacle to the availability of combat teams remains the cost of operations and the distribution of financial burdens. The committee noted that the European Council already stated in 2017 that the use of combat teams should be permanently financed from the so-called Athena mechanism as a common cost. Several EU Member States are opposed to extending the common costs. For example, there is opposition to an increase in costs because these costs would be allocated in accordance with the European Union's budgetary key and, according to some Member States, this would impose an unreasonable burden on them. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it natural that Finland will continue to push for a financing solution that is in line with the conclusions of the European Council 2017. The committee points out that the ongoing negotiations on the financial framework and the issue of the establishment of a so-called peace fund provide an opportunity for active efforts to resolve this issue. It is important to resolve the issues that stand in the way of the use of EU combat teams, as there is a great need for rapid response in international military crisis management. Mr President! The main benefit for Finland has been the development of military cooperation with both established partners and new partners. The expansion of the international defence cooperation network will also strengthen national defence cooperation and defence capabilities. However, with regard to the development of national defence capabilities, the Committee on Foreign Affairs refers to the opinion of the Committee on Defence that the benefits for the development of national defence can be considered to be rather limited in relation to costs. This is due to the small number of trained soldiers. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs attaches great importance to keeping Parliament informed of any development costs that might lead to the use of a combat unit before and during the start of the stand-by shift. The committee also draws attention to the fact that the plans for Finland's participation in the EU's battle groups after this time's stand-by shift are still open. Mr President! With these comments, the Committee on Foreign Affairs proposes that Parliament should have no objections to the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u4	Mr President! The Parliament has examined in depth the report on the deployment of the military unit in high readiness as part of the EU Battle Group's readiness shift under German leadership from July to December. I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence for a very good report and opinion. I would also like to thank all the representatives on 6.5. a good and wide-ranging referral debate at the plenary session. For the seventh time, Finland will take part in this Battlegroup stand-by. Finland’s participation in combat teams has been estimated to be beneficial both from a foreign and security policy perspective and from the perspective of Finland’s national defence capability. Parliament has supported this line. This is also evident from the opinions of the committees this time, as well as from the debate in the plenary. President! The referral debate expressed strong support for Finland's participation in the stand-by shift and for the deployment of a military unit in high readiness. At the same time, there was a great deal of realistic discussion about the fact that fighting groups have never been used. The reasons for this lack of use are known: lack of a coherent political will, issues of financial burden sharing and the question of the suitability of a stand-by combat unit to conduct a current crisis management operation. President! In its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs supports the establishment of a military department with a high level of preparedness. It weighs the benefits and costs of participation. In the report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs is going through the obstacles to the use of combat groups and considers it important to resolve the obstacles to use. The Committee on Defence also attaches great importance to this. This is very easy to agree with, because Finland has supported reforms in the usability of combat teams and it is natural to continue to work towards them. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is not easy to go through reforms because of the unanimity requirement for EU countries to make decisions. The Committee on Foreign Affairs examines the benefits of Finland's participation both from the point of view of foreign and security policy and from the point of view of national defence. This is essential. The report mentions Finland's previous positive experiences of participation. With regard to the development of national defence, the relatively limited benefits in relation to costs are highlighted due to the small number of trained soldiers, referring in this respect to the opinion of the Committee on Defence. However, it is added that the extension of the international defence cooperation network will also strengthen the national defence capability, which I believe is a very important addition. The Committee on Foreign Affairs draws attention to the fact that plans for Finland’s participation in the EU’s battle groups after this time’s stand-by shift are open and notes that any new involvement should be prepared to take a position. We need to figure this out. As Minister of Defence Kaikkonen said in the referral debate, the Defence Forces have been given the task of investigating in a preliminary manner the capability of the Defence Forces to participate in the preparedness during 24 or 25 C.E. We will return to this in the crisis management review once this study has been completed. With regard to the issue considered by the committees, the Government will certainly keep Parliament informed of any development costs that might lead to the use of a combat unit. Finland's position on the use of combat units is properly formed in cooperation with Parliament. Mr President! A few words on the financial implications. With regard to these, the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs refers to the Committee's earlier view that the approval of operational costs only in the context of the amending budget procedure is not fully in line with the principle of rapid national decision-making on the EU Battlegroups. The costs have not been included in the budget, as it is not possible to make a precise estimate of the cost of participation in advance. The costs of a military crisis management operation will only be revised according to mission planning, mission, geographical location and overall planned duration. Finally, Mr President, in addition to fighting groups, crisis management was raised in the debate. Battlegroups are part of the EU's extensive toolbox to contribute to conflict and crisis resolution. This is where the elements of military and civilian crisis management complement each other. Finland is also active in developing civilian crisis management. It is good to return to crisis management in the wider context of the parliamentary crisis management committee, whose work is now in the start-up phase. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u5	Mr President! I thank the committees for their good work on this. In its expert consultations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs focused extensively on the obstacles that still exist to the use of combat teams. This was also mentioned in the referral debate. According to the study, one further obstacle to use is the cost of operations and the issue of financial burden sharing. And even in that committee’s expert consultation it became clear that the negotiations on the costs of the Athena mechanism are continuing, and that is what is necessary. In its opinion, the Committee on Defence wanted to pay broad attention to the whole concept and to the need to change it in a way that would enable the departments to be available. The Committee on Defence considers it important that an agreement be reached through the Athena mechanism which allows the joint payment of the costs associated with the use of combat teams by the Union. Furthermore, the committee attaches great importance to the fact that Parliament is informed of all developments which might lead to the use of the Battle Department. UaV also paid due attention to this. These are in a few withdrawals. Mr President! Recent crises have shown that the Defence Forces’ ability and readiness to respond to rapidly evolving and difficult security threats is central. This objective is also supported by participation in combat teams. Although no combat teams have been deployed, trained personnel on standby have been deployed in crisis management operations after standby. Finland is among the Member States that have supported reforms aimed at increasing the availability of combat teams. We have to keep doing this job. We have also been active, particularly in these financial negotiations and discussions. An attempt has been made to promote consensus so that a solution can be found which also responds to these comments by the committees. Finally, as Mr Haavisto has just said, it is fundamental that Parliament should be informed of any development costs that might lead to the use of a combat unit and that Finland's position on the use of combat units is properly formed in cooperation with Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u6	Mr President! Even in that referral debate, the Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament stated that we support Finland's participation in the stand-by of the German-led combat unit. At the same time, we encouraged the government to consider how the availability of the EU Battlegroup system in crisis management tasks could be improved in the future and also to consider how to respond to the growing need for civilian crisis management at European level. Mr President! I hope you will allow me to ask the following question: The Christian Democrats are neither represented in the Committee on Foreign Affairs nor in the Committee on Defence, and we have read that the Finnish peacekeepers have been At the moment, the cause of the incident is unknown. Would it be possible for the Minister, in his reply, to open this subject up a little? And another such topical issue related to the corona epidemic and also to the situation of these Finnish peacekeepers in Iraq: were they all released from it, or did some of them remain, for example, in advisory duties and similar matters? I hope that this is what you are saying about this, because it could now be said that this crisis management, as a whole, is, however, the subject area. And it must also be pointed out that security threats are definitely multifaceted and wide-ranging. The Corona virus epidemic has put the world in a difficult challenge, and since it has been overcome — hopefully we will back it off — societies will hopefully also be better prepared for the threats to health safety and the various threats that result from them, such as hybrid effects and the like. In the coming years, attention will also have to be paid to the interface between the common security and defence policy and development cooperation, and then to better link them. The root causes of conflicts need to be tackled more effectively and conflict prevention is certainly more effective than intervention in crisis situations when they break out. The EU should step up its efforts in the area of prevention and the underlying causes of conflicts and crises. Mr President! In this reply, the chairman of the committee also pointed out that the battle groups have so far not been used in these crisis management operations and, in this respect, there is certainly still a reflection on how to ensure that there is a different field of work and political consensus among the EU Member States as well. And it could be said that, even in this sector, EU decision-making has certainly proved more difficult than might have been thought in advance. But, Mr President, I really hope that in this context it will be possible to hear the answers of the ministers on these matters as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u7	Mr President! It is good that Finland is involved in the preparedness of the EU Battlegroups. This is the seventh time that we are preparing for this European Battlegroup activity, which is based on the European Battlegroup concept. As has already been pointed out in that presentation, we in the Committee on Defence looked into whether this concept could be developed in such a way that these forces could also be used to make some sense. The recruitment of these troops took place in the autumn of last year. These are mainly reservists, and then, of course, a very important question, which was also raised by Mrs Essayah, that, if these troops were to be deployed, then, of course, the protection of the troops would be in order, but also insurance cover, insurance for the families and families. He referred to this Monday shooting of peacekeepers in Lebanon, but it is extremely important that we always ensure that this insurance cover is in order. The performance requirements set for the troops include international requirements, but mainly all these requirements also serve Finland's national defence directly. A credible defence of the country is a cornerstone for an independent state, and when the President allowed a representative With what Mr Essayah has said a little to expand this debate, and here is a strong link with this national defence, and I have been somewhat concerned to follow the debate of this current government around the HX project. We must ensure that we also have the material in order, and we have now received messages stating, for example, from the left-wing coalition that the acquisition of fighters can be postponed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u16	This speech went beyond the heading clearly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u17	Mr President! As indicated at the beginning of Mr Heinonen's speech, [Laughter] Already in the planning phase of the Battlegroup in the early 2000s, the Coalition Party has strongly supported the extension of the EU mandate in crisis management matters and, as has already been demonstrated in this debate, the most fundamental role of the EU Battle Forces has not yet been achieved, i.e. they have not yet been used in crisis management operations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u18	Mr President! Three weeks ago, in a referral debate, I gave a group speech on the setting up of an EU combat unit, which was constructively critical. At the heart of the criticism was the fact that the Battlegroup has never been used since the concept was adopted in 2004 — not even when there were serious terrorist attacks on Europe. Criticism is not caught up in the wind, and the problems of the combat department have been raised both in the opinion of the Committee on Defence and in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The main problem is that a very high threshold for the use of the combat unit has been created politically and economically. The decision-making process is too dependent on the interests of the countries participating in the battle group. The smallest of these is not an economic interest, since the cost of using the Battlegroup is largely borne by the participating countries. Finland should not participate in the EU Battle Division just for the joy of participating. The department pays taxpayers money, and since it is clearly not wanted to be used, the sense and benefit of participation can be called into question. Even the experience of international training is now missing, as the corona crisis has forced the joint exercises to be abandoned so far. Finland has actively and successfully participated in the EU’s Battlegroup activities. It is high time that we used that accumulated trust capital and put the problems of the combat unit at the heart of international scrutiny, not because of stuttering but because of solving the problems, so that the combat department would become a truly functional and useful organisation. Mr President! I strongly agree with the opinion of the Committee on Defence that Finland should now open a debate on the concept of the Battlegroup at EU level and bring to the table the concrete actions and development proposals that we have collected during our participation in the Battlegroup. The main objective should be to improve the political capacity to use the troops. The Battle Department is still looking for a role, because there is no use for it at the moment. The main focus should be on crisis management and peacekeeping. The combat unit must be available both inside and outside the EU in a flexible manner for both military peacekeeping and crisis management, for example in the event of natural disasters. In addition, the allocation of costs within the EU must be resolved in such a way that it treats the countries participating in the Battlegroup fairly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u19	Mr President! I have long considered in committee whether I should leave this matter in a different position, and it could have been left as a representative of the government party without it being contrary to the government programme. After all, these battle groups were once set up as an EU force, but there has been little power in them, and one cannot talk about fists either. There's been no mission, and I don't know if there's an end-use. In the future, I do not see the prospect of this being the top priority in the European Union. I think there are so many other topical and bigger issues within the EU to think about. If it is thought that the Committee on Defence also points out that the need for crisis management forces, which are able to react quickly, has only increased in military crisis management, then I would have expected more thought in both the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the type of situations in which this medicine could be used. Economic issues, the distribution of the financial burden, the need for unanimity in decision-making, which is, of course, correct, and then operational capabilities and capabilities, but the situations in which fighting groups are really needed have not been very much opened up. In its own opinion, the Committee on Defence draws attention to quite the right issues, for example, that Finland should not try to play a leading role just because it would take up most of the resources, but it is also stated — and it is worth listening there on the right — that instead the benefits of participating in the development of national defence can be considered to be very limited in relation to costs, and that is quite true. The same objectives could be achieved much better with less effort. If there is no realistic view of the usability of the departments, it can actually eat up the national resources of Finland in the future, and then the willingness and motivation of potential individuals who are considering going along may suffer when there is no such core task to be seen. It is then pointed out that combat teams should not be applied for tasks that are not suitable for them, just so that the concept can be tested in practice. That is quite the point, but then, if you say that you need to develop political capacity for decision-making, and at the same time the need for unanimity is emphasised, then this phrase in the committee's opinion will remain open.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u20	Mr President! Both committees are sympathetic to participation, as I am: there is a need to be involved in the cooperation of the EU's security and defence policy. We have talked about the cost, we have talked about the lack of use of troops. The Committee on Foreign Affairs draws attention to the fact that troops can also be used for humanitarian tasks, such as the delivery of aid transport. Attention must be paid to the fact that, as the Committee on Defence states, there are grounds for the Union countries to put forward concrete measures to increase the availability of combat teams. As Mr Mustajärvi said, training and caution are not in themselves motivating if it is known that there is a high probability that there will be no concrete way of providing assistance. Of course, it is good if there are no situations, but as we all know, there are such tasks in the world. The representative, Essayah, intervened in the fact that the Finnish peacekeepers had been shot at on Monday, drew attention to it. At the same time, I myself draw attention to this, and the Committee on Defence has also drawn attention to it in its opinion. It should be stressed that the equipment must be up-to-date and ensure the highest possible level of self-protection in all circumstances. In this regard, I am happy to hear Mr Kaikkonen's view as to whether things are in order in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u21	. Mr President! The need for civilian crisis management in the Union is growing and therefore the Christian Democratic Parliament welcomes the cooperation in crisis management within the framework of the European Union. Finland has participated in battle groups before, six times. While forces are primarily trained for a possible crisis management operation, participation will improve the performance, interoperability and international accountability of national defence. In other words, as Mr Heinonen mentioned here, I understand that the performance requirements set for the group serve mainly directly our national defence. Until now, the EU Battlegroups have not been used in a crisis management operation. However, with the Battle Divisions, the EU will have the opportunity to react rapidly to the worsening crises and disasters that have erupted. This requires appropriate responsibilities and political consensus among EU Member States. I pointed out in the previous debate that, in this sector too, EU decision-making has proved to be rigid. Mr President! Financial burden sharing issues also complicate decision-making. The cost of the operation is now largely borne by the countries participating in the Battlegroup. As the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niikko, said, would it be appropriate to find out whether the use of combat teams would be appropriate to finance the Athena system managed by the EU? The Defence Forces Institute’s publication notes that despite the EU’s active civilian engagement, civilian crisis management is carried out with limited resources and that, in order to improve the overall picture of crisis management, capabilities should be balanced between the military and civilian sides of the EEAS. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask the ministers: would a longer period of time be appropriate to consider shifting the focus of EU crisis management operations to civilian crisis management and education?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u22	Mr President! As has been said many times here, the departments have not been used, but the need has been seen and is still being felt. Perhaps the most important thing for Finland is what this report also states, that military cooperation will be developed, and then joint exercises will be organised. From an international point of view, however, we have a need for such extensive military crisis management and, above all, we need the rapid response that has been demonstrated, for example, within the framework of the UN. This cost dispute has, as it were, already been resolved in 2017, but, in the end, it has not been possible to achieve the practical work to do so and to mobilise these forces. All in all, however, this has a broader foreign and security policy nuance, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has already said. For example, we have been told in the Marin Government Programme that EU defence cooperation will be developed, that we will have permanent structured cooperation and, accordingly, that we will continue to develop the capacity to participate in international civilian and military crisis management tasks, together with other international actors. In other words, this proposal, which is also here, supports this whole chain, which is widely discussed here, and it is very good that we are now able to work on the over-election objectives of crisis management. In conclusion, perhaps I should also like to thank the people of Peru that I do not remember the proposal for which they have been giving such support for a long time in order to strengthen EU cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u23	Mr President! I believe that the focus of EU crisis management operations should be shifted more to crisis management and education. I think that the need is clearly growing not only for civilian crisis management but also for education, so that the effectiveness and ability of these combat forces to act in a coherent way can be further improved by training. It would also be useful to increase training in order to address the root causes of conflicts more effectively than at present, because if root causes are widely managed, this will lead to conflict prevention. The EU should therefore step up its efforts specifically in the area of prevention and the more effective resolution of the causes of conflicts and crises. This corona pandemic has clearly brought these health threats to the public and to the general public’s awareness. I think that it has been clear to us health care staff throughout the decades that such pandemic-type threats and potential crises are at hand at any time, and now we have a reality in Finland too, but it seems that in terms of crisis management and the Defence Forces, perhaps this kind of perspective may have fallen short. International cooperation, research into vaccines and medicines, but also more effective action in this sector must be invested. Our EU Commissioner for International Partnerships, Jutta Urpilainen, has also warned that if the spread of the corona virus is not handled better in Africa, the next wave will come to us from that very place in Africa. The capacity of developing countries to deal with the crisis and also to fight this virus is significantly lower than in Western countries. This report shows that the Battle Department can also support the delivery of humanitarian aid, and the EU tables should closely monitor this situation. I was pleased when the Minister raised this issue of the work of the parliamentary crisis management committee. I myself am involved and I am looking forward to this action. I would like to ask the Minister: could these threats to health be better taken into account in the future also in the activities of this crisis management committee? No matter how well anticipated and how well-functioning the troops and crisis management are, if this health threat side has not been adequately taken into account, it may not necessarily be a pandemic but, for example, a highly contagious eye infection,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u24	Mr President! This European Union Battlegroup project or component is part of this wider European Union’s security and defence cooperation, which Finland has supported in many ways and which Finland sees as an important part of the development of the Union’s system. This Battlegroup title is perhaps misleading to some extent, since it is a crisis management instrument and instrument which, as has been said here and in some cases also mentioned in the committee, makes it possible to use it for such evacuation operations and for humanitarian aid, which means that it has a wide range of possibilities. However, the situation is, as has been said here, that this combat force has not been used. This is the seventh time that Finland is now going to participate in this. They've never been used before. There are many reasons for that. However, one reason is not that there was no need for it. There has been a clear need, but one factor has been both the underlying political reasons and the economic reasons for the fact that this is always financed by the participating Member States, and it may have limited this willingness to use these units. Here, among other things, the chairman of the committee referred to the fact that the Athena mechanism has now been developed in such a way that resources could be made available from the Union's common funds to this end, and it could also be an appropriate path for Finland, which means that we could support this form more so that it would come from the Union's common budget. By the way, I drew the same attention as Mr Ovaska to the fact that it was great to see that the Finns of Finland not only support this whole EU project, but are also actively willing to find funding for it, which may indicate a gradual change of direction. True Finns see the importance and importance of this transnational cooperation,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u27	Mr President! I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Niikko, for presenting this matter to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I also drew attention to the fact that good work has been done in the Committee on Defence for a long time on these costs and on their analysis. That's good. As has been said a little with one voice, it is a good thing that this report came from there unanimously. However, national security is too important for us to deliberately dig a hole between each other. That is why it is a good thing that Mr Mustajärvi has adopted this green brush model, which Mr Harjanne has already implemented: he says that he is of a certain mind here, and then he does the opposite. However, it is very important that we have a common position on this issue. And I must thank the representatives of Ovaska and Kiljunen for having noticed the good cooperation of the Finns on security. Yes, we are always happy to be involved in matters that improve the security of both Finns and Europeans, which is precisely what we are happy to be involved in if it is of any benefit to Finland. This may be the kind of political capital that often benefits us. It is always argued that political capital can be obtained by setting up a gift fund or by committing to some type of loan guarantee. There is no indication of that, however, but what I have understood about this German-led combat force has been very good cooperation in that direction for a long time. This is the seventh time, and both the Foreign Affairs and Defence Administration are very pleased with this. I would also like to point out that there was talk of civilian crisis management and crisis management in general, and I would like to ask Minister Haavisto: how are we going to secure civilian crisis management resources and also peace mediation resources? Is it possible that this development aid money could be transferred there? After all, many conflicts are escalating and then causing other suffering, for which development aid may be used. However, in Finland we have good cooperation in the direction of both the Council of Europe and the OSCE, ODIHR and others, and I think it should be strengthened. However, these are preventive measures, and the consequences are always far more painful. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this is also very good in terms of education. This will certainly improve our performance. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u28	Mr President! Finland is now participating for the seventh time in the EU Battlegroup, and it is important for Finland to contribute to strengthening the role of the European Union in crisis management. The experience of previous participations has been positive for Finland, and this time, too, it can be particularly appreciated. Participation in combat teams strengthens Finland’s crisis management capabilities and deepens the Finnish troops’ ability to cooperate with other Union countries. This improves Finland’s readiness to provide and receive military assistance. However, as has been pointed out in previous speeches, the concept of the Battlegroup itself needs to be updated. It is important for the credibility of the system to be able to remove obstacles to the usability of the department. As stated by the committees, Finland is invited to play an active role in highlighting the development targets of the concept. It is particularly important to find a solution to the distribution of costs. Battlegroups are a good tool for crisis management that could be used when a rapid response to crises and conflicts is needed. Unfortunately, at the moment, its diverse potential is almost completely unexploited. Hopefully, in the future, the problems of the concept will be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u29	Mr President! In short, only to Mr Junnila: my opinion on the referral debate has not changed or changed. I merely explained my arguments at the time, as I said just now, what I think about it, and I also said that I did not disagree, even if it could well have been left behind. But a short estimate is that there is not much to use for a dead concept like this, and yes, in this past time I have measured my own vigour on some issues so that I have received the maximum penalty in this Parliament that I can receive at all, so that I can be quite capable of doing so in terms of both EU criticism and other matters. But I have noticed that I have had to give peer support to many Finns when they, when they talk about arms and armaments, have lost all EU criticism. I have tried to guide and advise the Finns on the need to be consistent that if we talk about arms or military power, it must not necessarily mean giving up on that criticism of the EU. And I am prepared to continue to give my full support to the Finns in the EU criticalism that it would be as wide-ranging as possible, but I think that I will be in this Parliament for longer than the one-term parliamentary representative who has not yet approved any country-specific support package, the EU support package and, among other things, the European stability mechanism.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u30	Mr President! For my part, I would like to thank the Finns for their comments from a different point of view than Mr Mustajärvi. He thanked you for your Eurocratism, the criticalness of euro integration. I thank you for finding each other at least on a point where we agree on this, on the need and benefits of this European integration for Finland and this continent as a whole. Your concern was now security, and I just wanted to say that the concept of security, when you understand it correctly, is not just military and military. If you limit it to it, then you will be left in a very narrow corner. It is quite clear that the security supplement to European integration comes from the fact that we have common legislation, we have a single market, we have an area of freedom of movement here, we have a common currency. All of this creates the genuine security community that we Finns enjoy in Europe,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u33	Mr President! To this end, I would like to mention the fact that, three weeks ago, in the debate on referrals to the Group of the Finns Party, it was made clear that this participation in the Battle Group or its establishment is not necessarily necessary. As we have now seen in this debate, it is hardly going to be used, and in that sense perhaps the benefit is not what the Defence Forces are seeking, for example. However, I understand that this is the case — I will ask the ministers when you say: is it not precisely crisis management that is the primary task of this? This is not an extension of the army or any other offensive force. After all, crisis management is common throughout Europe, so in that sense we understand that it is good to participate in such projects. And is it true, however, that the combat force here is primarily prepared to be involved in crises outside Europe? This is certainly not an internal European army. And then the second question: When the cost is estimated at EUR 5.7 million, this money actually goes back to the budget, because this is where we buy some accessories and pay existing daily allowances and reserve allowances, so that money is actually spent on the Defence Forces' own maintenance costs, especially now, if this training period is not held at all. Is this true? It was not mentioned in the committee that, for some reason, the training period was cancelled, which I heard from the Committee on Defence in the speech that has just been made, that there would be no training period at all. Is this accurate information? If not, then the transport costs, which are a very large part of it, will also be spared from this cost item. If the Minister has any further comments of this kind, I would be grateful. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u34	For the ministers, three minutes. — Minister Haavisto, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u35	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate, good questions and comments. I will start with the points raised by Mr Essayah, and Mr Kaikkonen will certainly respond more closely to this shooting against UNIFIL. Perhaps this too shows how important it is that situational information and intelligence is in the area where you move so that you know if you are in a friendly or hostile climate. And this is the very essence of peace-keeping that we know the environment in which we move. In the case of Iraq, too, from the OIR — in concrete terms, Minister Kaikkonen can supplement: It is perhaps good to note the political developments that have now taken place in Iraq, the appointment of a new Prime Minister and the formation of a government. And this has been one of these bottlenecks as to whether we have a partner in this OR operation and what the contractor thinks about its continuation, and under the circumstances of the new government this is likely to be achieved. Our delegation in Baghdad, which was now temporarily closed because of the corona crisis, is now also trying to open up with a rapid timetable so that we can have a presence there as well. The representative also raised this aspect of health safety, Mr Tanus, and this is a new perspective and a new thinking perhaps, which is now being underlined by the corona crisis — a very important issue. I also think it was a good idea to highlight this development and crisis management interface. That is, of course, the essence of all the responses to crises. I agree with all those who say that we must increase the level of activity in getting this task force mandate and funding and others in order. Mr Ronkainen made a very good speech about this, and I promise you that we will be as active as we can be as Finland in this regard, so that we can be clear on these issues. Mr Östman raised the issue and many others raised the role of civilian crisis management in their speeches, and I quite agree that its importance has actually only increased when you look at modern crises, what is needed there. And it is good to remember that, often in civilian crisis management, we may think first of the police force, that there may be a need for mayors and health staff and environmental experts and a very wide range of civilian crisis management activities in order to get societies on their feet. Here I believe that as Finland we can be good and give even more. Then, too, there was the question of the resources for mediation and civilian crisis management in Mr Junnila. During this government, efforts have been made to increase them. Perhaps such little good news for this mediation field: the peace process has not been interrupted during the corona if we look at Afghanistan and look at the situation in the Horn of Africa and others in difficult circumstances, and After all, there has now been some kind of cease-fire in Yemen at the time of the corona and so on, and there is a slight wave of hope that the peace process will continue to move forward during this period. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u36	Mr President! I'll start with that UNIFIL situation, which was Monday. That was a rather serious situation — fortunately, however, personal injury was avoided. According to the information I have received, there is a Finnish patrol that has been stopped with local vehicles. It had three Finnish vehicles and had some kind of stoning and also one shot hit a Finnish vehicle. The answer to Mr Kiuru in the same context: fortunately, we have a good and proper equipment there, which will last, and in that sense no one was in danger of life. The Finnish patrol then got out of that situation on its own, and the situation calmed down later. That is what we are going to find out. We have no idea what was the reason for this. In fact, I visited that UNIFIL operation last autumn. Sometimes these kinds of incidents occur. After all, we have some dead in the last decade, unfortunately. They are rare, but sometimes they can happen in these crisis management missions. It must always be identified when sending our men and women into these tasks, that there is a risk that something will happen. The Finns themselves have a good reputation in Lebanon, and their work as a rule is appreciated by the locals, and there is a need for the task to continue. It is also a very cost-effective operation that we can get around 200 people to keep there at reasonable cost and at the same time secure its regional stability there. But let's see if we can get some more information on this. After that, I hope we'll be smarter. With regard to Iraq: There was indeed a reduction in the number of people from the beginning of April, leaving less than twenty people there to take care of our equipment, among other things, and that training activities can start again normally when conditions make it possible. There is no information yet, as that training activity could be started and returned to Finland — at the earliest in the late summer, but we will monitor the situation in the region and see where it is possible. There are also plans to reorganise the entire operation, and it may also have some impact on the participation of Finns in the future, but it will become more precise in the near future. Eighty, that whole strength was what we had there. Then, in a few speeches, there were critical observations about this whole concept. I believe that these critical observations can be made on this point, and that what the committees said about this too is quite justified. Both the committees and Parliament and the government believe that there are development needs here, and this response from Parliament is now a good guide for action and progress on this issue. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u37	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. And I'll tell you in advance, even with binoculars in this title, there's no mention of geese.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u38	Mr President! This government's proposal for a law on the procedures to be applied in the wake of the covid-19 epidemic of income limits for agricultural abandonment aid is part of the broad package in which we want to ensure the availability of seasonal workers needed for special crop farms in agriculture. This is a problem for farms, it is well-known, and it requires a wide range of solutions, and this is one of them. Maintenance of primary production is particularly important for the security of supply in our country, and food security is emphasised in such exceptional circumstances. As one of the measures to ensure the availability of domestic seasonal labour, the Government stated in its negotiations at the beginning of May that a temporary non-application of the income limits of the waiver would be carried out. This is the most important time of the year to ensure food security, i.e. a new harvest season. The need for seasonal farm labour extends from spring plantings up to October to sustainable harvests. As the interest rate situation continues, possible illness may also cause additional labour needs for the rest of the year. Critical personnel are those with specialist skills. The most critical and urgent work has been identified at the beginning of the growing season of agricultural and horticultural production, as well as in the management of farm animals, for which professional factors must be known. Specific skills and skills that are important for primary production can be estimated to be available to those who have abandoned farming, former farmers. However, from the point of view of the waiver legislation, the waiverors have only limited opportunities to work in paid employment without the income earned affecting the right of the transferor to receive the waiver. The aim of the Government and this proposal is to promote the exploitation of the labour input and skills of beneficiaries of the waiver, thereby contributing, under exceptional circumstances, to the achievement of security of supply objectives in sectors critical to primary production, of course in agriculture and the horticultural sector. This proposal would make it possible temporarily to visit beneficiaries eligible for agricultural abandonment aid in order to ensure security of supply in exceptional circumstances in critical tasks for the sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, without the amount of income earned at work affecting the right to withdrawal aid for the period 16 March this year — the end of the year. The proposed law would not apply certain conditions relating to the payment of, and the start of, the payment of, the income threshold, the suspension of the payment of the waiver and the reporting obligation of the beneficiary of the waiver during this period. This is a temporary dismantling of a kind of income restriction aimed at encouraging former farmers, under exceptional circumstances in order to safeguard security of supply, to work in gainful employment for critical tasks in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. It is estimated that of some 1,900 people in the area of apostasy, this proposal affects a few hundred persons. It is proposed to apply the law retroactively in order to ensure equal treatment for beneficiaries. However, according to the Dismissal Aid Act, the aid is not paid for less than a calendar month, so it could be paid for months from April to May. President! Finally, from the point of view of the administrative burden, the proposal can be estimated as the simplest solution for the payment and management of the aid. To the farmer's pension institution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u39	Mr President! This government proposal is welcome and supported. As the Minister said, such a large number of people are not affected, but one might say that it is all the more important. It is now a question of key people when such terms are sometimes used. There is often talk of high-paid managers in business life. We are talking about people who have made a career in agriculture with know-how, knowledge and understanding, and they are able to help in this situation, which is why this temporary legislation should remove these restrictions on incomes in respect of apostasy. And, as the Minister said, this is also rarely retrospectively seen in the case of April-May, so that it does not bring more bureaucracy. Mr President! We know that, at the moment, the situation of seasonal workers as a whole is still, in many ways, difficult and at stake. I said to the minister that it was important to know now how the situation of those seasonal workers from abroad, especially those from Russia, is being resolved. There are distressed berry farmers who call and say that even the knowledge that no one is coming would make it easier in this situation, because there are many people there who are now afraid to do the hiring when they think that, in the worst case scenario, they have two employees in their hands. I therefore hope that many ministers will cooperate here, including from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in order to clarify this situation. But, Mr President, this government proposal must be absolutely supported and, indeed, urgently achieved in order to alleviate the shortage of farm workers in this corona epidemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u40	Mr President! It is estimated that around 100 to 500 people would be employed on the basis of the proposal and that they are not expected to work for the entire duration of the proposed law due to seasonal work. It is essential that the competent and professional input from former farmers should now be made fully available, and the proposal should therefore be supported. However, I agree with the Federation of Agricultural and Forestry Producers that a fixed-term tool would also be needed for the recruitment of young people and students. There are over half a million students in Finland aged 18 or over, of whom only a little more than half are employed. It is therefore clear that students have huge labour potential, but the highest income limits in the Nordic countries do not encourage students to work. Work will be punished for the recovery of student aid. Early acquired work experience supports employment through a future career. I therefore propose that the government allow students to accept seasonal work that is critical for security of supply without the recovery of study aid for 2020, in order to see employment on the farm as an attractive and economically viable option. Alternatively, I propose that the government temporarily remove the income limits for student support for 2020. This would also be part of the solution to the acute shortage of labour on farms.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u41	Mr President! This government proposal is one way of facilitating Finnish agricultural production during an exceptional period due to the interest rate. This proposal proposes temporary relief for the so-called old masters, who are receiving a waiver. As former farmers, they have the specific skills and skills required in agriculture. The proposal covers, in all, around 1,900 beneficiaries of the waiver. For most, the amount of the waiver aid is less than EUR 1000 per month. As a result of the income restriction, only a small proportion of the beneficiaries of the waiver have temporarily worked so hard that the maximum income would have been exceeded. In the current epidemic situation, it would be important to make all possible domestic labour input fully available. This government proposal provides a natural opportunity to make use of the existing labour reserve on farms, which has been subject to strict income restrictions. People on the drop-out allowance have become accustomed to heavy and demanding work already during their working lives. It is good that those still in good working capacity will be able to help with agricultural work at a time when the recruitment of seasonal workers has not been normal. If the predicted wave movement in the corona epidemic occurs and the next peak is expected in the autumn, it must also be possible to use those who are on withdrawal support to gain the workforce. For the foreign labour force, the desired amount has not been achieved and the future does not look brighter. To this day, I have been contacted by a dairy farmer in the North Ostrobothnia region who struggled with their desperate efforts to get a Ukrainian worker to ease their hard work. An employee’s flight has already been paid and a furnished rental dwelling awaits, but getting an employee from Helsinki 600 km away to the corona quarantine seems to be a bottleneck. It is quite difficult to leave the barn of seedlings and 150 cows to drive themselves to Helsinki. With bad luck, the corona itself will fall ill, and then it would only be a disaster on the farm if no vacationers were available anyway. Mr President! It is therefore now important to mobilise all possible domestic labour to ensure security of supply. It would also be desirable for further preparation of the draft law to take into account the fact that local holiday offices could use the people on the apostasy allowance for the provision of replacement aid on livestock farms. In any case, when the disease is taken by surprise, the animals need nurses. Also, harvesting work does not wait for the end of sick leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u42	Mr President! A significant part of the urgent need for labour right now is for seasonal work in agriculture, especially on vegetable land and gardens. Throughout the winter, rural entrepreneurs have been calling out in distress, as the shortage of labour already threatened spring sowings and, as the crisis persists, could threaten even part of food production. A few weeks ago, a government proposal was adopted in Parliament to exempt foreign citizens residing in Finland from the opportunities to work in areas important for security of supply and the functioning of the labour market. That solution was and remains, unfortunately, totally inadequate for this problem itself. It is understandable that many farmers have already made a decision not to invest in seedlings and seeds at all this spring — seasonal labour when it is necessary to have certainty not only in planting but also in autumn during harvest. I therefore believe that it is necessary and desirable for the government to do everything in its power to resolve the labour crisis. The government is now proposing exceptional procedures which would be applied provisionally to the provisions and laws on the income threshold for the abandonment of agricultural aid. In view of the limited availability of foreign seasonal labour under the current exceptional circumstances, efforts must be made to increase the availability of domestic labour, in particular for the needs of the horticultural and agricultural sectors, for spring, summer and autumn seasonal labour. The beneficiaries of the waiver are former farmers and possess the specific skills and skills required in agriculture. For this reason, the beneficiaries of the waiver should be allowed to work more without losing the waiver. The thing is, it's someone's job to eat something. That is why I support the government's proposal. And, Mr President, just as Mr Mattila said, the only sustainable and certainly secure solution to agriculture is domestic production with the best possible domestic labour force and as much domestic machinery as possible. Isn't that right, Minister Leppä?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u43	Mr President! Every day, crop-farming farms are now waiting for solutions to the acute problem of seasonal agricultural labour. This proposal by the government on the possibility for those who are giving up aid to do agricultural work without losing their aid for abandonment — albeit within the deadline of mid-March until the end of this year — is, of course, a good one. It concerns those people who are familiar with these works, who have done them as a life’s work and are apparently still able to do them quite well for their condition, so in that sense this proposal must be regarded as very commendable. It may, in principle, affect some 1,900 people, but the government itself considers in this proposal that in practice it would affect up to 100 to 500 people, so it must be said that this is marginal in relation to the overall problem. Thank you to the government for this. These apostasy workers — this apostasy subsidy is very small, it is about 1000 euros a month — need additional income, and surely they also have such a moral desire to help get into this work in this situation. However, it is expected on the farms that this foreign, practically non-EU and EEA seasonal agricultural workforce, the labour force that has mainly done these jobs here over the last few years, will then be effectively brought into the country. At the moment there is such a number limit, 4500 people. I think it could be removed quickly,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u46	Mr President! The Korona virus has shown how uncertain our security of supply is. For decades, our security of supply has been maintained through foreign labour. Now 15,000 seasonal workers are needed for the harvest, but they have been insecure and have now come to the country, according to the background of the bill, 450. The Finns have applied very much for jobs on farms, but farmers have unexpectedly waited to see if even some of those who have worked on farms for years could be able to work on farms where they may have worked for years. However, the dependence of the agricultural sector on foreign labour is not sustainable, especially in the current exceptional circumstances. Imagine how companies would do if, suddenly, not all permanent employees could get to work sites: even if a new and enthusiastic domestic workforce were to be obtained, the productivity rate at the beginning of the work is naturally lower and takes time to complete the induction process and the efficiency of the work is at a good level. Finns seem constantly to have less and less experience in agricultural work. For a long time, it has been mainly the work of young people, those starting their careers, from which after a couple of years they then move on to better paid and less heavy jobs. I do not want to criticise Finnish producers or even foreign workers, but the political choices that have led to this situation over the years. Agriculture requires a return to honour. Producer prices have been trampled down too long and the wages of agricultural workers have been reduced to a minimum. For example, for a kilo of industrial potatoes, the producer has received only 8 cents at its lowest, and similarly, for example, the producer of domestic beet sugar receives only about 18 cents of the sugar pound. This kind of producer price does not get rich, even if money comes from national and EU-recyclable agricultural subsidies. This temporary law would allow those who have already abandoned agricultural work to work on farms without reducing the income earned from work. It should be noted that many of their farms, for example as a result of the generational change, who have left the farm for their child to continue their farm work without pay even after years of abandonment, so to speak, as an old master. On many farms, this centuries - old arrangement goes on, no matter what crises the world and our country are experiencing. This bill alone does not save the security of supply of agriculture — even if it is in the right direction — because we know that the bill concerns the 1900 quitters, of which between 100 and 500 are believed to be employed. However, I repeat that the need for seasonal workers is 15,000, which is much more than that. Mr President! It is good that the importance of agriculture has now emerged during the corona period. Finns are eager to sign up for agricultural work, which shows solidarity and increased community. It is to be hoped that problems in the agricultural sector will also be addressed in the post-interest period. Pure domestic food is worth defending. Appreciation should also be reflected in producer prices and in the wages of agricultural workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u47	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that I am happy to support this government proposal, which is one, of course limited, as is the case with many other instruments, but one way of getting more people for this particular year's agricultural duties. This target group we are talking about is Finnish long-term agricultural workers, and in that sense it is a very good way and an addition. If I understood correctly when I listened to the Minister's presentation outside the Chamber, it would be hundreds of people, so that is the measure. Mr President! In this context, we cannot fail to mention these foreign seasonal workers, to which the previous two speakers have already referred. I also agree with the view that this limit of 4500 must be abolished in this situation, especially if and when Ukraine is also ready to send people here. Every now and then, we quote newspaper articles here and there. I don't have any newspaper writing with me, but I have to say that last Sunday was one of the best in a long time, when the Helsingin Sanomat had a Closed Land Strawberry in it, where the journalist had followed the situation from the inside with a Halikko berry farm. I am quite sure that anyone who read that article understood that, at least in the short term and at least this summer, the situation is that if there is no foreign labour for Finnish berry farms, we will not have strawberries in the store either. It became so clear. Although there were also Finnish workers on the farm and, as the previous speaker said, there has also been an increase in the number of Finnish workers, which is also necessary, there are also skilled jobs that cannot be taken out of the forest, so to speak. Part of the work is also of the kind of work that has to be done almost round the clock or around the clock, and then it is very important that the workforce is also very close to that actual work station. And there are many other things, as was perfectly evident here. In other words, realism is the need for the means by which Finns are better attracted, by various means, such as this, to agricultural work, especially this summer, but we will also need foreign labour. It is needed this summer and will continue to be necessary if the Finnish economy starts to rise again, as I hope and believe.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u48	Mr President! The government is turning all the stones to protect seasonal labor. This bill is proof of that. In addition to the decisions already taken, the temporary non-application of the income ceiling for the waiver is an important increase — perhaps small but nevertheless important — in order to ensure the availability of domestic seasonal labour and food supply. However, as has been demonstrated here, other means and solutions are still needed to replace all the 16,000 seasonal workers who usually come to the country to work, especially in horticulture and forest berry picking. In the long term too, as has been suggested here, we must consider how to secure our food security in a global world where the workforce is moving. It's not gonna stop. It's going to go on, it's going on, it's going on. We need to think about new ways of ensuring that this food service works better than we do today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u49	Mr President! The purpose of this Government's proposal is to temporarily allow beneficiaries eligible for agricultural abandonment aid to be employed and to ensure security of supply in exceptional circumstances for their part. The law is meant to come into force as soon as possible, and that is an excellent thing. The need for farms is already high, and this proposal will certainly also prevent the amount of undeclared work. With this presentation, it is genuinely possible to have a domestic, highly skilled workforce for agricultural and horticultural farms that are very important for our security of supply, and, as Mr Kiviranta said earlier, this workforce is certainly motivated to do this work. I cannot help but commenting on a few points on the opinion of the MTK on this draft law, specifically the fact that many farms already have growing concerns about the availability of skilled labour for the jobs of the coming summer growing season, and also on whether it is possible to safeguard animal welfare on livestock farms in the face of an epidemic of labour problems. In its opinion, the MTK also takes the view that the proposed amendment is one of the means of securing the work of this growing season. According to the proposal, there are around 1900 beneficiaries of the waiver, of which the 100 to 500 persons mentioned earlier would possibly be employed by this proposal. However, it can be precisely that critical know-how and the necessary workforce. It is understandable that not all beneficiaries will be employed when the average age of the beneficiaries was over 61 years. In any case, it is a good proposal and it is to be welcomed, and perhaps the next one will also apply to the annual income limit for student study aid and to raising or possible abolition of it, as has been mentioned here in previous speeches. After this crisis, we must finally have the debate that will enable us to resolve in the long term the attractiveness of farms and the horticultural sector, the low-wage sector, in the future. We need a broad debate on producer and consumer prices and a long-term agricultural strategy. As the Minister mentioned at the outset, it is very important that domestic food and security of supply are taken care of, and that is our task at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u50	Within the time available, I will give the floor to the representatives who have asked for it, Mr Pylväs, Mr Satonen, Mr Tanus and Mr Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u51	Mr President! This system of abandonment aid for farmers has been an excellent system for bringing the youngest farmers in Europe to Finland, and when we talk about food supply and security of supply, we are grateful that we have young producers who are producing this food for us. It is only a pity that this system has ended in 2018 — it would have liked to have been followed up, of course, by involving these generational exchanges and young entrepreneurs in agricultural production more in order to achieve this continuity. Of course, it is important to note that, in this case of seasonal workers, this government proposal is one part of such a larger package that has responded to this problem of access to foreign workers caused by the corona, but of course this seasonal work is most important in the berry and garden farms where these hand pairs from abroad have been very important. Personally, I would see that this government proposal responds more to the problem of basic agriculture. If you need such special skills because of illness cases, extreme professionalism, you will find the professional and long-term experience of these people who are covered by the waiver, and I believe that this government proposal will help you to do so far more than offer hand pairs on the berry and garden side. Fortunately, construction services are available for seasonal work in the basic agricultural sector today. We have a huge comprehensive system of crop cultivation specialists who then, if necessary, will be able to help if this kind of crisis there in the holding of this corona somehow culminates. I would like to ask the Minister for estimates: do these retired farmers in LUTU have more help for berry and horticultural farms, i.e. how is regional impact, or is it on the basic agricultural side? In Finland, however, we have quite differentiated these areas of berry and horticultural farms compared to areas where there is very strong animal husbandry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u52	Mr President! It should always be worthwhile to move from work to work in all life situations and occupations. This proposal may not be the answer to the whole problem, but it is in the right direction and, as several representatives have already said, one step towards securing the workforce on farms. In practice, therefore, the purpose of the proposal is to promote the labour input and acquisition of knowledge of the beneficiaries of the waiver in agriculture, even in exceptional times. What is also important in this proposal is to support security of supply, particularly in agriculture and the horticultural sector, where primary production is critical. Korona has caused concern, among other things, in Satakunta, Finland’s food fence, which is concentrated in the food industry. For example, there are many concerns in Huittisi, where potato products are made for public sector needs. First of all, of course, there was concern about sudden, sudden interruptions of orders, but now there is also concern about the availability of raw materials in the future. To meet the needs of the food industry — we must remember — a large proportion of our agricultural products also go. If we cannot, as it were, secure it, then the problems in the public sector, for example, will also be a shortage of raw materials in food production there. This chain of food may be longer than what we often talk about, from the strawberry farm or directly from the field to the consumer. There is also a huge amount going to the food industry and then to different needs, schools, nursing homes, workplaces. In this regard, we must do everything we can to enable us to feed from that field again this summer to meet these needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u53	Mr President! This government proposal is very much to be welcomed, and we thank you for it, although, of course, it does not solve the problem when it affects a very small number of people. But in any case, there will be a skilled, experienced group who will receive a waiver, and I would see that it is a very good thing that they will be able to participate and bring in their knowledge and experience and then receive income from it and not lose their earnings and not give up. Security of supply is a very important issue and I think that self-sufficiency in agriculture and forestry too, in the food sector, should be pursued in every way. I would like to see that, in the same way as in health and social services, we should make every effort to ensure that all Finns, the citizens of this country, receive the necessary medical care, health care and social care, and so on, with the same level of effort, that we also have self-sufficiency in food production and also that living countryside for the years to come — and not just self-sufficiency, but I would see that there is also a huge opportunity here for large and increasing exports in the future. But I would like to ask the Minister, when there is a lot of discussion here about it and there is concern that it might not be possible to get that skilled group from abroad to the extent that it would be desirable and still desirable: while at the same time we have a large number of unemployed or students in Finland who would like to have a job and perhaps also the first contact with the working world, and also to learn about the practical work there, what measures have been or will be taken so that as many Finns as possible who need work can also take on these agricultural jobs that are critical for security of supply, and what has been done to ensure that education and learning are as quick and effective as possible on the farms, so that there should not only be experienced, good and effective workers from abroad who are expected but that our own employees and those learners can be good learners and efficient workers? I would still ask, as has already been said here: could it be thought that the temporary abolition of this study aid could be considered and perhaps implemented quickly? After all, we have had students studying at a distance for the last few months — and will it continue to do so in the autumn and longer? — there would certainly be many there who would like to take up work in this area too, and I think that perhaps this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u54	Mr President! It is true that even a Member of Parliament who has no experience in agriculture understands that we are facing a major problem. Only a fraction of the people needed for these jobs are available. This bill is very good. Its aim is to get former farmers who have the specific skills to enter into this work and to encourage it precisely so that they do not lose that withdrawal aid. In this respect, Mr Tanus and others have also raised other groups, such as students, who could likewise be used on farms through their input, but the problem is these income limits. For us, the income limits per year are less than EUR 12,000, and if you go beyond that, then you will lose those student grants. We must remember that in the other Nordic countries — Sweden, Norway, Denmark — the figure is between 18,000 and 19,000 a year, and we are very much behind this. Of course, it must also be remembered that these students are not now professionals in that way, as are those who receive the waiver, but certainly many of them would be able to be trained in those tasks. Yes, many of us will remember the time when the first summer work was done by picking strawberries and similar natural products. I doubt that youth today has come so far that they too could not learn these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u55	Mr President! Thank you for the good debate and the feedback you have received, and also for the many suggestions you have made, ladies and gentlemen. We're gonna take all of these. All of these will be looked at. The situation is so critical that every stone must be turned, as one of you said here, and that is what will be done. It is also noteworthy, even in the light of the debate which has taken place, that in exceptional circumstances self-sufficiency, which gives us security of supply, is seen as important. It does not come about by itself; it requires long-term work. It requires work, especially when we live in a normal time period, that we remember that sometimes it can also happen as it has now happened — for example, that we did not get any seasonal work abroad at all. We had such a moment this spring that no one came from there, and it was not because of Finland, not because of government decisions or from this country, but because they were not allowed to leave. That is why this situation needs a number of administrative cooperation, as we in the government have done and as was very well highlighted in this debate. Otherwise, this issue will not be resolved, and it will also require the international dialogue, the dialogue between the European Union, that we have reached the situation in which we are now, when we have been able to obtain and secure the need for the workforce that the farms have. It must always be remembered that the dependency on foreign labour is well under 10%, so it is not huge in terms of our overall security of supply, but there are critical points that may change the colour of our dish if it cannot be guaranteed. That is what this is all about, and that is why it is critical that we get those experienced workers from abroad and also those motivated from home to work on farms. It is quite true that that uncertainty on the farms is perhaps the worst thing: whether we can get workers to come or not. In the next few days, the government will negotiate on this matter and get new solutions, and they will come back to them when the government has held its own negotiations, and then it will be resolved. President! Last observation: Profitability, the functioning of the market are central, of course in conjunction with the aid policy pursued. Our entire food system, as was said here, is long, with lots of parts,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u56	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u57	Mr President! The Corona virus epidemic is currently causing both layoffs and the termination of employment and partial employment when access to additional work is difficult. At the same time, we also have job vacancies. However, the location of the job and the place where you are laid off or unemployed do not always meet. This may be the case, for example, in agricultural and horticultural jobs. By means of the Unemployment Security Act, the unemployment benefit system, we are already supporting the reception of both part-time and job work. This means mediation of unemployment benefit. The unemployment benefit system already supports regional mobility in the pursuit of work, and here it is a mobility grant, an unfortunately ill-known support for the reception of work. The purpose of this bill is to temporarily increase incentives for employment in order to safeguard security of supply in exceptional circumstances in critical tasks for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, but also to provide more support for the reception of work and the financial situation of beneficiaries in the context of the covid-19 epidemic, as we move to the opening-up stage in society. The discussion on the means has taken place together with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and the work is based on the need for labour in agricultural and horticultural farms. However, agriculture is not alone when it comes to employment or additional employment. For example, the government proposal on support for nutritionists contains an element of part-time work. The application of the temporary incentives exemptions referred to in this proposal does not depend on the employer’s sector of activity. The proposal proposes to amend 11 May. the law on temporary derogations from the Unemployment Protection Act, which entered into force because of the covid-19 epidemic. It is proposed that two new articles be added to this fresh law. The protective part of the unemployment benefit mediation is proposed for a temporary increase. The protection component is the proportion of earnings that is not taken into account when paying the adjusted unemployment benefit. According to the proposal, the protection component would rise from EUR 300 to EUR 500 per month. The formula itself would not be changed. Also, during the temporary derogation, half of the gross income exceeding the protection component reduces the full monthly unemployment benefit. The temporary derogation would apply to those who are partially employed, regardless of the sector in which the person is employed and whether he is an employee or an entrepreneur. The temporary derogation would also apply to those partially employed who are already in part-time employment before the proposed entry into force of the Act. This temporary exception encourages and secures livelihoods in a situation where it is even more difficult to get more work, for example, how demand for services emerges when we jointly open up society. With regard to the mobility allowance provided for in the Unemployment Security Act, the Government's proposal proposes a temporary derogation concerning the condition of the average time spent on commuting entitlement to the mobility allowance in the case of full-time work. This condition would now be temporarily dropped from more than three hours to more than two hours. The derogation would temporarily harmonise the condition of time spent on commuting for full and part-time work. Mr President! The Parliament and the Government have both been concerned about how the Social Insurance Institution and unemployment funds will cope with the processing of unemployment benefit applications, as the number of layoffs in particular has increased rapidly. It is important that the work of the executives is supported. Support may be financial, strengthening the implementation resources, and this additional support was included in the second amending budget for 2020. The need for prompt processing must also be taken into account when we seek social security solutions for people's livelihoods and, on the other hand, the availability of labour. That is why this proposal has also been based on existing legislation. The government proposal does not propose new elements for the unemployment benefit system, but makes use of the existing elements. The changes do not target specific sectors, but cover all sectors of the profession. No new conditions or new situations are proposed for access to unemployment benefit, but temporary derogations are made to existing conditions. Mr President! The Act is intended to enter into force as soon as possible and would expire at the same time as the recently adopted Act of 11 May with derogations from unemployment benefit would expire.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u58	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. Of course, it is important that we are able to ensure that, in the case of the unemployed, the traps are not the ones that are currently preventing us from taking up temporary work. As the Minister has pointed out, in particular and in principle, there is concern about seasonal work on farms and horticultural farms, but also, of course, about other work. I believe that the temporary increase in this component of unemployment benefit is precisely an encouraging element. It is also important to note here that this increase in the protection component would also apply to the reconciliation of the merits of business, and it will certainly also contribute to supporting those who are employed on a secondary basis and also those who receive temporary labour market support. I could imagine that this mobility allowance, even though the number of hours is now changing in just one hour, would also be one that would encourage unemployed people to also seek temporary and temporary, short-term employment. Mr President! In this context, however, it is good to point out that these are the very basic elements of our Finnish system of social security and unemployment security — labour market support, basic daily allowance and, on the other hand, social security often linked to them — that the coordination of them in the context of this social security reform is the one that is likely to be the best way to solve these incentive problems. For the most part, we are in a situation where, on the basis of housing, social security and the coordination of unemployment security, for example, the so-called Bermuda Triangle is causing a real difficulty for people to push out, because the increase in one benefit is cutting another, or if there is more income, it is cutting more of these social benefits than this earned income is. This is particularly evident in short-term, fixed-term contracts. In that sense, it must only be said that it is certainly a good thing to take forward this legislation in such a timely manner, but then it will be a reality there when we go to reform this legislation on social security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u59	Mr President! The aim of the proposal is therefore to support not only the reception and movement of agricultural seasonal work in pursuit of seasonal work but also to facilitate the reception of other work and regional mobility in pursuit of work. The Minister explained that the proposal temporarily increases the protection component of unemployment benefit from the current EUR 300 per month to EUR 500 per month, saying that it would facilitate the reception of part-time work and short-term work, particularly in these farms and horticultural farms, but also elsewhere. In addition, the mobility allowance would be paid on a temporary basis even for shorter commuting. It is therefore a question of making this work more encouraging. The proposal is supported and the temporary increase in the protection component of unemployment benefit in this exceptional situation is a good thing. After all, the True Finns have already suggested that a lay-off or unemployed person who goes to work on farms should be temporarily entitled to keep the entire benefit on pay. This would have been very encouraging. At least when we did this, the government was given the green light, but I do not know where it has been forgotten. The big ‘but’for this performance is whererepresentativeEssayahkinin this case,i.e.incentivisesthistobeextremelyanything. Even if this income protection goes up, the housing allowance goes down. Raising the protective component of unemployment benefit alone may reduce housing allowance, as the gross increase in unemployment benefit will occur. I understand that this problem is well-known in the government, but it is not now proposed to raise the threshold for the protection of housing allowance. But if people really want to be able to take 15 hours of work, we would of course have to raise and look at both of these boundaries. So, unfortunately, I doubt whether this proposal really encourages, as it were, a low-paid part-time job. Nor can I avoid wondering how difficult it is to encourage Finns and people already established in the country to work compared to how easy it seems to be for asylum seekers and immigrants. It is today that an amendment to the Aliens Act has been removed from the Administrative Committee to facilitate the work of asylum seekers on farms. As shown in the presentation, the benefit will be rather nonexistent, but it came again from the government. These asylum seekers get paid for free housing, free health care, free food and a huge machine that holds hands and helps forward. In low-paid part-time work, a Finnish employee is often left at a disadvantage. If you ever tried to offer similar services or a little more carrots to Finnish unemployed people and people falling off the labour market, we could then again see if that work is good enough for Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u60	Mr President! I am surprised that there may be people in this country who are jealous of asylum seekers. But when we go to this performance, we have to say that the virus epidemic has caused a huge number of Finns to get into trouble. For example, in Vantaa, the unemployment rate, when laid-off persons are included, rose instantly from 8 to over 20. On the other hand, we also have job vacancies in Finland, but there are problems with their location, pay, working hours, contract structure, which is why a person who is in need should not take the risk of losing subsidies and worsening the economic situation even further. This proposal supports and encourages those who have lost work and have been laid off in employment and improves economic opportunities for employment in a situation where society is now being opened up. The purpose of the bill is therefore to temporarily increase incentives for employment in order to ensure security of supply in exceptional circumstances, for example in critical tasks for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. However, this proposal may be much more significant than this. Mr President! Once again, I must warmly thank Minister Pekos, who has driven the increase through with extraordinary speed. I was allowed to be involved in the negotiation of the original EUR 300 safeguard, when it was immediately established that this amount would need an increase in the future. Unfortunately, nothing happened since then in the last parliamentary term. Now the level is getting good enough. If housing allowance were to be included, the system would be more flexible and make all the more effective it would be to improve people's opportunities and employment rates. Since raising the protective section benefits not only people in difficulty but also businesses and society as a whole, it could be hoped that the will to be found in this Chamber will make it permanent,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u63	Mr President! This government proposal is also based on the desire to facilitate the use of seasonal agricultural labour. There may be other dimensions — but a temporary solution. If that previous proposal to temporarily abolish the income threshold for the abandonment of agricultural subsidies was marginal, then this is, of course, even more marginal for the seasonal workers in agriculture, but still a good one, for which we must of course be grateful. This increase from EUR 300 to EUR 500 in the protection component of the unemployment benefit thus means that this amount will not be taken into account in the payment of the adjusted unemployment benefit. In itself, a step in the right direction and perhaps in the appropriate measure. Of course, it is also a good thing to have this mobility allowance for full-time work when the average daily commuting distance is about two hours, while the current limit is three hours. These things have their own meaning. Of course, if we talk about using these recipients of unemployment benefit for seasonal agricultural work or using those who benefit from labour market support for seasonal agricultural work, then there are in practice major problems. This is where expectations are directed mainly at these laid-off entrepreneurs and those receiving labour market support, and they will be able to return to that original job any day of the day. It is also very difficult in all this seasonal work. Now the picking work should be certain that the workers there will stay in the fields, and there is already experience of this. The positive thing in itself is that the laid-off return to work or the entrepreneur returns to his entrepreneurial activity, but then the farmer will be left without the workforce very suddenly, and in that sense this is a very difficult line to deal with this seasonal problem in agriculture. It is also a fact that these numbers should suddenly be removed from the use of the labour force outside the EU and the EEA regions, and that it should also be possible to obtain the well-established workforce that these jobs have always been able to do for many, many years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u64	Mr. Speaker! Thank you, Mr Pekonen, for presenting a good presentation. There is a very challenging situation in the labour market in terms of employment. On the one hand, people have had to be laid off or laid off, on the other hand, there is the need for workers, both full-time and part-time, to operate agriculture which is very important for security of supply. Of course, however, the proposal is not limited to a single area but serves more widely, as Mr Pekonen said. In the case of the domestic labour force, the key is to seek job vacancies for unemployed people in general and, of course, flexibility in hiring employers. Job seekers and seasonal jobs must be made to meet, i.e. find each other. Although the labour market is troubled and unclear about the future, there is still a strong need for labour in many sectors. The pressure is at least now on part-time work, so that the benefits of hiring and receiving work are well justified. The Korona virus has caused a domestic wave of unemployment and lay-off, as has the availability of foreign labour. We therefore need lighters that meet the needs, and now there are such lighters available. The proposal therefore encourages and makes employment more flexible. If, and often when, the job is located at a distance from the place where the unemployed person resides, it makes sense to temporarily change the mobility allowance. The mobility allowance could therefore be paid for full-time work if the average duration of a person's daily work travel exceeds two hours instead of the current three hours. And then, Speaker, the steak of the motion. Of course, full-time work is not always possible. However, doing all kinds of work should always be profitable and serving man’s well - being. Therefore, incentives for doing and receiving work must be made. So, as has been said here, we now have an increase in the protection component of unemployment benefit from the current EUR 300 to EUR 500 per month. I regard this not only as a good hand-lifting and an expression of will for the needs of the labour force, but also as an expression of will.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u65	Mr President! This proposal has also been partly justified by the need for seasonal agricultural labour, and that is good. It may be that this too will be of little help, even though it is true that there are the challenges that Mr Kiviranta has described very well in this regard. Of course, it is only natural that if a person has lost his job in another field and then goes on to farm work for a while, then if he gets his former job back, he will also return to it. However, there are grounds for this proposal. If we go to this mobility grant first, that makes perfect sense. We face a major challenge in making it difficult for the workforce to move. In these major redundancies, we have seen very clearly, among other things, the end of industrial companies that people are very radical about changing the sector — I remember that when the Kemijärvi Salcomp was stopped, many of them went into training as a nurse and nurse, and so on — that is to say, a very radical change in the sector, but instead of being very willing to move within the country in pursuit of work when it requires moving. Of course, this is understandable in a sense, because especially for those who have families and detached houses and children's hobbies and lives there, it is not so easy to move, but it does create quite a challenge for the economy when it is extremely difficult to get new jobs to be born always where the previous one has ended. But this promotion of mobility is certainly to be welcomed. On the other hand, Mr President, on this protective part: Now Mr Saramo has already left, but when he was asking questions about the last government — that is, the Sipilä government — doing nothing about this increase in the shield, I could say to Mr Saramo and others that it would probably have been done if it were only a positive thing, but unfortunately it is not. The fact that the safety component is raised from EUR 300 to EUR 500 is certainly worth doing part-time work, but it also means that the pay gap between full-time and part-time work is decreasing all the time, when there is also a negative incentive in the other direction. That is why I am in no way in favour of permanently raising this safeguard from EUR 300 to EUR 500. It has been quite an appropriate consideration that it has been made in the past to EUR 300. It may be that an index increase is necessary, but not such an increase. But now, in a crisis situation, it is different, because it is important that as many Finns as possible should be part-time and thus stick to society. In other words, I am in favour of this government proposal, but not of making this system permanent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u66	Mr. Speaker! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. As such, I think it is a good thing that the government has applied extensively for these measures, how, in this exceptional situation, the incentives to take up work can be increased, but I cannot help but comment here on the points that have already been raised by colleagues. As far as I am concerned, this component of unemployment benefit and housing allowance has been a functional and necessary change, which has been in force for five to six years, but it has been created in a social security system such as ours today. As long as we do not make a broader reform of social security, which genuinely eliminates these traps of incentives and in practice gives a genuine incentive for people to always accept that work, whether it is short-term or longer-term, to move on to part-time work or from it directly to full-time work, such elements are necessary. But, of course, they should not be introduced permanently. Here, the impact assessment of the proposal also highlights this reverse side of the coin and notes that, as the reverse side of the possible positive effects, the increase in the protective part weakens the incentives to move from part-time to full-time work. Of course, it remains to be seen what the effects of this presentation will ultimately be, what it will really do to make people accept the work. Here, Mr Purra also pointed out the fact that this increase in the protection component of housing allowance has now been omitted. In fact, I could ask the Minister: what is the argument here that you have decided to draw up a proposal in this regard? Mr. Speaker! I will conclude by saying that these temporary changes are certainly now justified. The effects will be seen later. But this country does cry out that our current social security system, which in many respects does not encourage people in any way to accept work... We have very high structural unemployment in Finland compared to the EU level. I do not want to blame the unemployed under any circumstances, but the main reason is that this system and, once and for all, that in many circumstances the unemployed person is not in favour of taking up the job. As a second question to the Minister, how is this process of social reform going? With regard to the employment objective set by the government, it is also important that structural unemployment should be pushed down, and it is there that the issues of social security and unemployment security are major factors, so what is the matter with this reform? And hopefully now, over the next few years, we will be able to finish there as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u67	The time allocated to the proceedings seems to be running out. — Minister Pekonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u68	Mr President! I would like to thank the representatives for a very good and constructive debate. The reform of social security is also clearly emerging in this debate, and there is indeed a need for it. Mr Marttinen asked about the social security reform. Nevertheless, this spring, in April, work in the parliamentary group has been started and, like the representative, I personally hope that something will also be ready for the presentation as soon as possible. Of course, the work is very long-term, but if we get small pieces in small steps. At the beginning of this debate, Mr Essayah and also Mr Marttinen raised these incentive issues very well. They should also be studied more deeply in the overall reform of social security, as has been said, and that work is now under way. In this group, we are explicitly parliamentaryly looking at the problems raised by all parties, which have now been raised by quite a few in this debate. Representative Purra, as did representatives Saramo and Marttinen, raised the issue of the protection of this housing allowance. This was not changed because, according to the assessment of the Social Insurance Institution, as a temporary change, this would have been extremely challenging in terms of implementation. However, this issue should be looked at in the future if, for example, this social security reform leads to permanent changes in these elements of protection. I am sure that some of these changes, which have now been temporarily introduced because of this epidemic, will also be considered as permanent elements of our social security system, and that is why the impact of these changes should now be monitored very carefully, because it will also provide us with tools for this ongoing reform of social security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u69	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u70	We will now resume the debate on the 5th item which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u71	Mr President! This draft law deals with two issues: the temporary withdrawal of the unemployment benefit component and the improvement of the criteria for mobility assistance. I personally am in favour of both. After all, the protective component of unemployment protection was introduced in January 2014, and it was already considered what impact this protective part has on people’s motivation to take up work. It certainly has not had a significant impact, but, of course, as unemployment drags on, it may be that a person is alienated from working life and does not necessarily go back to looking for work if it seems that the same money can be paid without doing anything. But the purpose of this protective part was to have an initial effect that it would be particularly worthwhile to take up work even when it comes to small jobs or very short-term jobs. Its idea is that when it was EUR 300, the amount exceeding will affect the amount of unemployment benefit, with 50% of gross income reducing the amount of benefit to be paid. This proposal now proposes that this EUR 300 be temporarily increased to EUR 500. This is estimated to increase unemployment security expenditure by EUR 25 million. Now, if we look at today's unemployment figures, we have almost 162,000 people laid off in full time, and there are more than half a million employees in the negotiations, so we are talking about a large number of people who may be affected by this reform. Mr President! I would also like to point out that, a few years ago, in the Parliamentary Information Service, I calculated that what if this protective component were raised from 300 to 500 euros? I also did so in such a way that it would be raised in a linear way, depending on the level of earned income of the person before becoming unemployed, because that protective part of EUR 300 could mean a different amount for the person who received EUR 1500 than for the person who received EUR 3,500. In other words, should that portion of protection be somehow dependent on the previous level of pay — one of the things I would like to see considered at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. I think that when this season is over, this temporary experiment will be completed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u72	Mr President! Thank you for preparing for the ministry. This is an important tool for this employment situation and, in particular, for seasonal labour. Thank you, too, for the extensive consultation of the social partners in this preparation. I thought we had new unemployment figures today. Of course, the figures are gloomy, and these tools are needed in this situation, but this doubling of the April figures is entirely due to these corona constraints, and it is quite understandable. The positive thing is that, although employment figures are gloomy, consumer and business confidence in May clearly seems to be better than the scandals. Yes, all these government measures, both business packages and these employment measures, have a clear impact on this improvement of the climate. What is positive is that in recent weeks, the consumer confidence indicator has also gone a long way better, and it is precisely through this improvement of the faith in the future that we will overcome this crisis. Well, the temporary increase in the protective part of the unemployment benefit mediation that is now under discussion will support in particular part-time work and the reception of short-term work. Why is this important when it comes to part-time work? 69 per cent of those receiving adjusted earnings-related security are part-time workers, 69 per cent, and I think this is a good specific weapon for that in particular. It is also important to update this mobility grant, from three to two hours. As such, this mobility allowance has not been a tool for what it was intended at the time, and for understandable reasons, but perhaps now this proposal can raise its profile and at least raise its profile, and it is certainly a good tool for this seasonal workforce. I believe that these tools will now support this seasonal labour force and the wider take-up of work, particularly on the side of berry farms and agriculture, but also on the other hand. All the additional tools needed to improve employment are now very important in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u73	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for this good proposal. Mr Eskelinen raised the issue of mobility grants, and the Minister himself said that the awareness of this has been rather weak. Do you, Minister, have any ideas on how to increase this awareness now, so that people can also find their daily lives and receive work on this mobility grant? We can make changes here, but how they go into practice depends, for example, on raising this awareness, and I would like to hear from the Minister what you think about it in the Ministry. As far as this proposal for an increase in the protection component itself is concerned, I think that this increase is important for the individual. I remember back in the day that when it was the protection part that went into legislation, there were many situations where, for example, part-time mail delivery weakened the person’s financial situation. Of course, it is not even a question of a person not wanting to receive that work, but simply economically not being prepared for it, and that is why it was important to have a protective portion at the time. But I think just as I do, I think there was Mr Kauma, who raised the point that, with this further increase in protection, it would certainly be necessary to examine the impact it has on people's everyday lives and the acceptance of work. Any action to increase and facilitate the take-up of work is welcome. The extent to which it is correct in this previous debate is that, in fact, according to the latest analyses, the carrot or stick would not be the crucial issue of unemployment in terms of access to employment, but primarily of support and assistance. And so here too: while we are raising the percentage of protection, it is important that the unemployed also receive the support and assistance that will enable them to find a job there to stand aside. This issue should also be linked together in the context of such an increase. But finally, I would like to ask the Minister: How does this now relate to other benefits, such as income support? Will this increased protection rate be ignored in the case of income support? Housing aid has already been mentioned here, but what about income support?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u74	Mr President! I, too, would like to praise the excellent presentation and thank Minister Pekos for bringing this to Parliament. Indeed, because of interest, this situation is acute for the unemployed and laid off. Today it was reported from Uusimaa that in this April the number of unemployed job seekers is nearly 80,000 more than one year ago, i.e. the growth is over 100 per cent, and now in April, for layoffs, more than 3400 per cent more than one year ago. And then, on the other hand, as was heard in the presentation, there are also these vacancies. What, then, is the purpose of this? I personally understand that this is precisely the aim of supporting and encouraging people who have lost their jobs or are laid off to help them find employment and improve their economic prospects for employment, i.e. more incentives for employment. And as has been said here, this is extremely important in this situation. Well, then to this protective part, which in practice means the amount of money that an unemployed person can earn without affecting unemployment allowance. It is now proposed to increase it from EUR 300 to EUR 500. I personally believe that this is a good thing, and this has been a proposal from the Left Alliance before. I have seen that this has been raised before. This will indeed improve the position of those benefiting from unemployment benefit and make it easier for them to take up work. Of course, this is a temporary withdrawal. I personally think that it could be a permanent withdrawal, that we would have a higher element of protection that we should earn, but, of course, it is a good reform on a temporary basis. Then there was this overall reform of social security, and that is indeed what we are facing here, and I hope that it will also contribute to moving in such a direction as has been described here: away from sanctions and punishment and snuggling and pitfalls of incentives in the direction of giving that help and support and encouragement — such a positive human image, to which I personally believe, at least. But as the Minister well said in his reply,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u75	Mr President! First of all, this is now, of course, a corona and is a temporary change and will remain in force until the end of October. It also tells us, of course, that this has not been done in accordance with normal preparation — there have been no consultations, but this has been brought here as a matter of urgency. And I also represent the position, of course, that the legislation that is being adopted with the interest rate cannot be valid or permanent for the time being, but must be temporary. On this urgency: I would like to say this now that we have had urgent proposals for several months, that this House and the committee work are also starting to feel this rush. It is unfortunate that the representatives feel that they do not necessarily have enough time to get to grips with these issues, which are not as simple as they are, but of course they also want to take them forward and to understand this need as a whole. That is what I would like to say, first of all, about this increase in the protective section, that this is, after all, the reason for this seasonal issue of agriculture. Of course, such a change cannot be dependent on industry, it must then apply to all the unemployed, and I think it is quite right in every way. This change is also possible for entrepreneurs, unlike that mobility grant. We have just been reminded of the fact that since then this increase in the protective part has been EUR 300. I think it was 2014, but I don't think there's ever been an increase in the protective part. It has been the same amount that was laid down at the time, and it is certainly appropriate to look at this situation in 2020 — and this is the temporary change in the question — that this increase should also be made. One wonders, of course, what impact this will have on the labour market. It should not be the case that this link between unemployment benefit and the protective part prevents full-time work. In the same way, I am also thinking about this social security reform. That job is about to get started, and thank you for letting me be a part of it. I think that, when the Committee has seven years, it should also be able to resolve the post-corona problems and, in this way, perhaps also to support the work of the government, although it is not dependent on the government but is a parliamentary committee. One thing that would be particularly important is precisely the coordination of this social security and paid employment, so that as many people as possible can get the job off the ground in this time of the corona crisis and especially after that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u76	Mr President! Thank you to the government for this supportable proposal. I am very much in favour of these amendments to the Unemployment Protection Act, and I consider it particularly necessary to increase the level of protection. Indeed, the protection component of unemployment benefit would be temporarily increased from the current EUR 300 per month to EUR 500 per month, and it is important to improve the financial security of the unemployed in part-time work or in short-term work in a situation where full-time work is not yet available. I myself am confident that raising the protective part will strengthen the incentives for work, and when this acute phase is over, I agree with the speeches here which stressed the need to collect and assess the need for a permanent increase in this protective section. I myself also wonder what Mr Vehviläinen said there, what the effects are then on incentives to take up full-time work. It is indeed also important to assess this. The fact that there have been such serious problems with the availability of seasonal labour in Finland as a result of this corona crisis shows that incentives to work are not in place in Finland. Of course, this signals that this social security reform must be carried forward with an ambitious timetable, and I hope that the government will speed it up further from the original timetable, so that we can get social security in Finland, unemployment security in a more general way, so that work is worth taking in at all times, hard work always pays off. Now that the Minister is here, I would also like to raise one serious problem of unemployment security, which has also been raised in the media. I asked you this, Minister, on Twitter too. Helsingin Sanomat told of a musician who has been supporting himself for twenty years with his own work on gigs, and he has paid ten years to become a member of the unemployment fund. All the work he's done over the last twenty years, he's done as an employee with a tax card. This musician does not have a business ID or any other form of business activity, and his earnings-related relationship has been denied on the grounds that he had stated in his application that he sometimes composes. It doesn't make any sense in this situation. I would like to ask you, Minister: should not the unemployment benefit of musicians and other performers in this regard be put in place as a matter of urgency, given that musicians and other performing artists have been very much affected by the corona crisis? It must be that if you have worked as an employee, you have paid for your unemployment fund membership and you have no business-like activity, then unemployment benefit also works.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u77	Mr President! Thank you for the debate. The debate continued to be as constructive as it was in the first half, and well in this debate, too, these social security problems and many of the problems that arose during that first part of the debate. With regard to the timetable for the Social Security Committee, Mrs Vestman is right to say that, although we have now scheduled the committee work for eight years — for two parliamentary periods, for the term of the government — this does not mean that the whole work has to be completed when something is brought out. And like this representative As the Vehviläinen well said, for example, about this coordination of social security and paid employment, it is one of the important things that I would like to see moving forward quickly from there, but, as has been said, it is parliamentary rather than mine. Mr Kauma also made a strong point in his own speech on the impact assessment of these temporary measures, and Mr Salonen also drew attention to this — and I am sure you all did. It is extremely important, and that is why we want to study these effects with particular precision, to monitor them, also from the labour market point of view, both the good and the bad, so that we can then make use of these experiences in the committee work on social security reform. It also provides concrete experience – these things have been presented in this Chamber more often, but now we can also try them temporarily. And I am sure that this income dependency on the protective part raised by Mr Kauma is also a good example of how this issue could be dealt with there. Mr Eskelinen and Mr Salonen drew attention to this mobility grant, and it is indeed very poorly known for the support given to receiving work, and I do not know how I would go about this in a concrete way, as it were, to tell people. We certainly need to work with the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and also with the Labour Administration to make this aid known. I hope that this public debate, and this small change to this aid, will also bring some recognition to this form of support, so that we can then also inform the unemployed. In reply to Mr Salonen on the matter of income support, this increase in the component does not, unfortunately, necessarily bring similar benefits to those receiving income support, and it is therefore of the utmost importance that the government is committed to reforming the income support during this period under the leadership of Minister Kiuru. And the fact that reducing dependency on income support is one of the objectives of our overall social security reform is also important. President! Finally, I will answer Mrs Vestman's question about this musician, the Helsingin Sanomat case, which I myself read. I would like to point out that this is something that I have read about. It is just as you said that if a person is a member of an unemployment fund, has paid there and does not engage in business, he should be entitled to unemployment benefit. I'll take a look at this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u79	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u80	Mr President! The new legislation contained in the EU Clean Energy Package entered into force in summer 2019. The legislative package includes, among other things, a regulation on the internal electricity market, a regulation on the EU Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators and a regulation on preparedness for risks in the electricity sector. The Internal Market Regulation for Electricity shall apply from 1 January 2020. According to the Regulation on the preparation of risks in the electricity sector, Member States have to designate the competent authority referred to in the Regulation no later than 5. OJ L 343, 14.12.2012, p. 1. The Government's proposal includes the first part of the changes to our national energy market legislation resulting from the legislation of the Clean Energy Package. The proposal proposes to amend the Act on the supervision of the electricity and natural gas markets and the Act on the Energy Agency. The national transposition measures now proposed are urgent because the obligations of the Regulation have entered into force since the beginning of the year. In autumn, the government will submit a proposal on the implementation of the new Electricity Market Directive. A key change in the Government proposal is the designation of a competent authority under the Electricity Risks Regulation. The Agency would be appointed as the competent authority. The Agency already performs the national regulatory tasks aimed at ensuring the adequacy and operational security of electricity. The regulation on the preparation of risks in the electricity sector lays down rules on cooperation between Member States in the prevention and management of electricity crises, i.e. electricity adequacy problems and major disturbances. The Regulation establishes ways of assessing risks to security of electricity supply on the basis of common European methods. The Regulation requires Member States to define regional and national electricity crisis scenarios and to draw up risk preparedness plans based on them. Risk contingency plans shall set out the measures planned to prevent, prepare and mitigate the electricity crises under the Regulation. The Regulation requires Member States to work together to prevent and manage electricity crises. Member States shall provide assistance through regional and bilateral measures for the supply of electricity to Member States experiencing an electricity crisis. Member States shall agree on the necessary technical, legal and financial arrangements for crisis situations, for example with regard to appropriate compensation for assistance. The Internal Market for Electricity Regulation lays down basic principles for a well-functioning integrated electricity market and lays down rules for cross-border exchanges in electricity and facilitates the emergence of well-functioning and open wholesale markets. Mr President! In order to ensure effective implementation of internal market rules for electricity, Member States must provide for penalties applicable to infringements of network codes and guidelines. By way of derogation from the old regulation, the provisions of the new Regulation specify precisely the points of EU legislation on which Member States have to impose sanctions in the event of infringements. Similarly, the new Electricity Market Directive has deleted provisions for which infringements were considered to be related to the obligation for Member States to impose sanctions. In this respect, it is necessary to review the provisions of Article 16 of the Electricity and Natural Gas Market Control Act in order to comply with the new EU legislation. The revision of the provisions on sanctions in the Regulation and the Directive will allow for a more targeted and partial limitation of sanctions based on EU electricity market legislation. However, this amendment is not expected to have significant practical effects, since the old legislation on penalties in force since 2013 has not been applied in Finland at all. For the rest, the amendments contained in the government proposal are legislative technical, such as the clarification of legislative references to the new EU legislation. The laws contained in the performance are intended to enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u81	Mr President! Indeed, the government’s proposal to amend electricity market legislation is largely technical. Unfortunately, this bill is incomplete in the sense that the most essential and urgent problems have been left to be resolved in the future. In particular, excessive and ever-increasing electricity transmission prices should be addressed. Over the last ten years, transfer prices have doubled on average. People's frustration with this situation is compounded by the fact that, unlike the share of electric energy, electricity transmission cannot be competitive because the electricity network is by nature a monopoly. Electricity is also a necessary commodity; here in Finland, people cannot choose not to use electricity. The increase in transmission prices is due to two factors: firstly, the construction of the electricity grid, the new weather security requirements that entered into force in 2013, and the permissible output for network companies, which has increased in recent years. Both entities — i.e. the construction of the electricity network as cost-effectively as possible and the profits of the network companies — must be addressed. We must not allow people to be cashed in with a monopoly on electricity networks, especially now in the midst of the economic crisis, when people's livelihoods and the future of businesses are at stake. It is possible to tackle unfair monopolistic output, which can actually be up to 32%, and it can be significantly reduced by introducing general principles into the law on the pricing model. Prices should reflect more accurately the actual costs of building the electricity network and the virtually non-existent risk of the electricity network business. By addressing production, it would only be possible to save more than EUR 400 million annually from the profits of network companies to the money of electricity users, i.e. all of us — that is to say, EUR 1 million every single day. Moreover, by ensuring that the construction of the electricity network is as cost-effective as possible, the study shows that more than EUR 900 million can be saved for future investments. Why is this government proposal completely ignoring these main needs for change? Why does the government not want to interfere with the excessive profits of electricity grid companies? Is this about the lobbying power of network companies or what? The Coalition Party has presented its own legislative package on how to control transfer prices. Minister Lintilä, you have justified the extension of this government bill in Kauppalehti.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u82	Mr President! Mr Vestman rightly drew attention to these electricity transmission prices, the increases of which have been quite impossible. Of course, there is also the amount of network being built, but these profits are also completely unreasonable when it comes to monopoly companies. I very much hope that the Minister and the entire government will take seriously its draft law on this subject, which has been drafted very thoroughly under the leadership of Mr Vestman. I can also say that when I come from a region in which this Caruna Oy seems — and I am also, unfortunately, their customers, like 470,000 other Finns — there is no single issue for a congressman in the Caruna region that I believe will receive more feedback than these electricity transmission prices and mistrust of this system. Of course, I know the history with which this has been achieved, but it has been so long since now that it is time to catch up with these excessive profits, which Mr Vestman well described. In our view, at least 70% of this Caruna output could be cut, and yet neither the production of electricity nor the maintenance of its system would be jeopardised, because it is practically a risk-free business, as has already been described here. Mr President! The normal message that comes from that Caruna to the electricity user is when it comes to increasing the electricity transmission price. It was at its peak of 27 %, if I remember correctly, the last increase was 3,9 %, increased by 6,5 %, and the message is always in line with ‘your electricity transmission price increases by 6,5 %,but you need to do what you need’. I would like us to send a message to Caruna from this room that ‘the increase in electricity transmission prices That would be the kind of message that would be perfectly in place and right. Indeed, this is about hundreds of millions of euros per year for ordinary Finnish consumers. It is quite clear that there is a situation here that the profits of this monopoly are unreasonable, and this money would be significant in the bag and in the consumption of consumers, which means that it is now something that we have to deal with in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u83	Mr President! Electricity supply prices cause people to be irritated and disappointed. I don't blame you at all. Transfer prices have doubled in many places over the past ten years. A lot of people cross the price of electricity transmission when they pay bills. It's perfectly understandable. In my own country, Satakunta, for example, a person living in an electrically heated small house in Kokemäki will have to excavate more than EUR 1900 per year for electricity transmission alone, and in Pori and Rauma about EUR 1400 per year. The prices of electricity transmission have risen to very high levels. These amounts are very high for people and raise the cost of living around Finland. Mr. Speaker! The electricity grid is a natural monopoly. People cannot compete with their electricity transmission, but the bill comes from everyone. It seems absurd that at a time when people are snooping with high transfer prices, publicly owned companies distribute dividends and Group grants for more than EUR 350 million a year. It is wrong to spend money on the necessary needs of people. These increases in electricity transmission prices have been driven by differentiated investments in the weather security of the electricity grid by companies over the years. The law has also encouraged companies to invest unnecessarily in the network. Investments have made it possible for companies to have a higher return and also a significant dividend distribution. This business of transfer companies is paid at the expense of a normal Finnish household. It is also out of all other consumption. In order to change this situation, the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party prepared a draft law under the leadership of Mr Vestman to reduce electricity transmission prices. Firstly, we have proposed cutting the profits of network companies, because a monopoly company should not be charging customers on the electricity network. Pricing must correspond to real costs. The over-investment of network companies must also be stopped. Land cabling is expensive in many respects. It makes sense in urban centres, but in rural areas it is rarely cost-effective. In addition, we propose a substantial cut in the transfer price ceiling from the current 15% to 5%. It is surprising why the government has not addressed these flagrant problems that have arisen in this proposal. In the past, the government has only proposed cosmetic changes to electricity market legislation, but for some reason these changes have been eliminated from this proposal. Finns will not receive any help from this proposal at their high electricity transmission prices. Mr. Speaker! I'd like to ask the minister,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u84	Mr President! It is true that, if we look at the kind of citizen's feedback that people have become over the years, the majority of them, in quantitative terms, have been linked to the electricity transmission price. The citizens are simply dissatisfied with this. The electricity transmission price has risen by an average of 100 per cent since 2008. According to a study carried out by the Union for Homes, involving 7,600 respondents, 92 per cent felt that transfer prices were too high — not just concentrated in one municipality, but in 235 municipalities. In that sense, we have been waiting at the meeting for the government to make a proposal to intervene in these matters. We had hoped that this would be the case, but unfortunately there have been some key issues to be addressed, and I will mention three of them. Firstly, the profits of network companies must be cut, and two things must be remembered here: Not only should we stare at the rate of return, but also at the capital from which it is calculated. The value of the committed capital cannot be substantially different from the balance sheet value. If the calculated value is used, the amount and value of the excess capital will be determined. So it shouldn't be used. Another issue is over-investment in areas where there is no need to do so, i.e. when you are in urban centres, it is justified to go underground, but instead in a sparsely populated area, not to mention the archipelago, customers should be able to deviate from the quality of weather security, for example. Thirdly, these annual increases in transfer prices. In 2017, the government set a rule that the increase may reach a maximum of 15 per cent, but that is also far too high. At the meeting, we propose that it should be 5%. Then we would be clearly closer to the truth. Mr President! This electricity transmission price is perceived as a tax on the part of the public, but this whole is so complex that it requires amendments to the law on a wide range of points and also an examination of what calculation methods are here and what calculation methods are in place in Europe as well. We have some deviations from these calculation methods, and hence these incorrectly used capital values in this calculation of profit. Mr President, here are the main points.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u85	Mr President! This is a very interesting debate when here the Young Representatives of the Coalition Vestman and Marttinen is actually attacking the solution of Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen's government, the rainbow government, when the majority state-owned Fortum was sold to international venture investors, Caruna, even though it is a natural monopoly where there is no alternative and pricing is therefore completely free. — There are many natural monopolies, and electricity transmission is one such thing. — Well, representatives Marttinen and Vestman must understand when they were not here at the time, but Mr Kauma and Mr Satonen could have advised their own Prime Minister at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u88	Mr President! The electricity network is indeed a natural monopoly, and I agree that the natural monopoly should be kept in public ownership. In fact, if I return to the 2019 spring elections, then the President of the Social Democrats and the President of the Centre both raised the possibility that these networks sold for private ownership could be bought back into public ownership. Now, in this situation, we understand that there is no money, up to EUR 10 billion, and in this situation we must respond and introduce new requirements in order to control electricity transmission prices. I would like to remind the government that you have a record in the government programme. You have a record that, in order to curb electricity transmission prices, conclusions are being drawn from, among other things, the cost analysis of electricity transmission, the flexibility of the electricity network and alternative ways of ensuring security of electricity supply, especially in sparsely populated areas. In January, a draft government proposal was available. It highlighted certain, albeit very inadequate, ways of curbing the increase in transfer prices. Now I wonder where this bill has gone. It would be very important to get Parliament to deal with this situation, where the future of companies is at stake. I would ask Minister Lintilä: would you be prepared to support this carefully prepared legislative package for controlling electricity transmission prices here in Parliament? It has been prepared to support the work of the government and it is possible to move the matter forward in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. This would be an important hand-out for Finnish and Finnish companies in this difficult situation. As I said, every single day, when the matter is postponed, it costs Finnish society a million euros a day. According to Professor Collan's calculations, that means EUR 45000 every hour. This is something you shouldn't delay with. And I will continue to ask the Minister whether anyone is preventing this proposal from being brought here to Parliament at the moment? It is linked to the economic crisis, it would bring relief to people and businesses, and I assume that there is broad consensus in Parliament that electricity transmission prices must finally be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u89	Mr President! In actual fact, the government's proposal is that according to the Regulation on risk preparedness in the electricity sector, Member States have to designate the competent authority referred to in the Regulation by 5 January 2020 at the latest, and the Energy Agency would then be designated as the competent authority within the meaning of the Regulation on risk preparedness. But now that colleagues have spoken and discussed this transfer pricing in more general terms, I would like to say here that Mr Kiviranta here correctly remembered that it was the storm of the day of killing, was there any mention of the storm Tapani, which then caused some sort of overreaction here on the political side — perhaps in this situation — when this land-cabulation obligation came to the electricity companies. It could be said that, in making legislation, it was not fully understood what, for example, the revenue caps on this investment could be. And one can say that yes at the moment, if you compare with other Nordic countries, for example Sweden, this legislation actually allows this kind of business to be done with transfer pricing, and, as has been said here, it is a so-called natural monopoly. In that sense, it is important that, first of all, this period of review of transfer pricing should be examined as a first step, and then, indeed, we should consider — as some of my fellow Members have done in this House — where that ceiling could be. Of course, then, it could be said that there have been unfortunate trades when foreign companies have been sold a network and then these profits have also leaked to the world. Mr President! I am sure that this legislative point in itself must be supported and taken forward, but, as a whole, to this electricity transfer pricing system, the citizens are now hoping for changes and hope that there will be rapid proposals from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u90	Then, Mr Satonen, before this matter has to be brought to an end, and the Minister will be the last.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u91	Mr President! Thank you for the floor. — — — — When we started to think about these old things, it is all right that Mr Kiviranta raised this issue. I have to be honest with you. If I start with storm Tapani, I remember it very well, because there were areas in my own municipality too, that for a week and a half the electricity didn't work, and there were farms and stuff, and the situation was pretty serious for real. But just as Mr Essayah said, there must have been an overreaction. I think that, now that we have a few years ahead of us, there are quite a few debates in this Chamber about the fact that this corona virus has led to quite an overreaction and the economic impact, the economy and the employment that will then have to be considered for a long time. But it is quite true that it certainly has been done in accordance with it and, in fact, this initiative of the Assembly specifically draws attention to the fact that this investment would be realistic and that it would not be wise to take this land-covering, for example, to all summer cottages or islands or other areas where it is expensive. Well, then this perhaps bigger question, which in itself has nothing to do with this storm Tapani, not according to my own memory, but relates to this sale of Caruna, which Fortum strongly wanted at the time. First of all, I must say that if my information is correct and my memory is on the line, then the present Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Haavisto, was the present Minister, if I understand that he was then the Minister for Ownership Steering, [Esko Kiviranta’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u92	Mr President! There was hardly any debate on the draft law itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u93	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u94	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u95	Mr President! The Government's proposal would implement the Directive amending the EU Gas Markets Directive adopted in spring 2019 to the extent that Finnish legislation needs to be amended. The purpose of the amending Directive is to extend the scope of the European Union gas market rules to gas pipelines from and to third countries. Member States will have to bring into force the legislation required by the amending directive by 24 February 2020 at the latest. The revision of the Gas Directive took place in the EU institutions between autumn 2017 and spring 2019. The amendment to the Directive was largely reduced in the preparation and public debate on the approach to the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project. The approach to the Directive also divided part of the Member State into two camps, whose views on the proposal for a directive differed strongly depending on how these Member States reacted to the Nord Stream 2 project. However, it should be noted that the proposal for a directive was of a general nature. The question was whether (a) EU gas market legislation applies to all pipelines between Member States and third countries, or whether they are all outside the scope of EU gas market legislation, and (b) whether EU gas market legislation applies only in the territory of Member States and in the territorial sea or also in the economic zone of Member States. In the negotiations on the directive, Finland consistently pursued its compromise line whereby, on the one hand, EU legislation on the gas market should be applied consistently across the EU, i.e. also to pipelines from third countries, but, on the other hand, EU legislation on the gas market cannot be applied in the economic zone of the Member States under international maritime law. The amending directive was finally adopted largely in line with the compromise line that Finland was pursuing. Mr President! The scope of the Finnish Gas Market Act 2017 has already covered the Finnish-Russian pipeline. The pipeline will be subject to Finnish and EU gas market legislation and network regulation right from the Finnish border. Similarly, Finland’s legislation on the gas market has not been applied to gas pipelines in Finland’s economic zone. Therefore, the amendment of the gas directive will only result in minor technical changes to our national legislation. In addition to the above, the change in the scope of EU gas market legislation affects Finland through the extension of the scope of the EU Gas Network Regulation to third-country pipelines, also Finland-Russia interconnectors. In addition, the amending Directive limits the possibility for Member States to conclude separate international agreements with third countries related to the regulation of the interconnector. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Act on the natural gas market and the Act on the supervision of the electricity and natural gas markets. The Natural Gas Market Act would include a definition of interconnectors between Member States, as well as between Finland and third countries, in accordance with the amending Directive. This amendment is of a regulatory nature. Provisions of the Natural Gas Market Act on the exemption of new infrastructure from certain obligations relating to the regulation of natural gas networks are proposed to be amended in accordance with the requirements of the amending Directive. The exemption procedure would be extended to new interconnectors between Finland and third countries. In addition, the conditions for granting the exemption and the rules of procedure would be supplemented. In practice, the provisions have no impact on Finland, as it is unlikely that new interconnectors to third countries would be built in Finland anymore. A provision on cooperation between regulatory authorities on the regulation of the interconnector between Finland and a third country would be added to the Electricity and Natural Gas Market Control Act. The laws are meant to enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u96	Mr President! Just as the Minister said, this is more of a question of implementing the technical amendment directive into Finnish legislation and the natural gas market law, that is to say, it is about these definitions and exemptions and then also about cooperation between regulators. Mr President! On the Government's proposal, the Minister pointed out that these proposed rules had no practical impact on natural gas undertakings or on natural gas users or on the activities of the authorities. On the basis of the available import capacity and the forecast demand for natural gas, it is unlikely that new interconnectors will be built between Finland and third countries. And, Mr President, I am sure you could ask the Minister whether this is the case, that the forecasts really do seem to indicate that no more structures of this kind are coming. And, as the Minister well described, there must have been a great amount of such political twists in the way of regulating rather technical matters. Mr President! In itself, these matters should be implemented into Finnish legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u97	Mr President! In short, Mr Essayah's question. At the moment, with this view that we have, there is no situation in which such a thing is coming from third parties. And of course everyone remembers the debate that took place at the time — you remember the situation in Denmark, how Denmark reacted, how Germany, Finland. Of course, it was evoked by the fact that Nord Stream was mentioned in second place when, in principle, the debate had already taken place in first place. I am sure that this whole distortion of the directive, which has taken place and which I am sure Mr Essayah will remember very well — as a long-term European parliamentarian, I am sure it is even better than most of us. But at the moment the situation is relatively stable and stable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u98	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 10/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u99	Mr President! Firstly, the justification for why this is being discussed here, even though it is intended to deal only with urgent, necessary proposals in addition to the interest rate: The background to this is that, in fact, this was a government proposal during the last parliamentary term, but it lapsed. At the same time, when the social and regional reform fell, these regulations were also not adopted. This proposal, which is now under discussion in this report, should have come into force as early as 1.4.2020, so we can now move forward on this matter. In other words, the aim of this proposal is to change the governance structure of Keva better in line with the changed operating environment. According to the proposal, Keva's mandate would be supervisory, but it will also decide, among other things, on the contributions of the member communities, confirm the financial statements, grant discharge to those responsible and approve the Keva budget. The role of the Board of Directors will be strengthened in relation to the delegates, and the Board of Directors would have general competence to deal with Keva's affairs. With the proposal of the Board of Directors, the number of Board members would be increased from nine to eleven. It is the responsibility of the Audit and Risk Management Committee from among the Board of Directors to monitor financial reporting and the adequacy and adequacy of internal control, internal audit and risk management. The risk assessment to be carried out as part of risk management shall be regularly prepared and updated in the event of material changes in risk. The separate Audit and Risk Management Committee supports the effective implementation of the new regulation. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it justified to modernise the organisation structures in Keva and to clarify the roles of the various levels of management. The proposed changes also allow staff to remain in the municipal pension scheme in cases where the municipality or joint municipal authority has decided to set up a cooperative to provide services. The proposals also contribute to ensuring the financial adequacy of the municipal pension system. The committee is in favour of adopting the draft law. In its opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should consider amending the provisions on the composition of the Board of Governors and the composition of the Board of Directors by appointing some members from other public sectors whose pension provision is being implemented by Mrs Keva. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes that preparations are currently under way for the integration of private sector pension systems and the municipal pension system in the Government Programme of Prime Minister Marin. The Committee notes that in assessing the need for reform of pension systems, it is also appropriate to consider the development needs of the legislation on Spring as a whole. Paragraph 9(5) of the draft law proposes that the Board of Directors of Keva may delegate its powers to the Executive Director and other officials or employees of Keva. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy states in its opinion that matters belonging to the government may involve delegation needs. However, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stated that the provision was written in such a way as to be open to the public that no government function was excluded from its scope. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore proposes, on the basis of the report it has received, that the open delegation rule be abolished in this context. However, the committee proposes that the current possibility for the government to retain its decision-making powers on the allocation of funds is retained in Article 21(2). The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-27-ps-81.u100	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for your presentation. Indeed, this was, could you say, the legislation that has not been adopted since the recent collapse of the war, but which must be taken forward? This is mainly a proposal for transparency and clarity in the administration. Mr President! Here we are in the process of increasing the number of members of the Board from 9 to 11 and that, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, already had views on what types of experts should then be taken into account in this government. I think it is important that this is dealt with specifically from the point of view of pension law and that these experts are those who have expertise, above all, in matters relating to pensions and their investment horizons. It is the expertise needed in the government, and that side will be secured. Mr President! As such, in this unanimous government proposal and in the report on it, there is no comment to be made, and indeed, for the above reasons, the matter must be brought forward.
