ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u2	Mr President! The Child Welfare Act changed at the beginning of this year so that the upper age limit for child welfare after-care was raised to 25 years. The proposed amendment to the Act on Integration is intended to place young people in situations similar to each other but subject to different laws on an equal footing. For this reason, the Government is proposing to amend the Act on the Promotion of Integration so that young people who have come to Finland as asylum seekers without a guardian can be eligible for support instead of 20 years of age until they reach the age of 25. The change concerns young people who have received a residence permit, not asylum seekers. From the customer group’s point of view, the reasons for the change are the same as for the corresponding amendment to the Child Welfare Act. After-care customers have also been found to need support after their 21st birthday. Those who are unaccompanied as minors are a particularly vulnerable group and their well-being is seriously affected by being separated from the family. Recovery requires safe conditions and stability. The long-term benefits of after-care are high. A small additional support in years of critical integration and independence will pay for itself when a young person learns how to cope. Although this is a vulnerable group, many young people also have strengths and, thanks to good support, learn the language and study the profession. Municipalities are responsible for organising aftercare services as a minor for young people who have arrived without a guardian. It is proposed to amend the Act on the Promotion of Integration to compensate the municipality for the costs of organising services until the young person reaches the age of 25. The right to after-care under the Act of Integration is not subjective, but municipalities provide support where necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u5	Mr President! This government proposal is, in itself, a logical extension to the fact that on the Child Welfare Act we decided to raise the age limit of that aftercare from 21 to 25 years of age. Of course, in this context it should be noted that these children who have come to the country as minors are not always necessarily the subject of child protection measures, and so this government proposal then extends these measures to those young people who are indeed among those who come to Finland as minors and who are on the side of integration legislation here. Mr President! It is, of course, right that the municipalities should then be compensated for these costs, and it is good, of course, to ensure that the integration of these young people and their attachment to Finnish society take place. But in this context I hope that the committee will in some way also ignore this so-called problem of anchor children, when it is suspected that it may still occur in the case of these children and young people who have come into the country as minors. We also have judicial decisions that take into account the fact that the motive for sending a child may have been the desire for family reunification later. I hope that, when the committee goes through this matter, this situation of anchor children will also be addressed. As such, this legislation is a logical extension of this extension of the age limit for child protection legislation, but when it comes to children who come into the country as minors and who come without a quota of refugees, it is worth paying attention to this, because it is not in anyone's interest to use children to try to bring about family reunification later on and then bring family members into the country. We also have cases in the Finnish judicial system from the 21st century in which, in this type of situation, the judiciary has had to take a stand on this issue, and I recall that there was a judicial decision of this kind which stated that this false motive might not even have been the basis for the fact that this family reunification could not have been done, even though this wrong motive could be demonstrated. Mr President! This government proposal you have has a logical extension to that increase in the age limit of the Child Welfare Act, and I remember that I was also in favour of it and taking it forward. I hope that the committee will also do a good and thorough job in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u6	Mr President! There is a proposal which wants so-called unaccompanied minors, i.e. persons under the age of 18 or as such, to apply for asylum to the same services as the after-care customers of child protection once they have received a residence permit. So, as was pointed out here, this age limit for aftercare was raised to 25 at the beginning of the year. As I mentioned yesterday in connection with the amendment of the Aliens Act, the government is bringing to Parliament packages that facilitate immigration and increase its costs. The present proposal is not even remotely related to fields or food supply, so there is no justification for it by means of a corona or the crisis it causes. This project also started to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. Immigrants’ new support — which is, of course, supported by adult social work in the past, but now more comprehensively as after-care clients — includes support for housing, education, social and mental functional capacity, health care and subsistence, i.e. in practice things from the gym card to the apartment, from one's own sponsor to any supported holidays. The details are not clear from this proposal, but we will try to clarify them again in committee. There are so many of them among those who came from 15 to 17 alone that it is estimated that the number of persons covered by the law is already around 2,000. There is much more coming from Greece. According to the Finnish Immigration Service, about 70 per cent of asylum seekers who report themselves as minors give false information about their age. According to the proposal, this project will increase equality and start integration. As long as not all disadvantaged young people in Finland receive such services, it is not, of course, a question of equality. Moreover, it is a rather wonderful idea that immigrant men — mainly men — are in such a patronising state until they are 25 years old that they need such aid packages. This and the problems of integration in all Western countries strongly signal that humanitarian immigration is neither sensible nor sustainable. Mr President! According to the draft law, the State will pay all the costs incurred by municipalities in raising the age limit. This creates a perverse incentive for the municipality to accept humanitarian immigrants. At the end of this period, a few amounts of money will be collected from the registration file as a reminder. The average life-cycle impact on Finland’s public finances of arrivals from Iraq and Somalia between the ages of 20 and 24, depending on whether the impact of children is taken into account, is between EUR 690000 and EUR 1340000, i.e. per person arrived. The second generation representatives from these countries,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u7	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Act on the Promotion of Integration for refugees who have come alone as minors or for asylum seekers who have already been granted a residence permit. The current age limit of 21 years for support measures such as housing support services and other activities comparable to those of child protection would be raised to 25 years. The Government’s proposal also suggests that the additional costs incurred by the municipalities should be reimbursed by the State. In any case, the payment is made by a Finnish taxpayer who is again subject to a reduction in his own income. This proposal has nothing to do with the interest rate, but nevertheless the government has seen the need to bring this Parliament to the table. Why? So the ideological policy of the government continues under the guise of the corona. I think it is noteworthy that in recent years the number of clients in child protection has increased steadily throughout the country without even including asylum seekers or refugees. There is enormous room for improvement in the quality and resources of child protection. While the government increases its responsibilities in the EU’s gift and support packages by billions, several companies have an acute cash crisis due to interest rate restrictions, Finnish people have been laid off and laid off, and the nausea of Finnish young people is increasing. Such expansions of immigrant services could not be allowed. Yet there are millions of euros for the green left government's favorite child, for poor immigration, even with this proposal. This is the moment again when we have to remind ourselves of the importance of confrontation. The money that is directed to this too would be much more impressive, for example, in child welfare. When a person who comes from Africa or the Middle East as an asylum seeker does not integrate into Finland by the age of 21, no wonders will happen in the next four years, no matter how much support measures are being increased. To date, the government parties have not understood the reluctance of the newcomers to integrate from which these problems arise. Mr President! As shown by the Government’s proposal, the price of these services varies between thousands of euros per locality and service provider. In Helsinki, for example, the cost is less than EUR 3000 per person per year, while in Pirkanmaa the amount rises to more than EUR 5000. The same phenomenon has been seen in the price range of reception services, which is very variable. In what way does the government intend to control the cost, or is there any will to do so? And how will the effectiveness of the expansion of these services be assessed? This is nothing more than ideological activity, direct job protection and business creation on the taxpayers' side.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u8	Mr President! As Mr Purra said, around 70% of asylum seekers who have reported themselves under the age of minors give false information about their age, so it is clear that even in this case, even in the case of a change of law, the Finnish network of support measures is being used more and more sadly, so that the funds are lost to those who really need them. The expansion of support measures is always a factor of attraction and attraction. Finnish taxpayers hardly want to pay for this in these already difficult times.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u9	Mr President! The Government has brought a proposal to Parliament to change the Act on the Promotion of Integration into law. The question now arises to me in this situation of interest rates, which is why this proposal was to be brought at this stage when I understand that this is not an urgent proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u12	Mr President! As a minor, an asylum seeker who comes to Finland without a guardian can currently be provided with after-care until he or she reaches the age of 21. At this point, it is now proposed to raise the age limit for young people who have been granted a residence permit to 25 years. This corresponding change in child welfare was already implemented at the beginning of this year. In practice, therefore, young people who have received a residence permit will be placed on an equal footing with the support measures mentioned by Mr Koponen. Thus, some 200 young people a year would be affected by a change in the law. However, it would not be applied retroactively. The costs of housing and support for unaccompanied residents are reimbursed by the State. The costs of after-care are rather difficult to estimate accurately, but we know that one young person who is excluded is very expensive for society. The National Audit Office has estimated that one young person who is excluded will incur more than EUR 1 million of government expenditure in the form of lost national income and increased costs. On the other hand, THL estimates that those who rely on primary school alone will incur an additional cost of up to €370000 in their lifetime for the public administration compared to those who have received training. In this respect, we are talking about a very big social issue and investments. President! The increase in the age limit of aftercare will allow young people who come to Finland without a guardian to integrate, train and find employment. So there will be more years to look after young people’s survival, whether they are native Finns or have received a residence permit. The change represents an increase in the costs of after-care reimbursed by the State, but after after-care brings significant cost savings to society. Better employment and less need for support after the end of post-care is socially reasonable, economically sustainable and more humane at individual level. It's not about the more complicated logic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u13	Mr President! Social security for persons who have received a residence permit in Finland will be improved. The after-care age would increase from 21 to 25 years now. That means that government expenditure will rise — 2.6 million next year, has been estimated. What if there's a double number of people, or what if there's a triple number? This could mean a lot. This can also be an attraction that can attract asylum seekers or even put a child here in advance in the hope of family reunification. Now that the corona crisis is on — that is, the crisis is on — there are risks here too. Would it not now be more time for the government to focus on this corona crisis and the treatment of corona problems than immigration? And what about this child welfare service in Finland? I think that money would be very much needed there too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u14	Mr President! According to the Government's proposal, raising the age limit for aftercare would create the permanence of young people's daily lives and enable a familiar postcare worker to motivate and support young people in integration and problem handling. As you follow the corridors of shopping centers, you can see that quite well you have already settled without aftercare. The increase in the age limit for after-care is thought to reduce the risk of exclusion of minors and improve their chances of integration, training and employment. This, in turn, is hoped to bring cost savings to society. The representative of the Finns Party, Purra, said a moment ago what the real reality is, how to settle in and bring cost savings in the future. In many ways, the Korona crisis has had a negative impact on the lives of Finnish children and young people and their belief in security. In addition to psychosocial problems, they will also face economic problems and challenges in the future when they face interest rate debts. The estimated cost of the change is EUR 2.6 million in 2021 and EUR 5 million in 2022 to 2024. Due to the interest crisis, the economy of the state and municipalities is in a very weak situation and financial resources should be released to ensure that Finland and Finns are taken care of. Koronapandem inevitably increases the need for child protection and other psychosocial services, and therefore limited resources should be allocated primarily to improving the well-being of Finnish children and young people and not focus on increasing benefits and support for foreigners. Mr President! The cost of after-care is borne by the municipality that has borne the costs of foster care — this is usually the case when it comes to Finns, but now when it comes to foreigners, there is already money. The interest-rate crisis chafes municipalities a lot, and the state is not going to compensate them in full, but here, when we talk about foreigners, we are going to come up against them in full.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u15	Mr President! Finland is in debt at a fast pace. The interest-rate crisis is an external factor for which the government cannot be criticised, but in such a situation public money must be used with particular responsibility. When the debt burden is piled up on our children and when the government flashes new tax increases to tempt Finnish work and try, it cannot be that the sorrowless shoveling of money into ideological projects is continuing and even accelerating. Immigration is a glaring example of this. It is obvious that the Centre and the Social Democrats have handed the immigration issues over to the Greens, for whom this is, of course, a good fit. Throughout the entire parliamentary term, Parliament has received a series of proposals to facilitate the exploitation of the asylum system and thus increase costs and harm the interests of Finland. The possibilities for appeal have been improved, new incentives have been created for those who have received a negative asylum decision to stay in the country and so on. Finland has decided to transfer more asylum seekers from the Greek camps than any other EU country. In the run-up to the corona crisis, the Minister of the Interior began to rebel against the EU and questioned the right of Greece to defend itself and the rest of Europe from the Turkish-based invasion of migrants. So the trend is clear, and this performance is a natural part of it. Services for minors will be extended to adult people. It comes to mind in the autumn of 2015, when men with beards said they were 17 years old and Finnish decision-makers nodded as fool-looking. It is precisely these proposals that give rise to a cynical attitude towards the whole concept of ‘minor asylum seeker’. If we do not want to hear the words ‘beard children, ’we I find it particularly reprehensible that such proposals should be brought to Parliament in a situation where Parliament is not functioning normally. I understand there is a consensus that only proposals relating to the crisis or otherwise urgent are being brought here. In what way is this a busy or corona-related performance?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u16	Mr President! Some of the refugees and asylum seekers arriving in Finland are unaccompanied minors: children and young people who are in danger of life in their home country, children and young people who either do not have parents or who have fled their home country with their parents, but have not reached their destination, or who have had to flee without their family. Currently, these young people who have been granted a residence permit in Finland may remain in after-care until they reach the age of 21. This amendment proposes an increase in the age limit for post-care care for these young people to 25 years. In addition, the proposal proposes that the municipality be reimbursed for the costs incurred by the municipality for the placement of an unaccompanied minor in a family group home or other unit of residence, as well as for family care, housing support services and other measures comparable to those of child welfare, until the age of 25. Today, too, this age limit is 21 years. The amendment applies to young people under 21 years of age at the time of its entry into force, but municipalities, if they wish to provide these services retrospectively, would also be able to offer these services to young people between 21 and 24 years of age when the law came into force. Mr President! The age limit for the aftercare of Finnish young people was raised from the beginning of this year to 25 years. It is fair that the legislation should be harmonised so that all young adults who need such support are brought into the same range of services. This will strengthen the equality of young people. It is not a subjective right, but help is provided as necessary. The reform of the law is important because children and young people who come to Finland alone as refugees or seek asylum are in a very vulnerable position and are at risk of marginalisation. Many of them have a very traumatic background. Many people have not received much education in their home country and start completing comprehensive school in Finland, for example. It takes time to study Finnish too. The four-year extension of the right to post-care services promotes integration, reduces the need for further support and contributes to the integration of these young people into society. These support measures will help prevent exclusion. The proportion of those in need of support is small and decreasing with age, so this bill is also a very cost-effective way of supporting young people in need. Municipalities are already paying for these services, and now we are going to move to a practice in which the state pays for the costs. This will therefore also help to ease the financial situation of municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u17	Mr President! The Minister stopped by the Chamber and immediately left, apparently not interested in the opinion of the MPs on this issue. I don't blame you. There is once again a green ideology here, as we have now seen several times in the midst of this crisis, but I am talking a little about Finnish children. I put a little up here: There are currently about 20,000 children in Finland located outside the home. Approximately 90% of child welfare units are maintained by private companies. It is a million-dollar business where, unfortunately, the child is often left largely in the role of a dairy cow, the production of money in the custody business, the state and local authorities acting in complete absolute ambiguities, in my view, without listening to and taking into account the child and especially the family. This is an unfortunate development. The human resources of child welfare are limited, especially in post-care. Many aftercare youths have complained that the staff is changing frequently and that this is not the reason why a familiar and safe connection with an adult is born, which, according to the study, is the most important thing in the everyday life of an independent young person, a permanent, safe adult. Social services may have dozens, if not hundreds, of young people as customers. That is why many are left without the most important mental support and guidance. All right, let's get back to green ideology. Regardless of all this, during this crisis, this government brings and envisages the same right for asylum seekers, 17-year-old bearded children, to raise the age limit for aftercare to 25 years, although it is known that it is these measures that create a great attraction and a temptation to become an immigrant in the interests of Finnish social security, i.e. free money and free service.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u18	This is where the debate and the proceedings are suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u19	We will now resume the debate on item 2 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u20	Mr President! We will therefore come back to what we discussed earlier at the beginning of today's sitting. This is a government proposal concerning the law on the promotion of integration. Mr President! The child must always be seen primarily as a child, regardless of the quality of the residence permit or the stage of the permit process. Currently, a minor asylum seeker already has the same social and health services as a resident of a municipality, including the necessary child protection services, and also has the right to attend school and study care. The cost of after-care for the municipalities of young people who have received a residence permit under the current law will be reimbursed by the State until the young person reaches the age of 21, but the government in this proposal is now increasing the age limit until the immigrant youth reaches the age of 25. During the previous day's debate, Mr Essayah mentioned, among other things, the so-called "anchovy challenge". Anchor child is referred to as a minor asylum seeker who has applied to the West, who acts as an anchor for the rest of the family to arrive in the country of destination. This practice is due to the fact that the asylum process works differently for children than for adults. In practice, a minor asylum seeker arriving in Finland is granted a residence permit almost without exception and the minor is not returned to his or her country of origin unless the parent or other guardian is known. Mr President! Article 36(2) of the Finnish Aliens Act provides for the effects of circumventing the rules of entry on family reunification. According to the law, ‘residence permits may not be granted if there are grounds for suspecting In this respect, the consequences of the Government proposal are related to the increase in the number of anchor children arriving in Finland in the future. Right now, those seeking international protection arrive in our country at the rate of nearly 5,000 people a year. Of them, about 1,300 are underage, or more than a quarter, of which, according to some estimates, about half are single-born anchor children. I hope that the Administrative Committee will take note of:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u21	Mr President! The time for interest will have many consequences, one of which is, of course, the fact that the borders have been very peaceful. The number of asylum seekers has fallen quite dramatically as a result of the corona and the policy measures taken in its wake. What, of course, is there now, of course, a few of the camp in Al-Holi, either independently or in a helpful way — in this respect we are still waiting for more detailed information — to be able to get to Finland, but these, of course, in the search for asylum are quite smaller factors in immigration policy, of course, in terms of security, even more significant. As far as this bill is concerned, it has generally been the spirit of the game, because of the interest rate, that the government has only brought current legislative proposals to Parliament in connection with this acute crisis, and that is why, of course, it is perhaps a little unusual — and hopefully at some point we will have more clarity — on what grounds the present proposal would be such that it would be as if it were a crisis, or possibly otherwise urgent, that it should be brought here at this stage. And this does not become less problematic because, when it comes to minors, as has been said in previous speeches here, there has not really been a significant proportion of minors in the post-portrait. Unfortunately, the hopes that significant achievements in the field of integration can be achieved by means of legislation have proved to be somewhat over-measured along the way. Indeed, the extent of migration at all and, on the other hand, the countries, the cultures in which people eventually enter the country, will have a much more central impact on how the arrivals eventually integrate than any legislative proposal. If the numbers remain reasonable and the social pressure to integrate into the new society remains high enough, then integration will also take place, but if the numbers of migrants and the cultural distance from the host society remain very high, then no number of legislative integration measures can guarantee integration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u22	Mr President! After all, as many speakers have heard today, this government proposal is based on the fact that the Child Welfare Act was amended from the beginning of this year, so that the upper age of aftercare was raised from 21 to 25 years of age. In the same way, the proposed legislative amendment aims to raise the age limit for measures to promote and support the integration of young people who come to Finland without a guardian as minor asylum seekers from 21 to 25 years. The aim is therefore to place young people in situations similar to each other but subject to different laws on an equal footing with each other. Therefore, the draft law is also relevant to the fundamental right, equality, laid down in Article 6 of the Constitution. It is also proposed to amend the law so as to compensate the municipality for the cost of the measures until the young person reaches the age of 25. Just as young people in child welfare after-care are also at risk of being excluded from after-care measures in accordance with the Act on Integration. Therefore, raising the age limit for aftercare for both groups is justified. It is estimated that between 30% and 40% of young people would benefit greatly from continuing aftercare until 25 years of age. If necessary, they would receive support — and I would stress here the word ‘if necessary’,this is not an equal rightforall citizensand automation,such as many ofthe contributions which have enabled them to obtain suchunderstanding — if necessary,they would support housing, financial management, training,social and mentalcapacity,healthcareand income. The aim is to support young people in their own affairs, and in time the need for support will be reduced. In this context, I would also like to emphasise individuality. As a social worker, I am confident that the assessment will be carried out reliably in social work. The amount of support is not, as I said before, any automation. It may be some visits to social workers, support for something where a young person needs help, whether in connection with studies or in relation to health care, but in such a way that this support is available. I myself think that support for early integration will help us to survive later in our society, and I believe that it is our wish. We cannot afford any new excluded, no matter what the background. For example, Mr Peltokangas also raised the issue of child protection, too many customers per social worker and so on. I very much agree with that. Fortunately, this matter has also been identified in the Government Programme and the number of customers will be reduced. I don't even know how many people say "thank you" to child Many times it is seen as evil and a failure, but I would like to stress that quite a few children and adults are thanking child welfare for having, in time, been helped when they needed it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u23	Mr President! Ensuring the rights and well-being of children and young people is one of the most important tasks of society. Now, during the corona crisis, the need for aid has increased further and we must ensure adequate support for all those who need it. I see that this law is therefore very timely. In addition to safeguarding the well-being and rights of children and young people, equality of people must be at the heart of the legislation. This is also required by the Finnish Constitution. The proposal before us is that an unaccompanied child or young person who has been granted a residence permit after applying for international protection in Finland as a minor or who has been admitted to Finland under a refugee quota may be covered by the support measures instead of the current age limit of 21 years until the age of 25, like other young people. This is therefore a continuum for an earlier government proposal which raised the age limit for child welfare after-care to 25 years of age. Last season, from the opposition, a bill was put forward by the Greens' representative, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, so a big thank you also to him and to all those who contributed. From the perspective of children's and young people's rights, raising the age limit for aftercare is an important step. Child welfare organisations and experts in the field have stressed on several occasions that many young people have reached the age of 21 at the end of their marginalized aftercare. I do not believe that asylum seekers who have come alone are in any way exceptional in this regard. A challenging situation for many young people is moving to live alone. Family group homes are currently allowed up to the age of 18, and flexibility is needed. It is important that support is available in such a joint phase, regardless of the age of the young person, when there is no other support network. Even children and young people with good starting points are not always ready to move in and become independent when they are of age. It is unfair to expect it from young people who have arrived alone. Raising aftercare up to the age of 25 is one way of reducing the social exclusion of young people. This would provide young people with support and assistance from a social worker in aftercare for several additional years. On the one hand, extending and strengthening aftercare are also preventive measures to ensure that the problems of young people, both humanly and economically, do not grow too great for society or for the individual. Permanent and longer support helps in completing studies, integration and employment. To Mr Rydman — he considered these conditions for integration — it must be said that the attitude of the host country is an absolutely essential factor here. Even second generation immigrants with learning outcomes
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u24	Mr President! This proposal to extend the special treatment of asylum seekers, minors, is inconceivable in two ways. First of all, it is the corona time and Parliament is operating under exceptional circumstances. Now we are bringing in a proposal of this kind which has absolutely nothing to do with the corona crisis. Parliament's exceptional measures are based on gentlemen's agreements, but now the government does not seem to comply with these gentlemen's agreements, and I hope that the opposition will continue to act with the same responsibility as it has been in the administration of this corona crisis in Parliament until now. The government certainly does not deserve points for bringing such proposals here. Then, in substance, this proposal is even more incomprehensible. When, in itself, there is no basis even for special treatment extending up to the age of 21 — the 18-year-old is of age and that is clear — what can be the point of raising this limit now to 25 years? Even the government's proposal makes little sense to justify this. It must also be borne in mind that a very large proportion of these asylum seekers who came into the country as minors — or registered as such — have actually not been minors when they entered the country. This is a well-known fact. I believe that this is a question of cynical policy by the Greens and others who drive massive immigration and deliberately harming our country's affairs by increasing the attractiveness of humanitarian immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u25	Mr President! Indeed, these statements have supported this increase in the age limit for after-care. After all, when I was Minister of the Interior, we had some of these things coming alone, and I have to admit that I have been to the municipalities where there are these people who came alone, that it was quite challenging to get them units that correspond to their needs, and it is not an easy thing to come here. The second point is, of course, what Mr Östman has pointed out here that, if there is such an anchor child mindset, it is certainly not to be welcomed. But then there are a lot of these orphan children, who came in their day when there were many tens of thousands, so we have to take into account how many of these orphan children came in, which are much more difficult to integrate than the one who comes with the family. I can't take a stand on this in that way, except to tell you from the law itself that... I mean, of course I can take its position that after-care is very important then, and it is important that it is integrated and integrated into this society and has long-term effects. And this legislation emphasises precisely that it is learning these Finnish rules and then taking responsibility for its own actions. Then, of course, there are many such traumatized children that for a very long time that support, including mental health support, is needed. This integration law does not guarantee any subjective right to support, but must always be assessed by the municipality, and we have Finnish child welfare authorities trained in assessing this type of need. Perhaps the main concern I have here is about the cost that the municipalities that then do this aftercare, aftercare, will then actually be reimbursed, because we have so many types of need for these who came alone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u26	Mr President! We must remember that asylum seekers do not come from our neighbourhood at all, but from countries that are geographically quite remote. The minor asylum seeker or the person who comes to Finland’s borders is hardly self-involved, but it is quite a long trip in the background, and there must be some way that someone has planned and arranged the trip. If it is a genuinely minor child, why is that child so far away when the ports of refuge would certainly have been even closer to being available? It may be that, then, often the motive behind it is finally such an anchor child thinking, in which the child is sent first to knock on the door, and then, at a later stage, the whole family comes. In my view, a family that sends a child on such a journey does not act in a very responsible way, but in fact puts the child in a danger that does call into question the responsibility of that family at all with regard to such a child. On the other hand, if we are dealing with an adult person who merely appears as a minor and thus exploits our system, then we are faced with another type of serious issue. As far as integration is concerned, in general, a trained, multilingual person in practice adapts almost anywhere in the world and is able to take his place there. Then again, if it is an uneducated and languageless person, such a person is fairly well integrated if the cultural distance between the region of origin and the host region is close enough. If, on the other hand, there is an uneducated and languageless cultural difference between the country of origin and the host country, then, unfortunately, the prospect of integration is very weak and particularly weak if a significant number of immigrants enter the region for a short period of time. Then again, with regard to what Mr Hopsu has pointed out here, that an important problem would be the attitudes and the like, and indeed I see integration as a process that should start from the fact that the immigrant somehow becomes part of the new society to which he has moved and adapts to it, and not from the way that the host society bends to acting under the conditions of the migrant.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u27	Mr President! This amendment to the Act on Integration has been the subject of quite a lively debate today. Representative Mäkelä used the term ‘incomprehensible’ and ‘incomprehensible’. After listening to his speech, I was left with a feeling of incomprehensible speech. I didn't quite catch up with all that thinking. In this respect, Mrs Viljanen and Mr Hopsu, in an excellent way, described the issue of equality as being the subject of this similar amendment in the Child Welfare Act, the increase in the age limit to 25 years, and now it is for those covered by the Integration Act. Above all, of course, orphan children are at issue in this case: they are going through the same process. In this respect, therefore, equality is at stake. Secondly, as has already been pointed out in previous speeches, this is not a subjective right. This does not automatically fall, but the needs test is behind it, so that the situation of each individual is assessed. No one gets this automatically. There are many issues that need to be considered here and, of course, immigration, the asylum process and others can be assessed, but Mr Purra, in his previous speech here, pointed out the fact that this now relates to these problems of integration of immigrants, he referred to it, in all the Western countries, and said that this is only being taken into the worse corner, and the same representative. Mäkelä brought it up, too. In my view, this amendment of the law specifically seeks to help in this situation — it is precisely to help solve the problems of integration which are genuine phenomena in society. It is difficult to adapt there, and above all it is difficult to adapt to these orphan children. Not only are they in the most vulnerable position, but if you look at the misdemeanours, the problems that have come up against them, it is precisely these young people who do not have their own social network. When you come as a family, it always has that social environment to support and guide in another way and it is a better environment for growth. The orphans have a much more difficult situation. And when we have talked about the costs, whether we can afford this and so on, that is all, as the Minister said earlier, preventive action and this will genuinely pay for itself. It will genuinely pay for itself because we can help these young people who are in a foreign culture, a new culture who are trying to adapt to that system. It's a lot of trouble. If we genuinely meet up to this, this will bring great savings for society in the future. In that sense, this will improve the social climate in us, the social networks will improve, and in this respect it will even make economic sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u28	Mr President! To this speech by Mr Kiljunen that, when the social networks are completed, it will create better conditions for integration: It is not really the whole truth, because it is precisely in a case where migrants come in large groups, especially if it takes place in very short-term terms, as a significant risk, which in fact often has been realised all over Western Europe, that this group of migrants is in fact able to build a new life in a new society largely based on its old, once-in-a-lifetime community, and it is starting to operate within its new society, in practice, as an explicit part of its previous reference group, in which the integration process is actually half-way or completely unrealised. Of course, this will be repeated in the next generation of immigrants, i.e. if it has been the case that contacts with the native population have remained very limited, but then we have lived the life of some kind of parallel society in our own ethnic cultural reference group, which may have come significantly within the same short period of time. Not in itself, it is quite justifiable that there are different kinds of integration services that aim to facilitate and help the services and integration of people at risk in particular. Whether this particular proposal is something that supports it can certainly be discussed, and I believe that, for example, in the Committee on Administrative Affairs, the matter will be dealt with very carefully. But in general terms, as far as integration conditions are concerned, it is far more crucial than any individual social policy measure or legislative project that the overall volume of migration is kept under adequate control, especially as regards migrant groups that come from a low level of education and a much distant culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u29	Mr President! Perhaps we need to continue this debate a little bit with regard to what is meant by the inclusion of a social network when people move. That means that when international studies have been carried out — a lot of them have been carried out on the phenomenon of immigration — and when these difficulties have been identified with regard to adaptation, integration, which is at worst reflected even in crime statistics, which have been referred to here several times, then it is clearly seen when we look at the background of these statistics more precisely, that people who are lonely and separated are not at any level integrated into society and, the most essential aspect, lack social control are those who are then guilty of difficult behaviour in society. In that sense — if you think that family structures are being supported and social control is also involved — you can well say that then young people who lack this support in that new society will then be affected by its lack of it, and in this respect this predictability — we are trying to help integration into this society in every way — is in order. This is a particularly vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u30	Mr President! The total volume of asylum seekers was raised here, and it must be said that it has not only been due to the interest rate situation, but has already much earlier fallen significantly from the large volumes of 2015, and it seems that we have stayed for this whole asylum debate from the points of view that arrived at that time. Then here was the question of this kind of anchor child phenomenon, and one of the solutions for how to get whole families to come, is that it would be possible to obtain a humanitarian visa, so that it would be possible for a family that needs to leave the crisis area to move in a unified way. Many cases are also one that has lost contact with its family during its escape. I wish there was support for this too. In other words, this kind of cases is that after years, another European country will be found, among other things, with the help of the search work carried out by the Red Cross, eventually that family. What is important, however, is that if the child is an orphan or comes alone, that support is available here in Finland. This integration is particularly helped by the fact that there is a person accompanying it — what this bill now makes possible until the age of 25 — to advise, familiarise and teach what this Finland is like, how to work here, how to work, how to complete your studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u31	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Constitutional Committee must give its opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u33	Mr President! Thank you very much, Mr Lehto, for the floor. I'm glad to see we're on the same page. This government proposal relates to the implementation of the amending directive on posted workers of the European Parliament and the Council, as he said. It is very important for equality that the proposed changes propose equal treatment of posted workers in terms of remuneration and working conditions with Finnish workers. This is also the key to ensuring that we do not increase two labour markets in Finland, but rather prevent them from being created. These changes would also promote fair competition between foreign and domestic companies. The working conditions of posted workers are still determined by law and general collective agreements, which is the basis for equality in working life as a whole. The proposed amendments would specify the wage rules applicable to posted workers by providing for a minimum wage instead of a minimum wage. This supports the broad interpretation of the concept of pay required by the Directive. Wage equality and transparency of wages are worth pursuing so that no one gets exploited or discriminated against in their work. The proposals have taken into account the Finnish collective bargaining system, while at the same time promoting equal treatment of foreign companies with Finnish companies within the limits permitted by the amending directive, when they organise themselves in Finland or are linked to collective agreements between national social partners. This change would also apply to subcontracting situations and intra-group transfers. I, too, salute this with joy and warmth. The quality requirements for accommodation conditions would continue to apply to posted workers, and thus the requirements of the Health Protection Act and collective agreements on accommodation conditions would also apply to this category. This could address the shortcomings in the accommodation conditions of posted workers, as Mrs Lehto has said here, and I would argue that each of us certainly agree that no one — that is, nobody — should sleep in a barracks with rats. It is regrettable that Minister Haatainen is not here, but the government negotiations are government negotiations, and that is what happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u34	Mr President! I also support this legislative proposal. At this time in the corona, when the work of the committees also works a little exceptionally, this has already been the case in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities and has been the subject of an expert consultation, and we have thus had access to these expert opinions. In addition to construction workers, the opinion of construction employers and Finnish Entrepreneurs is positive for this bill, and also for the inclusion of this safeguard provision, the so-called Ordre public practice. To put it this way, as the previous speakers have already said, it means that the competitive position will be equal, if you think of the construction work, which, as I think has been mentioned here, mainly consists of two thirds of all posted workers. When construction is concentrated on these major growth centres, in particular, this need for labour, as it were, coming from outside their own territory, for example, to the capital region, Tampere and some other growth centres, and it is of course essential that when a Finnish provider can import from Ostrobothnia or Pirkanmaa or Satakunta or Savo or from any other workers, for example, to Helsinki construction sites, and they have their own collective agreement provisions on daily allowances and other systems, then it would be unfair competition, as the statements well state, if such provisions were not binding on the person who brings labour here from Romania or Bulgaria. The coalition does not in itself oppose the foreign labour force, but we consider it necessary, for example, in the construction sector, but we have not now and have never supported the introduction of foreign labour to trample domestic working conditions. That's not the point. That is why the system must be balanced. Now, especially in this employment situation, where we are now, it is very likely that, when we inevitably go towards the recession, in some parts of Finland, construction work will be very limited in the future but probably in the capital region, in some other growth centres and also in certain resorts, and then it is important that the incentive works in that it is worth going to work from within Finland, and thus employment will be maintained. Then, in addition to what domestic labour is simply not enough, there are fair rules of play for foreign labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u35	Mr President! I agree with these previous praisers on these issues. This is a good change, especially with regard to these foreign workers, and in that way will lead to an equal competitive situation and improve the chances for Finnish companies to be in this construction market. I went to talk about this at the Construction Union this morning, and there came such surprising and alarming stories about, for example, subcontracting chains, how poorly they have been controlled and that they do not work at a sufficient level. In relation to this, we also need sufficient control resources to act on working conditions and accommodation in such a way that they are decent, good and high-quality and that daily allowances are properly paid. There must be more resources for this. There were even examples that there might be Uzbek workers, builders, in the same barracks, ten staying in small cramped spaces. I saw it in the corona, and if anyone pops it up there, no one's watching where it's going. They just go around and work there, and in a way there is a risk that the spread of this disease will go on again. As such, this whole bill is a good one, but I am most concerned about that supervision. We also need to invest in this monitoring so that we have these systems working properly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u36	Mr President! I am sure colleagues here have also regretted that the Minister is unable to be present, because this is an important improvement in the Finnish legislation derived from the posted workers' directive and in that sense it is important to say that this is the best defence of the Finnish entrepreneur that we are able to ensure that working conditions and wages cannot be trampled on through posting or agency work. Here one of our colleagues said that the same wage rules must now be applied. In fact, we have had to follow them so far, but now we are clearly doing this sort of clarification. Then, in particular, relating to these accommodation conditions: That directive did not go European-wide to clarify these accommodation conditions. I remember sitting as a mep in the European Parliament when it was discussed there and I was a reporter for my own EPP group, it was said that it was quite difficult to set certain standards at European level. We in Finland have standards in legislation, and now they are extended to posted workers, which is very good for you. In this regard, Mr Semi has just highlighted the importance of this monitoring and exchange of information. This is one of the key points, because otherwise they will remain dead if they cannot be monitored. What was put into the directive from here to Finland was that we construction sites now have this identification card that shows the identity. This was something that could be taken away from us as a good practice that should be adopted elsewhere, so that we know that those people are actually the ones on the payroll. It is worth drawing attention to the fact that the prior notification of posting is intended to carry out these very substantive changes and the obligation to provide information is extended to all posted workers. This is important in the sense that we are able to make sure that the people who should be there are the people, and, on the other hand, when the authorities of the countries check that wages have been paid, then that the social costs have been paid in one country as well. However, the reason why posting may at present provide cheaper labour is because these social and secondary costs are the legislation of the country of origin, and if there are very low levels, then, of course, it will be possible to obtain cost benefits through it, but we will not be able to know whether they have been paid if we are not able to do this exchange of information between the authorities in these countries. In this context, I would also like to raise the issue that does not actually involve those who have been sent to Finland, that employees have also been attracted to Finland by the fact that it has been said that there is an opportunity to be covered by Finnish social security in a certain period of time and, for example, for families to receive child benefits from Finland. Mr President! We know that we need it in Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u37	Mr President! It would have been wonderful if the Minister had been here in the referral debate to present this. But I am aware that the Minister is in negotiations with the Government, and if such legislation comes, I am very pleased that the Minister is still in the government's ranks doing excellent preparatory work on legislation, and in that sense it is a good thing to do so. As has been said very individually here, this is an important issue, particularly for construction employers, but also, of course, for the Finnish builder, who is most concerned. It is sad to say that the EK has resisted this, while the technology industry there. I understand the EK in some way, however, when it represents more of it than the view of large listed companies that what savings can only be made in the subcontracting chain is just money flowing into the pocket of the owner of the listed company. But what is gratifying is that we here across party lines see this situation, which has been wallpapered. In other words, when you see that SAK, STTK, Akava, Construction Union and the Construction Industry and Finnish Entrepreneurs are behind this performance, it is especially good. Representatives Semi and Essayah highlighted this supervisory resource. We must certainly also start to think about how we are developing our own control systems. If it is foot running and being there, this will become such a costly and bureaucratic system that we need to be able to streamline our own control system and also make the data loop there. We know that pay can be viewed from the account tape and it is stated that yes, the person, the posted worker, has been paid here in accordance with the collective agreement, but, at the same time, as has been pointed out here, the practices regarding accommodation costs are such that there are ten people in the studio and everyone pays 500 euros a month for rent, and that is what this is about. And now that these accommodation costs have come to light here too, so that they must go in line with this presentation in the future, that is particularly important. I think this is an excellent proposal, and it is hoped that, in this corona era, things like this will continue to be brought forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u38	Mr President! This is a very welcome government proposal. Personally, I was a little surprised that, when I saw the time of the interest rate, it was agreed that only legislative proposals relating to it would be brought as a matter of urgency, why would this be urgent? But when I looked at those dates, I understood why. This European Union Directive has already entered into force on 23 June 2018 and must be implemented by the Member States by 30.7.2020. So we have had two years, and only now will this be brought to Parliament. I assume this could have been brought much earlier. True Finns have long criticised the import of cheap labour into Finland because it competes with Finns for the same jobs and tramples on wage levels. This motion now removes this anomaly — I do not know whether it will completely remove it, but at least to a large extent if control is played. In 2019, the total number of posted workers in Finland was around 23,000, i.e. those with the so-called A1 certificate; they came to work for us from another EU country, and the largest countries were Estonia and Poland. A very welcome performance, that's great. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u39	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u40	Mr President! The government proposal under discussion proposes to amend the pharmaceutical law, the law on compulsory storage of medicines and the Act on communicable diseases in certain respects. The purpose of these changes is to improve the availability and adequacy of medicines in Finland. The following amendments to the pharmaceutical law are proposed: Firstly, in the event of a disruption in the availability of a medicinal product or in the event of a likely disruption of access, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health could, as a last resort, restrict or target the distribution, sale or disposal of a medicinal product or medicinal product or of a medicinal product or medicinal product as a matter of urgency for the purpose of protecting public health, or impose a temporary preference on the distribution of the medicinal product or substance. The increasing disruption in the availability of medicines is a global problem. In exceptional circumstances, such as during an epidemic of infectious diseases, access to medicines may become even more difficult. The decision taken by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health would allow for the equal allocation of scarce pharmaceutical stocks on the market to as many people as possible who need them, in accordance with the principle of rational medical treatment. Secondly, pharmaceutical wholesalers would be obliged to report interruptions in the distribution of medicines. In addition, the reporting obligation for holders of a marketing authorisation and a parallel marketing authorisation for medicinal products would be specified. A more precise regulation of the reporting obligation would further improve the flow of information between operators. The proposed amendment can help public authorities, pharmacies, hospital pharmacies, drug centres and veterinarians to be informed of disruptions and interruptions in the distribution of medicinal products which can have a significant impact on the supply of medicinal products. Thirdly, the provisions on the storage obligation for pharmacies and the pharmacy premises would be clarified. Pharmacies should keep an average of at least two weeks of the normal customer base, the amount of medicine, equipment and supplies necessary for the use of medicinal products and the need for bandages. The regulation of the pharmacy's customer premises would be specified in such a way that there should be a single customer space for the sale of medicinal products. The warehouse should be located in this room or in an immediate area near the pharmacy. The purpose of the amendment would be to clarify that, with one authorisation, only one customer space considered to be a single establishment could operate. It is proposed to include provisions on the right of the Inspectorate of Obligations and the Centre for Safety and Development in the pharmaceutical sector to issue binding provisions. According to the proposals, the Agency’s order could be enhanced by a penalty payment. In addition, the law would be specified in such a way that the reserve of obligations must be located in Finland and that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health could also decide on the understorage of obligations in the event of a large-scale problem of access. The Act on communicable diseases would be amended to extend the right of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to temporarily restrict or grant the right to prescribe and donate medicinal products for the treatment of infectious diseases to prevent infectious disease and to medicinal products for the treatment of infectious disease symptoms and sequelae. In addition, the proposal would extend the range of health care equipment and equipment for which a regulation of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health may derogate from the conformity assessment prior to placing the equipment on the market. The aim of these changes is to ensure the equal distribution and availability of medicines and medical devices and supplies for the prevention of communicable diseases and their symptoms and for the treatment of post-diseases. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u41	Mr President! Here you can see that when it’s like this special crisis period, then on the other hand, it’s then accumulating to make legislation when you notice certain shortcomings. During this crisis, it was also seen that regulations of the Emergency Act were needed to ensure the availability and adequacy of medicines in Finland. It should be noted that once these days are removed, it is still vital to see to it that medicines are available and sufficient in our country. When you look at this crisis in the world, you can say that very similar shortcomings have been observed in many other countries and indeed understood that there can sometimes be a problem of, say, the absence of a single drug, which may be critical, for example, in the case of patients with breathing machines or the like, and you can therefore say that this legislation is to be welcomed and welcomed. When the Minister is here, I would have liked to know whether there has been any further consideration of this regulation on the pharmacy network, or whether there is any need for any change in it, because quite a lot — or at least that is what I have understood — during this epidemic, there has also been an increase in e-commerce and, of course, there have been many other ways in which pharmacies have been able to supply patients with these medicines without necessarily having to go there, for example, by risk groups. In that sense, a positive and good proposal, and apparently there has also been extensive consultation with the industry at the preparatory stage of this legislation — and if not, then at least at the committee stage. But on this e-commerce regulation, I would have liked to have had a point of view from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u42	Mr President! Any change that can improve access to medicines is a good thing. This proposal now combines the amendment of the pharmaceutical law, the law on compulsory storage of medicines and the Act on communicable diseases — in part the regulation relating to Article 87 of the Emergency Act — and this idea is also being taken to the law, and certainly rightly so. This consultation schedule has, of course, been challengingly tight. It has been a very short time for the rapporteurs when they have been able to give that opinion, and that has, of course, been a problem in this regard, and the committee will then try to get more information from them. In any case, a thorough examination of this issue is required, and there is a lot to be done here, because some of these will therefore remain in permanent legislation. It is not a question of the so-called 'corona' — yes, the 'corona' — but of permanent changes which are not fixed-term. Some points have been raised here, such as the investment of stocks and also expensive medicines and their storage of obligations. It is certainly a point that needs to be considered how it applies to all of them, because they are really expensive drugs. There are a lot of things here, and I am sure that the committee will go through them carefully. But I would like to raise a question here when the Minister is present. I have taken a legislative initiative to improve the availability of medicines, so that if you find that you are not in a pharmacy to supply the customer with the strength that is in the prescription, for example, then it could be delivered with the strength of another, but with the overall strength remaining the same. For example, there can be two tablets instead of one — carefully — of course, so that the patient is directed, and only when the customer is willing to do so. This would make it easier for both doctors, medical staff and pharmacists, because in practice we now have to call back and forth, try to catch up with the doctor, and then the customer is left without the medicine and has to run after it many times. I would like to ask whether it would be possible to change this point again in this connection in Article 57b. In accordance with this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u43	Mr President! The Government's proposal is in itself acceptable and justified, but the problem remains that Finland is still highly dependent on imports of pharmaceuticals. Already in March, the demand for drugs was record because of the corona virus. When the virus started going around and there were other things that looked like everything else, people went from pharmacies to hoard, especially painkillers and painkillers, antipyretics, and they started to decrease in the shelves. Of course, pharmacies got rid of old products, so it does not get old — but this shortage of medicines has not been just during the corona crisis. When you look at the survey conducted by the Finnish Pharmacy Association, there was already a huge shortage of painkillers, e-pills, antihypertensives, adrenaline pens and anticancer drugs in the autumn of last year, i.e. very important medicines. There was no epidemic here in Finland at the time, so this is not just the current situation. Mr President! It is not always the case that the current blackmails relating to the supply of medicines alone do not always help when the actual quarantine decisions under Article 60 of the Act on Contagion were not taken during the corona epidemic. The recommendation to remain under the conditions of quarantine or other such conditions is not a question of quarantine within the meaning of the law, but rather a recommendation whose non-compliance is not punishable. After all, people didn't stay in quarantine now, even though they wanted it. This increases the use of drugs now that the disease is increasing when people go on spinning where they should not. For example, quarantine recommendations were flagrantly violated at the reception centre of Nihtisilla, Espoo, whose residents have had difficulty complying with the quarantine guidelines set by the City of Espoo's infectious disease unit. Of the 410 asylum seekers living in the reception centre, 101 have had coronavirus infection during the spring, but the authority of the authorities is not sufficient to restrict their movement or exit, let alone prevent it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u44	Mr President! Indeed, this bill before us is important and it is great that it has been brought to Parliament. Indeed, as the Minister has presented here, the main objective of the law is to improve the availability and adequacy of medicines in Finland after the expiry of the emergency conditions and the Act on Preparedness. As has been said here, the shortage of medicines was a reality even before the corona epidemic, and the key task of the Minister for Pharmaceuticals is to do everything possible to ensure that medicines are available, whether there is an epidemic crisis or there is a normal situation that can be reached as soon as possible. When this law has been adopted, there has been a message from the industry that very busy preparations have been made. I am pleased that it has come here, but it is certainly important that the committee chairmen and Parliament are now assessing whether this has been done carefully, because it is a permanent change in the pharmaceutical law, which is not only linked to this corona epidemic, but above all involves: [Hannu Hoskose’s phone rings] That pharmaceutical road map, the entire pharmaceutical legislation, is far behind. There was mention here of e-commerce — are the regulations such that e-commerce can operate safely and in a modern way as it may already be in other Nordic countries? Many other acts have not been dealt with, they may have fallen over the last period of the opposition, if this is allowed, in the form of social braking. We didn't have time to go through those bills. We have that pharmaceutical road map, to which Parliament added the money for this year. The government did a great job of catching up and adding to the public finances plan. I would like to ask the Minister: at what point are these legislative proposals being brought? I would like the legislation on pharmacy to be modernised and to be dealt with again during this parliamentary term — how this is progressing, I would ask. If there is no time, has the ministry now been equipped with officials so that we can move forward and really bring legislation in the pharmaceutical sector to this millennium? In March, the number of customers increased as the government announced restrictive measures. The pharmacies survived, but the bottleneck was made up of a wholesale stairwell from which the goods could not be moved, and the deliveries were very limited for weeks. My question is: why were no additional obligations imposed on the subsidies now? I understand there is only this obligation to report, am I right? I remember that in 2017, the opposition and also us government parties were quite active in talking about those wholesale responsibilities after the Oriola crisis, and then we wondered what kind of legislative proposals would come up. Are they coming? How does the Minister see this? I then saw, as an impotent representative, the very strong desire of health professionals to better inform healthcare professionals and customers about the problems of access to medicines, because quite often the customer is only informed at the pharmacy and that information could be obtained.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u45	Old parliamentary practice is that if the phone rings in the middle of the plenary session, whoever has the phone offers coffee to all the delegates present.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u46	Mr President! Thank you for this government proposal, which I feel is very important in this world. As has been said in several speeches, Mr Sarkomaa and Mrs Lehto last time, we have had problems with access to medicines all the way, and I am sure that questions have come to our representatives in this regard, and I myself put a written question to the Minister myself in the autumn on ensuring access to medicines. So it is quite central. Of course, this corona epidemic has made us particularly aware of this and, as we know, when emergency conditions were reached, the hoarding of medicines began and then, of course, increased the need to be able to deal with the extent to which these medicines can be distributed to consumers and citizens. It has been wonderful that the availability of medicines has been actively monitored throughout the epidemic and that the treatment of medicines has worked well in Finland and that serious problems of access have not been identified, at least according to my own data. As we know, we are at the end of global production chains in the area of pharmaceutical supply. We need to be vigilant here all the time, and that is why I see these proposed amendments to the three laws as very important. With regard to the amendments to the pharmaceutical law, I would in particular raise the obligation for wholesale pharmaceuticals to notify about the interruptions in the distribution of medicines, because it is really important that this information passes when we have those interruptions in production and pharmaceutical distribution. Of course, as has already been mentioned in previous speeches, it is also important that information should already be available to the prescriber and then to the patient. Then, too, I would like to add in particular to the requirement stocking of medicines that the obligation stock should be located in Finland and that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health could also decide on the understorage of obligations in the event of a large-scale problem of access. These are important changes, and I am sure they will be addressed in particular with the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but in principle thanks for this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u47	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for his clear and good presentation. Indeed, as colleagues have mentioned, there are changes to three different laws. In this amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, the most important thing is that this kind of suspicion of a generalised infectious disease is now taken as the starting point for a quarantine decision, and that is important. But I myself, as others have concentrated on this issue of access to medicines, am more concerned. I interpret this whole draft law, as some Members have already pointed out here, that, as we are now moving to a situation in which the Emergency Act and its specific articles, Article 87, in this case: We must also have the means to regulate these matters under changing circumstances, in what is known as ordinary legislation. By the way, the same logic applies later in today's sitting to the regulation to be put on the table for non-urgent treatment. I am not going to extend the debate at this stage, but my own opinion on the matter is that we cannot go all year because we have the article in question — I think there is Article 88 of the Emergency Act. — in force, but, in fact, we must have a separate regulation in the health law, how, in the circumstances in which we are now living, can the ordinary legislation govern that matter. But this is indeed a question of access to medicines and of the fact that state measures, in this case under the auspices of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, can be regulated and prioritised, i.e. to prioritise the treatment of certain diseases, epidemics or other situations with certain medicines. For this to be concrete, let us take, for example, this much - spoken Oxiclor, or hydroxychloroquin, which has been used and tried in various parts of the world to treat this corona infection. After all, it was seen in Finland — this is all newspaper information that we have all had available — that, for two weeks in March, the purchase of Oxiklorin increased dramatically in pharmacies. Doctors began to prescribe for themselves, and then perhaps rheumatic patients asked doctors for prescriptions that they might be able to store these medicines. This is a good example of the fact that if it had now been established that, in some cases, we would need this medicine targetedly for a severe infection in just some patients, those medicines would have gone into people’s home storage for such patients who might not have been in that situation at all. So, in this sense, this legislation is excellent, and when it comes to committee, we will of course go through this thoroughly, but thank you for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u48	Mr President! Mr Lindén described the substance of this amendment of the law well above, i.e. improving access to medicines in such a way that STM could temporarily restrict or target the supply of medicinal products that are in short supply at the moment. After all, feedback on this has mainly been good in the consultation, but it has also emerged that legislation alone is not enough to improve access to medicines. This means that we have had this problem of access to medicines before the corona. I myself asked a written question about it last year, last summer, and I found out that in 2012, for example, there were 156 cases of drug shortages in Fimea, but in 2018 there were 1213 already, which means that in six years the shortage of medicines had already increased seven to eight times. In addition, according to a study by the University of Eastern Finland, as many as 80 per cent of pharmacies had access problems daily or almost daily in 2018. It was adrenaline pens, birth control pills, and even breast cancer drugs. In other words, we have had a situation in some hospitals where even anticancer drugs have been in short supply, and this cannot continue in the long term. We need to consider how to improve this problem of access to medicines in general. Would it be possible, Minister, for example, to work with other Nordic countries on the storage of medicines, on the problem of access, for example in view of the fact that Finland accounts for only 0.3% of the world pharmaceutical market, i.e. it is really small? For the most part, manufacturing and raw materials come from China and India. So I think we should consider the whole value chain in this manufacture and development of medicines and take it in the direction that Finland should develop and manufacture them. This will be affected, among other things, by the government's research money, which we have had reduced over the years, from 90 million to 20 million in 20 years, which means that more would be needed there too. And then there is one other thing, namely that special authorisations for their importation could also be considered, especially in the case of rare medicines. In other words, Mr President, the legislative changes we are discussing here are important, but at the same time we must also consider how to resolve the matter in the longer term.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u49	Mr President! First of all, I apologize for the mistake I made. Apparently, that communication skills and rational management still require a little practice, but I'll try my best. Thank you, Minister, and thank you to the government for a good proposal. This coronavirus crisis has now shown us how incredibly important it is for us to have a sufficient supply of medicines in storage, so that, even in the event of a crisis, citizens in this country will have access to medicines from pharmacies all over Finland. We now know in a tangible way, as was the case with the previous speaker. Disaster noted that there has already been a shortage of medicines in some species. This storage model, which is in use in Finland, is probably working, but it is clearly flawed. As we have just heard, we have many medicines that have not been available during this minor crisis. We must remember that this corona crisis in our lives is only, let me say, the first warning of major crises. There may be other market failures. A disturbance can come from anywhere in the form of a trade war, for example, if international trade is not allowed. Now that the Minister is here, I will take this opportunity to ask two questions. The second concerns the current storage of medicines: is it going to reach a level where we can say to the public that access to medicines is reasonably secure? I don't think we can make an unopened system. The second point concerns these vaccines that are currently being made for corona. I was just online reading the news that the University of Kuopio has already moved so far that the vaccine is probably being prepared. Do we have agreements with international actors that, when vaccines are given, we will be able to get them among the first ones, so that we do not stand in line with them, because that could be a very, very bad option for the citizens?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u50	Mr Vehviläinen and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u51	Mr President! At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the availability of medicines has not only been a problem with this interest rate, but has been a problem for several years. Known medicines — anti-hypertensive medicines, hormone medicines, and even the flu medicine Finrex the other day — have run out for several months, indicating that we now have problems with this availability and should put them in the best possible shape. Here Mr Sarkomaa referred to this road map for the entire pharmaceutical industry. That is one thing, but I believe that this corona crisis will speed us up in this far-reaching setting up of the pharmaceutical sector. I personally think that, with this crisis, when we have seen the problems of medicines and the fact that we do not yet have the vaccine, Finland and also the whole of Europe should be able to invest more in self-sufficiency, because we are highly dependent on China and other Asian countries. It seems to me that when the minister and the ministry have more time, we will hopefully get out of this day-by-day corona crisis and we will have to think about how to improve this own production and also cooperation in Europe. And then to this performance itself. I myself interpret that this is a return to normal in a certain way, that we have normal legislation — indeed three laws are being amended here — and that we can get out of that circle of emergency and preparedness legislation if that is what we could say. This is where the Minister presented what this includes. I personally would like to draw particular attention to a little more to the other point than the previous one, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask you about this amendment to the Act on communicable diseases. When this government proposal states that the proposal also provides for the extension of the range of medical devices and supplies for which a regulation of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health may derogate from the conformity assessment prior to placing the equipment on the market — that is to say, Article 75 — I would like to ask whether there are any problems with certification and what examples of such deviations exist. When I looked at the government’s proposal, there was reference to various types of respiratory protection and then also to these viral tests. I find this interesting. However, since this spring has revealed and wondered how slowly certain products that can be manufactured in Finland can be brought to the market, is this now connected to this, for example? Last week, I think there were three companies that started making these masks. This is what I want to ask you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u52	And now, Minister Pekonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u53	Mr President! Thank you for your good comments and contributions. Indeed, as a number of representatives have referred here to the problems of access to medicines, the problems of access, of which several of you have also asked written questions, this is a big problem and this is also a global problem, not just the problem of Finland. In his own speech, Mr Kauma raised the issue of Nordic cooperation. We have had discussions at European level, among other things, on how we could work together to obtain medicines, and surely Nordic cooperation is also needed here in terms of these pharmaceutical purchases. Similarly, with regard to these vaccines, which Mr Hoskonen raised in his speech, and the availability of vaccines to Finns, we have joined the European joint procurement mechanism, and in this way we will also be able to secure greater procurement. However, as has been said here, Finland is a relatively small player in the pharmaceutical market. Mrs Essayah was already asking questions about online pharmacy shops at the beginning, and indeed the regulatory needs have now been raised in this crisis. We will take these development needs into account as we continue to develop the supply of medicines in line with the guidelines of the road map for future medicinal products. I believe that we will also learn from this crisis when it comes to medical treatment and we will have new guidelines for our work and needs arising. A few Members drew attention to the urgent preparation of this package, and it is quite true that during the corona period we have brought a number of proposals to Parliament on a very urgent timetable, as well as this one. This has been the subject of a written consultation, but it is, of course, very important that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is still going through this. But we have already made changes to this proposal on the basis of these statements. This change in drug or dose size at the pharmacy, to which representatives of Laiho and Sarkomaa referred, is a very important and good thing, and we will study this with experts in the Ministry. I do not promise that we will bring it into this package in any further hurry, but that it will have to be carefully prepared and reviewed with the experts. We will assess that and we will come back to this later. I have to say that a great deal of work has already been done in the last period on the reform of the pharmacy law and on the need for change. However, these government proposals fell at the end of the parliamentary term, and now we are bringing these proposals to Parliament during this part-session, and that is what we are currently going through there. President! I am sure that many questions have not yet been answered — three minutes have passed. Maybe this is quick, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u54	Now the debate and the debate are adjourned. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u55	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u56	Mr President! On another point, I will continue with the previous debate on the amendment of the pharmaceutical law, the law on the storage of medicines and the Act on communicable diseases, which the government has now brought here as a matter of urgency, but this is not really an urgent legislative proposal. I shall now comment on this section of the Act on Contagion. After all, we have changed the Act on communicable diseases in connection with the opening of restaurants, and now another part of the Act on communicable diseases is being introduced, which has been changed so that isolation can be made a general hazard to the suspicion of a justified infectious disease. It is certainly also a well-founded change there, but it amazes the fragmentation of these laws when the same law is introduced several times. In this context, I would like to ask why, when this Act on communicable diseases is now brought here and this isolation, quarantine, it is a question of why, in other respects, the inconsistency of the Act on communicable diseases has not been revised. In infected areas, quarantine refers to the separation of a person who has been exposed to a pathogen or who is suspected of being reasonably exposed from others at home or at any other designated place. At least as far as home isolation is concerned, the legality of this activity would require clarification. There you can now be isolated at home or said that if you are infected, you can be ordered to be at home in quarantine. However, according to the law, such isolation can only be imposed on the health care unit — but now people have been assigned to their homes — and, on the other hand, it would not be possible to restrict their movement. There have been different practices here. These decisions have been taken on the basis of different laws, § 57 has been used Article 63. This is confusing in the field, and this has come from the point of view that the law should be very unambiguous in such a generalized infectious disease, because it concerns both the legal protection of the customer and the legal protection of the staff. The correct application of the Act on communicable diseases and the decisions on isolation and quarantine affect not only the flow of the disease but also people's Kela subsidies and the legal protection of patients and doctors. I wish they would.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u57	Mr President! As far as I am concerned, in this second part of the debate, I am not going to interfere with this issue of the infectious disease law — I took a position on it then, about an hour and a half ago — but on this issue of access to medicines, on which I wanted to raise a few further ideas. In fact, in the previous debate, I have once mentioned such an example, which was quite eloquent. Two years ago, in my work at the time, I attended an international seminar organised by a very high-quality McKinsey consultant, one of the speakers being Marc Harrison, CEO of Intermountain Healthcare. This Intermountan Healthcare operates in the north-west of the United States in a few states and is very well-known, and among other things the former President Obama considered it a kind of gold bouquet of American health care, if you can say so, that is, it was also economically effective, unlike some other units there. Mr Harrison pointed out that, at the heart of the market economy, they had concluded that one of the reasons for the problems of access to medicines was a rather brutal situation, i.e. allowing such problems of availability to arise at times in order to keep the prices of medicines high. It was quite startling to hear a person in the United States speak. He noted that their hospital organization, large, about the size of HUS, had turned to some other hospitals, and they were at least planning — I don’t know if it started — their own pharmaceutical production, that is, a kind of publicly owned pharmaceutical production. Now we have often talked here about this problem of access to medicines, and we know how, for example, vaccine production in Finland was then driven down. We have domestic pharmaceutical production, but all in all this pharmaceutical production has become internationalized and supply chains are long. And in a very serious way, I would suggest that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and even TEAM, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, should consider the question of revitalising or strengthening the domestic pharmaceutical industry in order to make us feel safer in this respect. As far as compulsory storage is concerned, it would be good to have at least a visit to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to look, for example, at the Meilahti underground — although Meilahti is, in itself, a hospital area and 20 metres above sea level — at least a huge supply of medicine, which I think is 20 metres below sea level. It is truly impressive to see when there are several months of drug stores there. These are extremely important issues for our health care, and it is good that this bill is now making some clarifications on these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u58	Mr President! This legislation, which is now the subject of this referral debate, has a good purpose. It wants to ensure that we have sufficient and accessible medicines and that everything is also ensured under exceptional circumstances, and that is why we are now making legislative changes. But here is the problem of the process, in my opinion. When I read those comments on this matter and I have been contacted here too, these commentators have very urgently had to make these statements, and all that reasoning. I do not think that it is right now to impose on Parliament a bit like a corona now under the guise of such laws. I would like to stress that the intention is good. But if this is done very quickly and the commentators feel that they have not been able to get to grips with this properly, to look at all the five sides of the coin, then there is a problem that the work remains here in Parliament. Now, of course, I expect the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to consult experts more widely, especially those who have experienced that they have not had enough time to make a statement about this. These are good things, but under the guise of the corona, we cannot have any legislation here, nor can we assume that they are poorly prepared. In this context, of course, I do not doubt that this is intentional. Absolutely not. All in all, it is also related to that integration law, which was mentioned just now. After all, we have agreed that in these configurations, which we sit on during the day, when there is precisely a limited opportunity to be here and we do not have any debates in place, and we do not have the norm that nothing is being produced here that is not needed at the moment. For example, we currently have a relatively calm situation with regard to the corona, the epidemic, and in that sense there seems to be a period of preparation. Then, if that difficult situation were to happen, it would suddenly be here, but now I would press the controls just like from the point of view of parliamentarianism and also from the point of view of the quality of legislation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u59	Mr President! It agrees that this bill is not directly linked to the corona, because the corona is not even known at the moment. However, without being more familiar with the subject, it is easy to support more efficient storage of medicines and making it possible for domestic pharmaceutical production to operate. I would like to point out that even before this corona crisis, there was a situation where a number of medicines had access problems. According to the information I have received, they were due to the fact that the manufacturing of medicines is highly concentrated internationally, and if there is any disruption in the supply of raw materials, those medicines will simply not be manufactured, and then a small market such as Finland, in particular, will not be able to obtain those medicines in the same way as the largest markets. There may be a situation where a medicine for an illness is not available and does not have a proper replacement medicine or its side effects may be much more difficult for the patient than its original medicine. In other words, we must be able to do something about these issues and about this subject in a longer term perspective than during this interest rate crisis, because it cannot be that the availability of Finnish medicines depends on international supply chains. In crisis situations, they can be broken if world trade does not function normally.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u60	Mr President! There is no need for me to say the last word on different matters in general. On a few occasions, I have shown a great deal of restraint that this would not happen, but I have now taken the floor to comment on Mr Risiko's speech. As a general rule, I have noticed that we are very much in all areas here, where we are speaking, in agreement, and there is no big difference of opinion here either. But the real question is that this has to do with this pandemic, that we have dealt with this pandemic situation in Finland legally under certain provisions of the Emergency Act. This relates to section 87, as I recall. In fact, it gives the State enormous powers to take over the entire organisation of health care — well, it comes from Article 86, but this Article 87 provides, for example, for the manufacture of medicines, wholesale trade and all of these, in which case the State may take control — not socialisation, but directs this activity and imposes certain productions. However, now that this situation of exceptional circumstances is passing — I believe so, and I am sure we all hope so — it will of course remain to be seen — it would be appropriate for us, in normal legislation, to have the instruments to regulate these situations, so that we do not have to go through it, as it were, to say that there are exceptional conditions in the country. Later this day, then at the second sitting, this relates, as I said earlier, to this unsolicited treatment in the same way. Here, too, I think we need to get into a situation where we do not therefore have to maintain the definition of exceptional circumstances in this country, that we may be flexible in this matter of access to treatment without haste, but in the same way as we are now introducing changes to the pharmaceutical law, so we need to introduce a change in the health legislation which will allow us to regulate it there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u61	Mr President! It is quite true what Mr Lindén said that we are always very much in agreement here, and I myself am not criticising the purpose of this law. In my opinion, we need precisely the kind of tool that is in our so-called norm legislation that does not need any specific legislation. It has now been seen in this emergency law that if we go through the preparedness law to deal with these, we will have to keep running them here when we have such legislation — this is a good example, the emergency law versus the infectious disease law: we have an infectious disease law that gives us a pretty good chance to intervene without us running a rumba all the time. Well, in this situation, what we had at the corona, we had a special need to use the preparedness law, that's all, but we do have the infectious disease law. There is a somewhat similar situation here that we are now trying to get into what are known as the norm laws to avoid the need to introduce any system that will provide a thorn-opening system. My criticism was precisely because we need to understand that it is not so urgent with this law that our rapporteurs, when this has been in the consultation, should not have been able to take a look at this, and it has just become that criticism here. It has also been said to me that, in such a hurry, these things must be done, when this is not necessary in such a way that it is here today, and when we have yet to agree that no unsolicited laws will be taken here. Well, here we go a little bit at the grey border, whether this is urgent — if there is another wave, then we do need such a tool, but it is not just a matter of giving a less statement. When Mr Lindén and Mr Laiho are here, both from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I trust that you will hear enough of these experts and let their words be said and changed if necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u62	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 6/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u63	Mr President! This proposed law would implement the Commission's implementing directive on pests of plant origin in seeds and other plant reproductive material, and other technical amendments are also being made here. This report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry is unanimous. In particular, the committee's explanatory statement draws attention to the way in which, for example, these approval signatures can be carried out at a distance, and, on the other hand, to this review measure relating to the anonymous sampling of the material, which relates to the part of distance sales. In that sense, it might be said that at this time, even at the time of the corona virus, these promotions of remote measures give impetus and are, in that sense, necessary and reasonable proposals to be taken forward in parallel with the implementation of this directive.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u64	Mr President! The horticulture sector is an important part of the production and security of supply of Finnish clean food. It is also an excellent hobby. It is necessary to guarantee the high quality and diseaselessness of seedlings sold in Finland. We are changing the law on seedling material, which regulates the production, marketing and import of seedling material of horticultural plants. The committee's report is unanimous. It proposes the adoption of the Government proposal unchanged. In many respects, there is a technical amendment to the law. The purpose of the law supervised by the Finnish Food Agency is to promote the supply of healthy, good quality garden plant material suitable for Finnish conditions. The law also ensures that buyers and users receive sufficient information about the garden plants they buy. As we heard, the amendment implements the EU directive on pests in seeds and other plant reproductive material. There is no national margin for manoeuvre in the implementation of the directive, and the legislation must be transposed into national law. During the interest period, the distance selling of seedlings has increased. Remote sales control has become increasingly difficult. It is necessary to bring into the law this unidentified sampling. In the future, the Authority could order samples of seedlings at a distance from operators without identifying themselves. Indivisibility is important in order to see the same information that the consumer can see on the internet subscription page. Once the product has been ordered, the operator is informed that the sample has been ordered for official control. The law also includes the fact that the Finnish Food Agency will carry out the approval and registration of seedling material in the future. The Agency will therefore accept and take decisions on applications. This would no longer be the task of the Ely Centre. Mr President! The additional work created by the law can now mainly be managed with resources. I support the government's proposal. If you want to be happy, become a gardener.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u65	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kinnus for his good advice. I'm sure you've been busy and working with nature there — it's probably one of the most pleasant tasks for man. As far as this law is concerned, I believe that the purpose of amending this law on seedling material is to ensure that consumers, Finnish people, have the right to access safe seedling material from the market. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that, when we are here in the northern corner of Scandinavia as a small island in a way, we must ensure that the plants and related material that are being cultivated here are brought to Finland or bought from the market – this time, for example, using online commerce – must be pure and specifically disease-free. It must be remembered that when the climate has slightly warmed up — we all know that — rapidly spreading plant diseases are beginning to pose a real threat to certain species in agriculture, and it is also visible in the forest today: for example, in the spruce, some printer is spreading wildly if we do not keep our forests in order. After all, we are discussing a huge amount of hygiene today, which we are observing in forests, for example, that we should be able to leave in a warehouse of barked timber, which is slowly spreading various types of insect pests. There is no problem in Finland. It has practically been handled very elegantly without practically costing anything, and works extremely efficiently. The same applies to the control of these plant diseases. From the dairy sector, for example, it can be said that: I think Finland is the only country in Europe at the moment, which is a salmonella-free country. There are a few discoveries every now and then, it is true, but they have been managed with really good hygiene and high knowledge of what Finnish farms have. With a very serious face, I would now like to see these basic elements of food production and food production in Finland — the purity of food production, freedom from bad plant diseases and high-quality farms, skilled farmers — being firmly adhered to in the context of the integration of the European Union. It is always worth remembering that when that crisis comes sometimes — which unfortunately always comes at times, we cannot help it in this uncertain world — the most secure and cheap life insurance for this nation is that we keep the fields in production, the living countryside, functioning family farms that are able to produce good food for this nation, and that food is produced in domestic production facilities. We are therefore quite strong in this regard, but despite the low nature of the law, it is extremely important, and it is worth taking it seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u66	Mr President! I have heard about statistical speeches in this House, and now I am also making such a statistical statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u69	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the report SiVM 5/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Chairman of the committee, representative Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u70	Mr President! I am presenting our report. — The proposal proposes to amend the Act on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and the Act on Health Professionals following the formal infringement procedure initiated by the Commission. On the basis of a reasoned opinion from the Commission, it is proposed to include provisions on vocational training and the effects of recognition in the Act on the recognition of professional qualifications. On the other hand, it is proposed to clarify the law on health professionals with regard to the recognition procedure for specialist doctors, specialised dentists and specialist nurses. A number of technical amendments are also proposed to the Act on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications. In the same context, it is proposed to clarify the provisions on the equivalence of the law on eligibility for higher education studies carried out abroad. The laws are intended to enter into force as soon as possible and no later than 1.7. This year. Then the arguments put forward by the committee: The Professional Qualifications Directive 2005/36/EC is linked to the fundamental freedoms of the EU internal market, i.e. the free movement of persons and services and the right of placement of professionals. The Professional Qualifications Directive has been amended by Directive 2013/55/EU, which Member States have been required to implement by 18 January 2016 at the latest, and the amendments have been incorporated into Finnish legislation in 2015. However, the Commission has initiated infringement proceedings in relation to the implementation of the Professional Qualifications Directive and its amendments and adopted a reasoned opinion in November 2019 which considers that Finland still does not fulfil all its obligations under the Professional Qualifications Directive. The purpose of the Government's proposal is therefore to supplement the implementation of the Directive in such a way that infringement proceedings can be halted. In an expert consultation with the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs on the implementation of the Directive, the proposal for a draft Act 1 and 2 has been considered necessary from the point of view of the clarity and transparency of both the implementation of the Directive and the principles of decision-making. The proposed changes do not largely alter the application practices of the competent authorities. For example, Valvira has also applied a general system of recognition in accordance with Article 10 of the Professional Qualifications Directive in its previous decision-making practice where the conditions for automatic recognition have not been met. However, according to the study, the obligation to draw up guidelines on vocational training increases the workload of Valvira to some extent. The 3rd draft law of the Government is not related to the implementation of the above directive. The proposed clarifications to the Foreign Studies Act aim to make the conditions and criteria for the comparison of higher education studies and degrees abroad more transparent. According to the expert opinion, it is quite common for university studies to be qualified, in particular teacher education, to be completed abroad as separate studies or as part of a degree that is lower than the degree required for the job in Finland. According to the opinion, it is clear to the applicant and to the prospective employer that the decision to treat a credit is made as proposed only if the applicant simultaneously receives a decision to treat a foreign degree as an aptitude test or if he has completed the required qualification in Finland. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Education considers that the Government's proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee proposes the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the proposal as unchanged. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u71	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Risiko, Chairman of the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Protection, for presenting this issue and, as he said at the beginning, we are in this situation because of the Commission's infringement procedure, which is why we have not put the Professional Qualifications Directive into force as required, and that is why we need these supplements. However, as the President pointed out, the obligation to draw up guidelines on vocational training is likely to increase the workload of Valvira to some extent, and in practice Valvira has so far applied this general system of recognition in accordance with Article 10 of the Professional Qualifications Directive. But in any case this matter will be corrected by this government proposal. Here, too, this government proposal 3. However, the draft law, which is not actually related to the implementation of this directive, is important in the sense that today more and more students are also studying in foreign universities, and then we are happy to call for them to be recognised as part of a Finnish degree. In this respect, I think it is important that clarity has now become apparent to this regulation, and that this credit can only be compared if the applicant receives a decision at the same time to compare that foreign degree with a qualification as a qualification or if he has completed the required degree in Finland, i.e. he cannot think that he collects these different degrees here and then goes to demand these credits within a Finnish university degree. So you cannot think that we have very many types of studies there within a degree, because then, when you think that a person is likely to apply to the Finnish labour market as a rule, we must be sure that this person also has sufficient knowledge and skills and that qualitatively his or her teaching has been something that corresponds to our degree in Finland. Mr President! As Mr Risikko said, this is, in itself, a unanimous report on the Committee on Culture and the legislation to be taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u72	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for a clear presentation. This law must be put into effect as soon as possible. The European Union and its membership speak of us Finns, especially now when it comes to responsibilities and debts when it comes to money. It is easy to see why we are a Member State of the Union. We can study and educate in different countries, entrepreneurs can trade in Europe's internal market, we can travel freely as long as we survive the corona, we can work in accordance with our strengths in this stable Europe of great peace and common values. Of course, this stability has been shaken recently by the pandemic. The European Commission has already made a formal comment to Finland in January last year on the compatibility of Finnish legislation with the provisions of the Professional Qualifications Directive. The note states that Finland has failed to comply with some of the provisions of the Professional Qualifications Directive. This is, of course, one example of a recent pandemic that has postponed the adoption of many of the necessary laws. For reasons of prudence, we have had to move forward with the adoption of non-corona-related laws. If this pandemic period is prolonged, as is now possible, it is important that we start to move the normal legislation even more forward so that there is no congestion. This government proposal responds to this comment from the European Commission. It is therefore necessary to amend these laws. Here's your representative. Mr Essayahkin pointed out that in different countries similar degrees were of different degrees. The Education Committee drew particular attention to the educational attainment of teachers in different countries. We easily forget that Finnish teachers are really highly educated. That is why it is important that this committee's attention be taken into account and that the coordination of education and training should take place in the right way. At the same time, as we are doing a reform of continuous learning, it is important that these European needs also be met.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u73	Mr President! This type of directive, which is what this is all about, will ensure that quality. I think it is very important that such a Professional Qualifications Directive is and is being complied with overall. Of course – and we said so in that committee, as we see from our report – this has already been done in Finland, but our legislation has not been as exact as it should have been. In that sense, it is quite appropriate to correct it now. Of course, always that most important thing is identification and recognition. That is precisely what this recognition is about now. Then, of course, another thing is how to identify that knowledge. After all, we also have a very large number of workers from the European region, and if we look at health care, for example, where we will have an even greater shortage of experts in the future, then we will also need that work-related expertise here and precisely that type of specialist, such as specialist doctors, nurses, we will need them. We have such a common European education, but in any case we need that recognition and recognition of qualifications, because each country still has a slightly different content of education and training, even though they have been tried to standardise, for example the training of nurses, so that when a nurse changes from one European country to another, the employer must be able to trust that she knows it and this and knows exactly what she has been told there, that this is the certificate and, accordingly, part of it. But then, of course, when people come from outside Europe, they have their own thing to do. I myself, as the head of education, have received people whose documents did not necessarily know what that knowledge was at the end of the games. Then, of course, we have to introduce these evidence tests, and then we have to spend a lot of time identifying their skills. And then, of course, there are a lot of these tailor-made training programmes, so that people are updated to Finnish legislation and Finnish competence. Sometimes it takes up to a year, sometimes more, but it is absolutely necessary to do so because health care is about human life and human health. I consider this recognition and recognition of professional qualifications to be important. It increases quality and effectiveness. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u74	Mr President! In fact, 80 % of the issue for which I asked for my own intervention was dealt with in the speech by Mr Risiko, but it is not a good thing that it does not turn out to be a bad thing if I raise a few of these same themes. Above all, here I am drawing attention to the education of health care. During my long career in health care — and in fact I can extend it even to a time when I was not in the health service itself, but because of my family background I spent my entire childhood and my youth living in a hospital area, when in the past decades I heard a lot about what is happening in the hospital world — it was not uncommon for me to have had to hear a little about, for example, in a so-called coffee table discussion, in which faculty the person concerned has completed his medical degree. And at the time in Kuopio, where I lived when I was a child, one such person said that at the University of Sorbonne, and there happened to be a civilized party of its blood on the spot to know that there was no medical faculty at that university, and that was the end of the work. Well, this was an anecdote, a fact of the matter, but since then there has been organised progress, and with EU membership there have now been clear directives on how this has been regulated and, just as Mr Risikko said, the problem is perhaps more of a problem for workers from outside the EU. But this is precisely the case: in health care, where we deal with life and health, it is extremely important that we get the right information about the content of education and training and that they correspond to the standard that we have set in Finland. It is the quality management of health care, and when you compare European countries, such as the United Kingdom, the general conclusion is that healthcare personnel in Finland have a very high level of education and a high level of competence. This is one of our assets why our health care is doing a very good job at the moment. This is a question of technical changes, that is to say to take the qualifications of a specialist doctor, a specialist dentist and a specialist nurse to previous regulations, but the point here is precisely what I was talking about and what Mr Risikko, the chairman of the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy, referred to above.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u75	Mr President! There have been very good and heavy and expert speeches here and, as has been said, the report by the Committee on Culture is unanimous. The committee therefore proposes that the draft law be adopted without amendment. This is the case with the proposal to amend the law on the recognition of professional qualifications and the law In the background of this Commission comment, which has examined the compatibility of Finnish legislation with the provisions of the Professional Qualifications Directive. In addition to these amendments, these technical amendments are proposed with the aim of making the conditions and criteria for the comparison of higher education degrees and studies abroad more transparent, and I believe that this is a very important objective at this point. According to an expert opinion, it is quite common for university studies to be qualified, in particular teacher education, to be completed abroad as separate studies or as part of a degree that is lower than the degree required for the job in Finland. Of course, there is nothing bad about it in itself. It is always worth studying abroad, but it is more clear to the person himself and the employer that a decision on the equivalence of a course of study is only made if the applicant receives a decision at the same time to compare his or her foreign degree with a qualification as an aptitude. It is therefore important, above all, that such ambiguity or lack of interpretation be removed and that clear notes be replaced and perhaps even this post-empty speculation be stopped from validity. In the Committee's expert consultation, the proposal for the first and second draft legislation was also considered necessary from the point of view of the principles and clarity of implementation and decision-making. On the basis of the reasons for the government's proposal and the report received by the committee in general, including the many representatives in the Chamber who sit in the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the proposal is considered necessary and appropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-85.u76	Mr President! Just a few more words about this overall. It is quite true that what has already been said here by the members of the Committee on Culture and Education and by Mrs Lindén is that it is important that there are clear rules on how it is to be identified. This does not, however, completely eliminate the fact that we must, however, have the comparability and comparison when we have some different educational systems in different countries and have some different content. Then there is also talk of traineeships, and there are also different places for traineeships, which are favoured in different countries. It is not quite so easy, and especially when you receive that person as an employer — for example, Mr Lindén, who has employed a lot of people in the field as an employer, knows — it is always, even though it is on paper, that knowledge nonetheless. That is why I would like us to have more evidence in practice and to have access to evidence at the workplace there. It is, of course, its own resource, which will then be needed, and especially if we recruit very large numbers of people or are forced to recruit in a sudden situation, then we must also use these training courses, these small training periods and probationary periods. They can be arranged together with study groups, universities and universities of applied sciences and secondary education, and then, of course, you should also be able to run screen tests. I am certainly not saying that it is enormous, but we have also seen fake medical cases in Finland, and that can also be seen in the future if there is a situation where there is a huge need for nurses, for example. For example, in a European country, where I know there is a huge shortage, foreign recruitment has now been increased, but there is also this fake nurse phenomenon at the moment. In other words, when those papers can also be turned in self - action rather skillfully. That is why I hope that we will also have such specific training in the future, which in some way could be supplemented with the necessary Finnish knowledge, but that then these screen tests and training periods could also be available, which would actually be seen, and it would also increase safety. - Thank you.
