ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u2	Mr President! There is a Hansel Act that takes into account competitive tendering and procurement. We must continue to monitor how this law will move forward and succeed. Public procurement matters a lot, and these things are big money. In particular, food supplies would be of great importance if they were domestic local food, i.e. real, real local food. I would hope that there will sometimes be a situation where public procurement, state and local authorities will have access to local food. Local food would be good for employment, security of supply, Finland's self-sufficiency and, above all, Finland's vitality and also Finland's rural production. I wish there were times when public procurement would be local food for food.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u3	Mr President! This tendering of Hansel companies has been very much on the wallpaper when large purchases have been made that in practice procurement has gone beyond Finnish borders for these commodities. That is why we must in future pay greater attention to the fact that these procurements can be made in smaller parts and that local government procurement favours those regional competitions, so that regional, local and Finnish companies are also able to participate in these competitions. It cannot be that our main acquisitions — what municipalities do, what municipal decision-makers do, joint municipal authorities and provincial purchasing rings — go beyond the borders of our country, but must be able to give the local entrepreneurs a chance. . . [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne : RepresentativeSavola,wait a moment. — — — — I would ask that the debates in the Chamber be moved outside. — Please. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u6	Mr President! Representative Savola, who was the first representative of the Government Party, gave a good speech. Of course, we in the opposition would like the government parties to act accordingly in the government too, that corporate governance works precisely in this direction, that these competitions should not be carried out through the so-called 'easy' method, that is to say, that there should be no huge competitions and then just go ahead of the price point. Quality is one of the essentials when you want Finnish local smaller companies to be able to participate in it and survive. They usually make high-quality products. On the other hand, what Mr Savola also raised, that is to say, splitting up procurement into slightly smaller entities: One example is road management, where the competitions are made so high today that in practice we have only a few that can offer them. They then actually subcontract to those who used to run these roads. And how were those roads treated back then? They were handled better, because then the winner of that big competition did not take away the first slice and the road maintenance could be made much better. I considered that Hansel’s big bidding for cleaning supplies, worth 50 million, has now been completed, and in it the MediTuote Oy of Finland has won that tender.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u9	Mr President! Ninety-nine per cent of Finland's entrepreneurial field is small and medium-sized enterprises. The division of procurement into lots is very important for SMEs to have the capacity to respond to calls for tender. The possibility of sub-offering makes competitive tendering available to a much wider group of companies than for larger acquisitions that are not subdivided into lots. When contracts are divided into suitable pieces, the market is not limited to large operators and, on the other hand, the buyer is not trapped by a single supplier. A significant number of SMEs have experienced that contracting entities have not split procurement into appropriate parts in order to be able to participate in them. This comes out of the latest entrepreneurial poll. Whatever the size of the procurement, public procurement and procurement law are common to all citizens. It is a question of what is acquired with common tax money and whether procurement has been competitively and transparently. The proposal before us must therefore be supported if and when it is intended to simplify and streamline the operation. However, this is not entirely unproblematic. With regard to Hansel’s tasks, the professional services are such that such services are also provided by private consultants, including legal consultants. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stated in its report that it was a problem for competitiveness that a public service operator, who is legally informed about the functioning of the market, should carry out similar activities. It is good if Hansel's impact is monitored and, as the proposal promises, if the market is disrupted, the necessary measures will be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u10	Mr President! Indeed, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, it was precisely this aspect of market failure that we wanted to take into account, that we should ensure that companies have a level playing field in this whole. Perhaps my actual speech now has to do with the fact that Hansel has taken into account the fact that this locality is possible, namely the possibility for municipal decision-makers to take part in tendering with Hansel, and it will enable municipalities to make a real contribution to ensuring that, for example, food-related issues are dealt with in the neighbourhood. In addition, there has been an opportunity here all along to participate in these competitions so that a few small companies or more companies can jointly participate in such procurement and tendering, which in turn allows more and more companies to influence their own situation. That is to say, when it is said that there is a possibility that a foreign company will win the competition, so nothing, we are within the EU, but it is very likely that a domestic company will win the competition when they are able to come together and make the kind of offers that can then be answered. In other words, at this stage I would see Hansel's actions being criticised in vain, because the results, particularly in this last one, which the Medi services have won, prove that it is the local SME that has won this type of offer, and at this point I believe that Hansel's activities are very much in line with this review. Of course, there is room for development, but so far we have done just fine.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u11	Mr President! There has been a lively debate on this issue recently and we have heard good speeches from colleagues. They are in favour of supporting SMEs in these competitions. As far as procurement in the EU is concerned, the law has for a long time clearly guided the division of procurement, and it is in our current procurement law, which should govern Hansel's and the municipalities' activities, clearly stated, but yet we have heard examples of these large procurements which have not been subdivided, and one supplier has been expected to do the whole procurement for several dozen municipalities and the state. I wonder how this is possible when we have a law in force once and for all, which would allow these contracts to be broken down into smaller parts. How is it possible that this is the decision of the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia? Who's there to decide? Should we look in the mirror how we then act on a municipal level, that we do not just make beautiful speeches in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u12	Mr President! Very good speech, Mr Östman. Every time decisions go to bigger places, for example, they go to hospital districts or joint municipal authorities, there is a risk that the decisions already taken at municipal level will be dissolved, and sustainable production methods, such as locality or Finnishness, will no longer be important. I am very pleased that so much has been discussed in this Chamber about local food. If there is a will state, the decision-makers will be able to give back to the buyers, large or small. We have an example of how local food can be taken into account in the large city of Lahti when it is given backrests and there is a willful state of food supply. We have examples of small municipalities, such as the municipality of Konnevesi, where this same thing has been done. Criteria can be set to achieve the desired method of production in food. However, when Mr Heinonen raised the large sections of road maintenance, for example, where there is money left for middlemen, there is also the fact that the production of energy and heat is one such thing. I find it rather strange that because the authorities consider that this would create additional work if they continue to apply for existing contracts, even half the price, they are pulling several different local authorities into a bundle, and then heat production should be, for example, on a clown, which may be twice as expensive. I think it would always be worthwhile if it were to be economically sensible and to support the overall economy, employment in the neighbourhood and the economy, to think about it in terms of competition, so that it would be split up. It is quite possible for Hansel to use these types of operating models, which are also used in municipalities, and once the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has given them back, we will encourage our own actors to do what this House wants.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u13	Mr President! Of course, the main objective of competitive tendering, especially public tendering, is to obtain the most economically advantageous offer and to conclude an agreement. But if the price is considered or packaged into such large entities that you can say that the SME sector and even Finnish companies are unable to offer, then the result can actually be the opposite. It may happen that these employment effects and production will move beyond our borders, and we will then, as it were, saw a branch of our own. That is why this is so important, and that is why special attention was paid to this issue during the last parliamentary term when we were regulating the current procurement law. After all, the Procurement Act assumes that, under the law, procurement must be organised in such a way that small and medium-sized enterprises and other entities have equal access to the tendering procedure with other tenderers. In practice, this means making meaningful entities that enable this to happen. With the excellent contributions made to this work by Hansel, it is really nothing more than that the legislator's will for all activities and competitions should also be respected and, when considering these entities, it should be borne in mind that we do not exclude Finnish SMEs from competitive tendering because these conditions and restrictions are such that they are not able to participate. At the end of the day, Mr President, I have an interesting idea: I remember reading that there was an arrangement in place in the state of Texas in the United States where legislation directed 20% of purchases to the SME sector, which enabled small and medium-sized enterprises to get a kind of reference deal, to enter the market with their own products and to create new innovations through it, and to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises to grow. This kind of activity would be excellent for me, and at the same time it would serve the whole of Finland and our growth and development.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u14	Mr President! The current procurement law and, in particular, the prior procurement report, all of them, stressed the need for competition to be carried out in such a way as to enable smaller companies to take part in the competition. This case, which has finally risen enormously, is certainly an example of what should not be done. After all, the law provides a full opportunity to tender and divide the call for tenders into smaller parts and then to tender in such a way as to enable local companies to operate. As far as I know, Hansel is bound by these same climate requirements as all the other companies that work for the state, i.e. to minimise transport, thereby minimising emissions and, above all, allowing local companies and domestic products to enter the market. After all, we do not always know where these products come from when goods are moving. They may come from abroad just as well, and who will find out where they come from, and there is no such liquidator who examines every package, that is clear. But what worries me most is the fierceness of competition that is practised in Finland in this way, where large works are given and large deliveries throw small ones out: it is a purely security of supply issue. If, on the energy side, we take this road, as we've already gone... A week ago, on Monday, I met a Finnish entrepreneur who collaborates with an eastern neighbour, who delivers wood to his country of origin and, above all, energy wood, some peat will come. Now that we are doing this climate policy and feel that domestic energy, especially peat, must be stopped, we are making a terrible strategic mistake. Brave Kaleva Kekkonen, once a life’s work, always warned us that we must never become dependent on the supply of energy from the eastern neighbor. Of course there can be energy, but we can't depend on it. Trade with our good neighbour must always be done, it has always been good for the Finnish people, I have never blamed it, but we must not become dependent. These are two different things. Now, with this energy policy, where peat is now being cut off, Finland becomes completely dependent on the application from Russia. It will lead to huge price increases — on the days when the cold day in Finland will come. Every Member of Parliament in this House will certainly know whether we have any room for manoeuvre in the budget to compensate for some rising energy costs in the current economic situation, when we are about to introduce cutting lists in the house. Certainly not, there is no cents, there is no euro — on the contrary, we will have to cut it. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this issue will be taken seriously, because if we drive our energy policies dependent on neighbouring countries and drive our own energy sources down, then we will take a risk that must not be taken under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u16	Mr. Speaker! Last week, this one of Hansel's competitions was indeed discussed very strongly, and I was also involved in it. Now we know that the information we then received from us in the debate is not entirely true, but that this competition for sanitation products was won by the Finnish MediTuote Oy, a small wholesale company in Jyväskylä, which certainly — as has been said here — acquires these products from different sources. In this regard, it should be pointed out that Hansel is not accused of what it is not guilty of. The EU competition directive is behind all of this. I remember that, when, more than ten years ago, the procurement law was discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs, an expert said that there are, I think, more than a hundred restrictions in the directive that govern national legislation, our procurement law, and then make it extremely difficult. For the EU, this competition is one of the most sacred things, the fact that it operates everywhere, and then it will have to be implemented by law in our own countries. Well, Hansel is voluntary to municipalities, there is no obligation to use Hansel, and, for example, this hospital district in South Ostrobothnia has used its own purchase, and then it can do it just as it considers it, under the law, but it must be remembered that these acquisitions are often made by a single official in municipalities and joint municipal authorities today, and he is bound to the law and, if he deviates from them, the municipality will be subject to market law — a competitor who has lost will certainly take it — and if the official takes a decision a couple of times that goes wrong in market law and then brings a large bill or other kinds of difficulties to the municipality, then it will be in a rather difficult situation for this official. You may even be fired if this happens more often than not to make an illegal decision. This often leads to the price being over-decided in procurement, and then, for example, this local company or the SME sector suffers because of this. In other words, there are a wide range of factors here, but I would say that the main problem is the EU's overly tight competition directive, which leads to this practice. All of us, and I too, strongly believe that small and medium-sized enterprises should be favoured and used wherever possible, but we must bear in mind these limitations as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u17	Mr President! It is excellent that this debate is being held here again. Yes, it has to be said that competition law should be reviewed in a very significant way. Our euro representatives in Brussels should also take into account this competition law, which originated from the EU directive, at least from the Finnish perspective, which is totally unfair. As a result of the tendering process, local unemployment and local anxiety are currently being created. As an example, the Hospital District of Varsinais-Suomi competitiveed the transportation of emergency care with the result that all those entrepreneurs who had managed these services close to the people there for over a decade in small villages and towns lost the competition to a company that had no transport equipment, not employees, but was the cheapest price.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u22	As the representative noted, the matter was somewhat overtaken by this matter. I would like to draw your attention to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u23	Your Honor! After all, public procurement amounts to around EUR 35 billion a year, and we have very many problems not only with the current legislation, which of course needs to be corrected, but also with procurement skills. There are huge shortcomings in municipalities' procurement skills, and this is what the whole population suffers from. It is already possible for the public sector, within the framework of current legislation, legally to favour local food, for example. But since procurement skills are not at a level that we can make the most of this current legislation, it must, of course, be strengthened in every direction. Then I'm going to bring up a more unpleasant aspect of public procurement. Municipal corruption is reflected specifically in public procurement, land use and construction. Perhaps cases have already been raised in this Chamber where this municipal corruption has been observed. It is very important for us to insist that every purchase that we have in the municipalities and the public sector in general should be made as transparently and professionally as possible, that it should be possible to check afterwards that everything has gone as it should. In this respect, legislation could be developed — of course this is the case here — so that, for example, it could be possible for all purchase invoices to be published in all Finnish municipalities at all times, and this could also apply to municipal companies. So here's this kind of discretionary idea for further development in public procurement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u24	Mr President! The crux of the matter is that in the last period Hansel and Kuntahanna joined together and separate legislation was adopted. In the context of this legislation, the so-called public service activities of this Hansel were still unfinished, which will now become available in this legislation, and also the fact that Hansel will be able to collect information on these procurements. That is the starting point. Of course, these above-mentioned issues are also related to today's point, because Hansel is also advice on these different issues, and I would like to see this very aspect of municipal procurement, the competence, the ability to supply, with which they also advise these companies, strengthened in this company, Hansel. In Finland, municipalities make their own purchases, then there are separate municipal groups that make their own purchases, they come through them. The market is therefore indeed EUR 35 billion a year. I also fully agree with the view that, during the last period, a new procurement law was adopted, that the procurement law in the municipalities and in these purchasing companies is not known. We may be able to split up procurement there, we can emphasise innovation, we can emphasise employment, we can emphasise the environment, we can negotiate with different purchasing groups before purchasing it, and see if there are, for example, seasonal vegetables available in the neighbourhood. This is what you do when you buy it, and you can do it. But here the other side may be the fear of the officials responsible for these procurements becoming a complaint. That's one thing, so that's one thing, too. We should strengthen the skills of these officials to be able to make such purchases in a way that local SMEs can also be involved. Here Mr Kankaanniemi took the blame of the EU, but perhaps with these arguments I would not take this issue that far. Yes, we have to look at the decision-making of our own municipality and the acquisitions of our own municipality and the acquisitions of the state itself. Here, for example, what the representatives of Hoskonen and Kalmar have said is that the state and municipalities, for example, should be an example. Currently, Senate properties are actually bidding for energy in Finland in such a way that there will be large combinations of dozens of heating plants. Then we're going to hit these clowns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u25	President! I agree with this excellent speech by Mr Pirttilahti. In my own speech, I was thinking of raising this particular negotiating process as a method which is very little known yet, but which should be used more. Its legislation is granted to all our municipalities and other public communities. In other words, it is a very open approach which brings together all the players in the sector. Let us look at together what solutions we can use to make any product or activity, and then we will be very open to competitive tendering on that basis, i.e. this will not favour any individual operator, but will also allow different operating models to implement perhaps cheaper practices in some cases, as could have been done well in this energy production, for example. A good example on the food side is, for example, the fact that a time limit is being competitive: potato peeling must be a certain time when it has been delivered. Quality factors can be put in place, for example, to ensure that the meat is traceable. The milk may be required to be gmo-free. It may be required that berries and vegetables can be used without heating, which is not possible in products imported from abroad due to the risk of various bacteria and bacterial diseases. There are examples of this kind when only there is the backrest and the common will.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u26	Mr President! Still enough of these public procurements that when we always look at the whole, we have to take into account, of course, the first Finnish security of supply: that everything always works properly, in all circumstances. Another point is cleanliness: when it comes to food orders, for example, do we get the best, clean food, or do we perhaps eat some items of food purchased abroad with traces of medicines or other problems? So this is a public health issue, too. Then, of course, energy policy comes in third place. In his speech, Mr Pirttilahti mentioned the heating of military barracks in which the heating fuel has been competitive, and this time I hear it coming from across the eastern border. In time, a huge stir arose, I think, in the late '90s, when the army launched a competition for its bread supply. It was won by a Swedish wuss, and then the noise went up, and then it was corrected when the Finn won the next competition. In these matters it should also be patriotic enough that our own acquisitions, which are important to the nation, are always concentrated in Finland. For sure, calls for tenders can be made in that way, Hansel will ensure that the degree of homeness is maintained and all security factors are taken into account. When we have peaceful conditions and things are going well in the world, then there is no problem, but for example, this current corona crisis, which seems to be growing ever bigger every day: what about when we have supplies from abroad and there is no production of our own, what do we do then? So here's the thing that's worth the domestic. Every Finnish, and especially a Member of Parliament, will have a heart beat in the chest to make patriotically wise decisions. It does not in any way infringe competition law or other EU law when we act correctly and openly. But what is important is that the tenders are made as the procurement report and the procurement law say and not as a giant lump, because when these small entrepreneurs disappear from the market, then I think that the price, unit prices, in the next tender and in its final result, will be a little more than today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u27	President! These concerns, which have now been heard in this Chamber today on this subject, are certainly justified. We know that Hansel is also regarded as an expert organisation. Obviously, it is not in all its aspects. That's the same feedback that's already come from the field. Now we know that on 5 December 2018, when the Hansel Act was amended, the municipalities also came along, and municipal procurement basically changed under Hansel. Today, I think there are almost 200 municipalities that use Hansel to their advantage. We also know that the economy of greatness is not always the right answer. As has been said many times here: if the price is the determining factor, we know that rarely do we get a good product cheaply. Hansel himself asserts in his own advertisement that he will compete with the best possible terms of the contract, taking into account price and quality factors. I hope that this will happen and that domesticism will also be one of the key elements of this competition. The Finnish Entrepreneurs, on the other hand, say that the procurement law and common sense say that the opportunities for SMEs to participate must be taken into account in the procurement process. This is precisely the fact that, according to the law, everyone must get to the same line. Unfortunately, only the municipalities in Finland do not have sufficient procurement expertise, and that is one of those major flaws, and that is why it is very easy to move to such larger entities, and there is a great deal of experience in that field, what has happened to them when they have had to dismantle contracts and re-impose them. If I return briefly to this proposal itself, we are talking, among other things, about the implementation of international joint procurement and, as a warning, about the very precise nature of the products and services to which international cooperation is appropriate — this too does not go beyond our control in that Europe. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also considers it problematic, in terms of competition neutrality, that a public service operator, who receives legal information on the functioning of the market, is engaged in activities similar to those of private traders. This applies in particular to procurement and expert services. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it important that the Government closely monitor Hansel's impact on the market for expert services and take the necessary measures if the market for expert services appears to be disrupted. I also hope that here too we will see how this Hansel development will continue, and I hope all the best that there will be good solutions, even though it seems a little suspicious at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u28	Mr President! A few ideas that go beyond what has been said, particularly in connection with the procurement law. Mr Laukkanen presented the case of the transport operator, and this too is quite clearly a question of what type of tender has been submitted and what kind of expertise is there in the use of the terms of the procurement law. If there are clearly scored references, then there will be no entrepreneur who simply does not have those references and scores will be low. So the person who makes the call for tenders has to have a point of view. Local food has been mentioned, and I believe that Mrs Hoskosen's good speech will receive support in this regard. Mr Hokkonen, chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, will certainly agree that domestic food is valued and respected. We cannot directly demand domestic food, but we can put in there, for example, what is the carbon footprint of food, and then the domestic food will certainly do better, and that is a very relevant basis. Representative Lulu Ranne spoke of corruption and transparency. I agree with that and, for example, with this idea of transparency in purchasing bills — for example, Helsinki uses it, has been using it for a long time. My municipality of Valkeakoski introduced it a few years ago. When it is further developed in the direction of getting information out faster and perhaps in graphic form and thus away, it will be easier for the entrepreneur to see what has been acquired and at what price.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u29	Mr President! This morning, around 10 a.m., the government has received an announcement that the Marin government intends to clarify the principles of joint procurement. This is great news for all of us in this debate. Competition law is difficult to understand. In my home town of Espoo, we have dozens of lawyers who read this legislation and come to us in different committees to tell us that ‘it is difficult to respect’. The law must not be such that the municipalities need ten lawyers to find out what it means. If this is the case, then there is a place for clarification of the law in plain language. President! Let me add that there is so much speciality in these procurements because of this EU directive, which we are now implementing here, that we will soon really need this kind of basic education in every municipality in order to make sense of these issues. Britain here, with a little envy, has been able to shake this burden on the back of the EU and can now, on its own, legislate and compete in the interests of its own country. This is not a position to leave the EU, but it is in this debate today that I envy them a little.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u31	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here: Hoskonen, Laukkanen, Kiuru, Koskela and so on. In the case of competitive tendering, the price must not be such a determining criterion that quality suffers and becomes secondary. It is fatal to leave small and medium-sized enterprises only at the feet of giants. Roads, local food, energy — they have been raised here today in the debate. Security of supply in everything must be taken into account. Uncertain times, as we know. Finland should be prepared for its own production extensively. The EU Competition Directive imposes a great deal — too much, as Kankaanniemi has explained here. Although you know that it would be best for the whole to choose quality and perhaps a smaller company product, the cheapest offer often wins because officials are afraid of further action. I would therefore like to have the courage for officials to choose the most often domestic product. Food has been strongly raised here, and it is true that when we eat Finnish meat, vegetables, root vegetables, eggs, we know how animals have been treated — mostly well. We know that there are not too many antibiotics used. But when we get food from abroad, we do not know where it comes from, so homeliness to honor, local food to honor! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u32	Mr President! That's where Elomaa raised the issue of domestic food production, and that's what many other people here have been talking about, I think Hoskonen started it. It is important, but there is something wrong here, funnyly, if we are talking about domestic food all the time — it is important, I agree — but if there is a farm built for domestic food, some barn or something like this, then when a farmer competitions it, if it comes in steel or something else, then unfortunately that producer of domestic food has to choose very often in that livestock building construction materials or lattices or other abroad. Yeah, we're pretty screwed up about this thing. Unfortunately, this situation has fallen into it. We are living in a common currency which causes us such problems. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u33	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented in order of 3. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Defence, the PuVM 1/2020 vp is to be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the legislative proposals. The debate was suspended at the plenary session on 6 March 2020. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u34	Mr President! Indeed, the debate continues. Friday began, and in my speech I said that the Nordic countries, the EU countries and NATO are natural areas of cooperation, as well as the countries with which we have bilateral agreements. I stressed that these countries and these bodies are countries that think the same way. Well, in his own speech,Mr Mustajärvi tightened up what the ‘style’ means,is the same as the value,whereever it can be answered after the schedule has expired:maybe we can think about it. Values guide our activity, and when there is action, it is something of a style. When I said that we are doing things in some style, we are doing things with them with some values, then I was talking about countries with the same philosophy as human rights: respect for the rule of law, respect for free media, independent courts, freedom of expression and so on. Mr Mustajärvi also drew attention to the fact that the Finnish administration had used a secret encryption system similar to that used to be known by Sweden and Sweden that the encryption system was not safe, leaked, and drew attention to this issue. So much history that we learned in 2013 that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is being espionaged, and we were informed of it by a foreign state actor, that is, intelligence. This is now something that was brought forward during the last parliamentary term. We have passed intelligence legislation that enables our authorities to have similar opportunities to those of many countries in Western Europe — practically all of them. Once we have these rights, we can also exchange intelligence with countries with which we cooperate and have similar values and, if you want to say so, a similar style.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u35	Mr President! It is great to see that joint defence cooperation is being developed further. Ensuring security of supply is the lifeblood of a small country in the event of a possible conflict. The now approved updated treaty between Sweden, Norway and Finland will deepen cooperation between our countries and provide a clearer framework for cooperation. Our little northern country can never be left alone again. It is therefore appropriate that Finland commits itself to all the cooperation bodies of Western democracies and expands defence cooperation with them as far as possible. Common security of supply arrangements and material supplies are natural to implement in cooperation with our Nordic partners. In my view, Finland's will status as defined in 2012 and 2017 in the Defence Lifes is very clear: closer and deeper cooperation at Nordic level, both in foreign, security and defence policy. There is a clear popular support for this line, a consensus across government-oppositional borders, and, for example, this package of agreements under discussion today has been turning several different government bases. Mr President! It must also be said here that, unfortunately, power policy has returned to Europe and to our Baltic Sea region. Former Minister of Defence Jyri Häkäman was publicly condemned when he mentioned in 2007 Finland’s three biggest security challenges as ‘Russia, Russia, Russia’. Since the illegal annexation of Crimea and the war in Ukraine, there has been a considerable decrease in the amount of disapproval. He was a wise man from afar. True, his then threat assessment still holds true. You can never expect too much for a bad day, and that is why cooperation with all Western democracies must be intensified. This also applies to NATO, which, by the way, includes the Kingdom of Denmark and the Kingdom of Norway mentioned in the package of agreements under discussion today. Mr President! The strengthening of defence cooperation, as proposed by this government, is in the right direction. However, we need more ambition in the Western integration of defence policy. Here in Parliament, we should launch a serious debate on Finland's accession to NATO and thus contribute to the development of the Western integration. In Sweden, the majority of the people and the entire bourgeois bloc are already in favour of this membership. It is only a matter of time before the Swedish Social Democrats also lift their thumbs to NATO membership and the country submits its own application for membership. All references to this development already exist. Since Finland's three biggest security threats are still the same as they were a decade ago, we must promote and intensify defence cooperation with the democracies of our neighbouring regions as far as possible, all the way to NATO membership.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u36	Mr President! That speech by the previous representative was so strong that I must immediately comment on it. I take the exact opposite of what he said about NATO — I think it was a rather bold speech. Last week, when we started the debate on this issue, it was a pleasure to see that a great many members of the Committee on Defence spoke here, and I must say that it is wonderful that we have a very united view that there should be domestic ammunition manufacturing and defence equipment in Finland. This was a pleasure to note, and I think that we all pointed out in our speeches that we should continue to hold on to these. So there are two companies in Finland, Nammo and Patria, who are now in charge of the debate. If we are to be able to secure their operations and their construction and development here in the country of origin, we must guarantee them the conditions and be active in maintaining our own security of supply. This is the only way we can ensure the security of supply of crisis times and crisis situations in Finland. That is what we must stick to; we must not give up any of these companies. They also have holdings in Norway and, as far as I understand it, in Sweden as well. Now, in the course of this debate, we have had a lot of discussion about this corona virus, and it is a good reminder to our society of the importance of the operating conditions of the domestic industry in Finland and also in sectors other than the defence equipment industry. So, for security of supply, we have to hold on together with all our claws and teeth. To repeat, I would like to highlight this possible ban on lead based on the European Union. If we go into it, then we will open the gate to Nammo Lapua in the same way, from which there is no return.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u37	Mr President! Ensuring security of supply in the event of a possible crisis is definitely a central task of the state. In addition to national preparedness measures, we also need international cooperation, which is a wise step in every direction. In the present world of global supply chains, security of supply cannot be based solely on national preparedness measures, but cooperation with other countries of the same mind is essential. Cooperation on security of supply with Sweden, Norway and Denmark is very much to be welcomed. We have close and confidential relations with other Nordic countries and, in addition to this, we have much of the same concerns and interests regarding security of supply. The attached agreement provides for security of supply arrangements, development and measures and the conditions under which the Nordic countries can provide and receive assistance from each other. In this context, the parties also have the opportunity to choose separately which substantiation sectors they commit to, which serves their individual interests. The agreement offers an opportunity to achieve efficiency gains. Closer cooperation will enable us to make the most of the opportunities for cooperation in the field of defence materials and avoid unnecessary duplication of activities. The strengthening of defence policy cooperation with other Nordic countries is in all respects a very natural and sensible development for Finland. Sweden, Norway and Denmark share the same values with us and wrestle with the same geostrategic and security policy challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u38	Mr President! This agreement and cooperation on Finland, Sweden, Norway and Denmark are extremely important for Finland. Finland's military policy position is clear here in the Nordic countries, and we are working well in different directions, of course. The European Union is one of our partners, an important one. Of course we are also working with the United States for PFP cooperation and for the rest. Then we take care of our own defenses ourselves, and as Urho Kaleva Kekkonen once said, we get friends close and enemies from a distance. This principle must continue to be maintained, and that means that, here in the north, we are, in a way, in the far corner of the world, that the partners we have are in that west, very important partners: Sweden, Norway and Denmark, democratic states with which cooperation has been natural for centuries. Since the beginning of time, we have worked together in different ways, trade has been taking place and people have moved across borders, we have travelled between ourselves to different countries. Then, for example, in Finland, as we know, almost half a million people have gone to Sweden in time for job-seeking. In other words, when all this cooperation has been natural to us, it would be strange if, in this environment, we did not develop this cooperation in such a way that we cooperate in the material sector. In future, I hope that we will also be able to cooperate in the field of armaments, to produce armaments by means of joint efforts, a joint undertaking, which would be extremely important for security of supply, because we must remember that when there is a crisis in the world — which we sometimes sometimes do — it seems that we cannot do anything about — it is wise to prepare ourselves so that we keep our partners close. And then, in different directions, we will also work well with Russia, and friendship and trust will remain between us, so that one day we will not be in a situation where we are in trouble again, as we were 80 years ago. Now that we are living in March and soon to be 80 years after the end of the Winter War, this issue is therefore extremely topical.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u39	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen there referred to the day of remembrance that we will be celebrating this Friday throughout our country. Among other things, church bells rang in honor of the Winter War Memorial Day. From a historical point of view, 80 years is a very short time, and we still have among us those who defended our country on the war front or on the home front, and even more in the midst of us are those whose childhood or youth was overshadowed by war. Mr President! It is important for us to work for peace but also to prepare for the worst. It is extremely important that, in spite of the changes in the world, or precisely because of them, we also ensure credible defence in cooperation with other countries. This government proposal is about improving cooperation between the Nordic countries in ensuring access to defence-related materials. In this report, the committee rightly stresses that we must ensure that, as a country in Finland, we have the capacity to defend our country independently, if necessary. This means that we ourselves must have sufficient knowledge, sufficient security reserves, for example, ammunition and the ability and readiness to produce the necessary material during the war. The committee notes that Finland has been developing its security of supply for decades in a way that is unique in the EU comparison. At the same time, the committee notes that national resources are not enough in today's world alone, but we must also look for partners. Mr President! The Nordic countries are in many ways a natural and safe partner for us to work together, just as has already been mentioned in this debate. The Government's proposal also follows the line of the 2017 Defence Report. It states that we will intensify cooperation among the Nordic countries, among others. The Government's proposal supports the defence of our country and deepens cooperation with our immediate neighbours and is therefore very good and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-10-ps-20.u40	Mr President! Nordic cooperation in the security of supply sector is self-evident because of the location of the countries, but the study of the National Defence Information Board also supported the fact that the closer the partners are, the more meaningful the cooperation will be perceived and the wider the acceptance of this cooperation in Finnish society. It is also extremely important when we talk about a national issue as important as security of supply, that information is passed between the government and the opposition, even if it is a state-owned attempt, and that information goes beyond government exchanges, so that, as has often been the case, there is no reason to suspect that too much has been left out, far too many things, and wants to be that sooner or later things will come out. As far as international cooperation is concerned, no matter who it is, this cooperation must not be naive. The company Crypto AG was recently announced: For decades, the Finnish administration, among others, had a communications encryption system that had been breached in the United States. There were decryption tools so that the Finnish message exchange could be followed. Sweden knew this for decades but did not tell the Finns anything, and yet the Swedes have become accustomed to being regarded as the most reliable partners. How different countries prepare for security of supply: Norway is now an interesting example of this corona case. It made a pre-emptive order for protective equipment — anticipated danger — but if the crisis continues, they will not be enough, and business and defence and state sectors have already been brought together to start their own production. It is therefore important that these own production roots should be kept at home and not be given away, for example through joint ventures, because not only the joint venture, but also where production is located.
