ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u1	The third item in the order of business is the Prime Minister's announcement of how to deal with the corona crisis. Following the speech by Prime Minister Sanna Marin, I will give answers in the order I have considered. Answers are reserved by V-button. A maximum of 2 hours shall be reserved for the proceedings. In practice, 2 hours will be spent if you take the floor. As we continue to follow the recommendation that there should only be part of the House, today's proposal is that, in the middle of this debate, the list of responses will be resettled, and if the groups want to switch to the Chamber, there will be an opportunity for this exchange, and then the requests for reply will be re-opened. This exchange takes place at 15.05. I'm trying to hold on to that time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u2	Mr President! The global COVID-19 corona virus pandemic has driven societies into an exceptionally serious crisis both in health and economic terms. Until the beginning of the year, we had no idea that the crisis would become so deep and serious. Although Finland’s preparedness for different situations is good compared to many other countries, we have also been surprised by the epidemic and its social and economic effects. Finland has introduced exceptionally extensive and severe social restrictions at a very early stage of the epidemic. Restrictive measures have been taken to prevent the progression of the disease among the population, to ensure the carrying capacity of our healthcare in all situations and to protect the lives and health of people at risk, in particular, for whom the disease can be very serious. We have also managed to slow down the progression of the disease and have been able to adapt our activities to the changed situation. For example, the level of health care preparedness has been increased and intensive care capacity increased. Although, fortunately, the disease situation has remained moderate in Finland as a result of the restrictive measures, we cannot sigh for relief. The situation is still serious. The disease is unpredictable, and there's still a lot of things we don't know about the coronavirus. Mr President! The Government's guidelines on restrictive measures and other measures have been based on the latest available information and experts' assessment of the progress of the epidemic. Since the virus is new and has spread rapidly in different countries, we have had to make decisions in the midst of uncertainty and severe time pressure. It has been valuable that there has been extensive cooperation between all parliamentary parties in Finland in order to enable the rapid introduction of restrictive measures. I particularly thank the opposition parties for their constructive cooperation in this national crisis. The Government has tried to keep parliamentary groups informed, and the situation and activities have been discussed regularly with all groups. That is also what we want to continue. The government has also worked closely with the Member States and institutions of the European Union during the corona crisis. At ministerial and Prime Minister level, we have been in close contact, especially with our neighbours Estonia and Sweden. The European Council has met four times in remote contact to address both health measures, restrictive measures and measures resulting from the economic impact of the corona crisis. It is vital that Europe looks for solutions to the crisis together. We need joint coordination and joint action. We also need wider multilateral cooperation to defeat the global pandemic, develop the vaccine and ensure its availability. Finland has therefore decided to increase its WHO voluntary funding to EUR 5.5 million. Finland is also committed to an international vaccine study to develop a coronavirus vaccine and will finance the development of the vaccine by EUR 5 million. Mr President! We would not have been able to curb the epidemic in Finland without the commitment of the public to comply with the restrictive measures. People have acted responsibly and have taken the situation seriously. For that, thank you all for all of you! Thank you also to the numerous health workers, teachers, cleaners, police officers, public transport drivers, trade and catering workers and numerous other professional groups as well as to Finnish companies that are responsible for the functioning of society in the midst of the crisis. Mr President! Exceptions and restrictive measures are heavy on all of us. Toleration of uncertainty, a normal everyday life, longing for family members and friends, and concern about the health of people and their loved ones caused by the disease are a burden on their minds and well-being. Some are also concerned about their work and livelihood. The Government has decided on a number of measures to safeguard jobs and people's livelihoods and to facilitate the situation of companies in the midst of the crisis. The social partners have also done valuable work to find solutions. It is important that, in difficult times, we are able to cooperate widely and seek solutions together. Many Finns will certainly ask when restrictions can be lifted and returned to normal life. The question is understandable and I would be happy to give a clear and unambiguous answer to it. The truth is, however, that we do not yet know how long the situation will continue and when we will be able to return to normal life. Even if we manage to suppress the disease in Finland, it is possible that it will return later. One way or another, we have to learn to live with the virus for the time being. It is clear that we will not survive the crisis without damage. The epidemic has serious implications for human health, well-being and the economy. We are trying to make the damage as small as possible. But they inevitably leave their mark. It is important that the burden of the crisis is shared socially, economically and environmentally sustainablely and fairly between generations. Mr President! On 22 April, the Government updated the Finnish Coronavirus Strategy after consulting experts on the situation. Our objective is still to prevent the spread of the virus, to safeguard the carrying capacity of our health care and to protect people particularly at risk. For the time being, Finland has succeeded well in curbing the progression of the epidemic. The Government therefore estimates that it is possible to move gradually and controlledly from extensive social restrictions in Finland to intensified epidemic management under the Act on communicable diseases. However, not all restrictive measures can be withdrawn at once, as the situation is still serious. In addition to the controlled dismantling of restrictions, Finland’s hybrid strategy relies on testing, tracing, isolation and management thinking. It involves extensive testing, effective tracing of identified cases and chains, isolation of infected persons and quarantine of exposed persons, preventing the disease from progressing. As part of the hybrid strategy, the Government will continue to prepare for the deployment of the mobile application to be used in the management of the epidemic. The key condition of the application is a voluntary model that respects individual data protection. By 1 May, a study group led by Secretary of State Martti Hetemäe, appointed by the Prime Minister's Office, will draw up a plan of restrictive measures to move away in a timely manner and move towards the next phase of disease control. The government's negotiations on this issue will take place on Sunday of this week, 3 May. However, the Government's negotiations on early childhood education and education are already taking place today so that the providers of education can prepare for the provision of local education if necessary. The government will closely monitor the effects of the decisions taken on the progression of the disease. We are also prepared to change our decisions and always correct our policies in the light of new information. Mr President! The government has also made mistakes in the midst of the crisis. For example, it should have been possible to resolve the unclear situation at Helsinki Airport for too long. When mistakes are made, they must be resolved and learned from them. The situation at Helsinki Airport was corrected. The targeting of enterprise subsidies is examined and solutions are sought at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. There are still challenges in accessing protective equipment and healthcare equipment, not only in Finland but also in many other countries, but solutions are also being sought for this whole. It is quite certain that mistakes will also be made in the future. This is because not everything is known and can or can be predicted. People also fail and make mistakes for human reasons. It is extremely important that we collect the experience of this crisis. Lessons need to be learnt from the crisis and, once the acute situation subsides, the functioning of our central government, cooperation between different authorities and national preparedness for emergency situations need to be carefully assessed. I can already say from experience to date that we have lacked the instruments of crisis that we have had to create along the way with a much too busy preparation schedule. Our preparedness legislation must be carefully assessed and reformed in cooperation with all parliamentary parties. The legislation as a whole should be revised from a precautionary point of view in order to make us more prepared for possible crises in the future. Mr President! “If we don’t know for sure how to go, let’s assume that everyone will be fine. “ These words of President Mauno Koivisto are also well suited to this moment. There is an exceptionally high degree of uncertainty about the prospects for the future. We're walking in the fog, and it's hard for us to see before us. Yet we must move forward and trust that we will find a way out of the crisis together. As a nation, we have survived many trials throughout history. We're gonna get through this, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u3	The answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u4	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Marin, for that reply. You listed where everything has been successful, and yes, the big picture has been successful. The infections have been brought under control, and for that, thank you very much to all Finns: policemen, nurses, doctors, everyone who has contributed to the card that this result has been achieved. But it is just as clear that, in addition to this big picture, there have been clear mistakes in the operational management of the crisis — such as airport, protective equipment, corporate subsidies — and these are not just minor issues. That is why it is important for us to go through these here today – let us go through it so that we can move forward, so that we can move on with national consensus again. For example, tens of thousands of healthcare professionals are forced to work with risk groups without having proper protective equipment, even though this has been discussed for weeks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u5	Mr President! Epidemics and restrictive measures cause many kinds of damage to the economy and to people. However, the crisis has also raised a number of structural problems and vulnerabilities which it is important to address in order to be more ready next time. Examples include the long supply and production chains made possible by free trade in many industries and, for example, the complete dependence of agriculture on foreign labour. On the other hand, the crisis has also had undeniable positive effects. Carbon dioxide emissions have fallen dramatically as industry and transport have slowed down in China and India. Air transport has halved globally. So the question is: is it the government's aim to return to the starting point in all respects or to learn from mistakes and also to stick to the positive things that have been produced by the pandemic? The solution is quite simple: to produce as much as possible of the things we need here, with the domestic workforce.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u6	Mr President! Thank you, Prime Minister, for the announcement. After all, the big question is how from now on, and it pointed it out. In addition to the hybrid strategy, we could also use the term ‘new norm’ as used by the German Minister for Economic Affairs17.4. There are six points: The first is the gradual and safe opening up of society. Secondly, some of the restrictions are maintained, i.e. large public events, for example, must not yet be organised. Thirdly, let us continue with the good hygiene practices that have now been adopted as a new standard, such as protection plexes, intensive hand hygiene, control and control of coughing and fluttering, distances to other people and so on. Fourthly, extensive testing, isolation of infected carriers, tracing and testing their contacts. Fifthly, maintaining good capacity in hospitals. Sixthly, invest resources in vaccine and drug research.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u7	Mr President! Six weeks and one day ago, in this Chamber, we discussed the introduction of the preparedness law for the first time in Finnish history, the introduction of such a preparedness law, and I said in the centre’s group speech that there is an invisible and unknown enemy among us, but together we will survive and manage. Now, after six weeks, when Finland has made progress with the strategy that the most important thing is to take care of people's health and that as few Finns as possible fall ill or die from this corona, Finland as a whole has managed to survive as one of the best nations in the world with this disease and we have been afraid with less. However, as the Prime Minister said, the danger is not over, and every Finn, young and old, is still required to be patient and to follow instructions and regulations. It has been justified, President, that Finnish companies have been supported very quickly and extensively in order to prevent mass unemployment and the wave of bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u8	Mr President! The Christian Democrats have, as a general rule, supported the government in dealing with the acute crisis, but of course we have raised the issue of the purchase of protective equipment or the distribution of business subsidies. Particularly critically, we need to address shortcomings that have a direct impact on people's lives and health. Nursing unions have signalled that corona - related instructions on the use of protective equipment are still confusing in some places and the deficiencies are great in the field. So there is a shortage of protective equipment that is currently being instructed to wear raincoats and even tubing as protective equipment. I would have liked to ask the government: while at the same time the private side has offered its assistance, for example, in increasing the testing capacity and also in these protective equipment, does the government now have an ideological reason, which is why we cannot take it in such a situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u9	Mr President! Thank you to the Prime Minister for the announcement and thank you to the whole government for the difficult but necessary decisions you have taken so far so well in the midst of this crisis. This situation is heavy for all of us, but for others it is heavier than for others. It is now particularly heavy for children living in homes where there is no safe place for them to live, in homes where drugs are used or where violence is present. It is up to us all to ensure that every child has the right to safety also in the midst of exceptional circumstances. The solutions that the government has made, for example, to secure people’s livelihoods in these situations are invaluable. We must support entrepreneurs, laid-off people, the unemployed to survive so that the poverty of families with children does not increase. It is important that the government is committed to implementing a programme of measures for children and young people, which will then seek to bridge the gap that is currently arising in, for example, distance education. However, I would like to ask and make sure of the government: does the Finnish Government take care of each child as well as it is possible in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u10	Mr President! Thank you for your quick reply. — I think Mr Essayah asked a very important question. So in order to get us out of here, all the forces of society must be put at the same table to work in the same direction. I cannot understand the fact that once the government has told me that your strategy is to test, trace, isolate — which is, in fact, exactly the same thing we have presented — why weeks have gone by and still not as much as there is capacity to test. The private sector has been offering assistance all along. Why do you not take it, or do you now promise to take it so that we have all the power of society? And so does this tracking: it needs to be done and then isolated. Then this strategy will work. Then we can get Finland to open up safely, get back to everyday life and get the wheels running in the economy so that this does not become a huge human and economic disaster.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u11	Mr President! During the interest-rate crisis, decisions have been taken quickly and in a situation that has never existed before. There will also be mistakes. Making mistakes is human, but you have to learn from them. Finland has been better prepared than many other countries, but clearly previous contingency plans and the content of preparedness stocks have not been prepared for such a crisis, neither in Finland nor elsewhere. In view of all this, Finland has at least so far been very successful in dealing with the corona crisis compared to other countries. The restrictive measures proposed by the government and adopted unanimously by us in Parliament seem to have been reasonably striking in terms of time and quantity, at least at the moment. Many thanks go to all Finns who have followed the instructions quite conscientiously and thus cared for their own health and the health of others. Now that the experts are consulted, I hope that some restrictive measures can also begin to be dismantled.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u12	President! Someone said the other day that a huge number of virologists have appeared in Finland during the pandemic, who have certain views. I am not a virologist, but all my knowledge of the subject is based on what I have heard from experts. However, decision-makers cannot postpone responsibility to experts or hide behind them, and there are at least two reasons for this: firstly, the situation is new, and even medical experts have very different assessments of how the situation develops and what should be done. Secondly, it is not quite clear what is being done: to minimise the number of infections and deaths or to minimise the economic and social damage caused by restrictive measures? It is difficult to define the best means if the objective is not defined. The aim is for policy makers, not experts. My question is: what is the government's objective and strategy?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u13	Irade the Talman! We must congratulate the government on a well-managed crisis so far. Of course, mistakes have been made, as the Prime Minister acknowledged, but above all we must be glad that the number of cases has remained under control and that the number of deaths has remained under control. That is an extremely fine thing, and we should all be grateful for that. In all respects, Finnish society has been very flexible in this crisis situation. The school has demonstrated its ability, the curriculum has shown its ability. Both students and teachers have shouldered great responsibility and have managed well to do so. However, there is reason to hope that schools will be brought into normal order as quickly as possible. There has also been flexibility in working hours and places in the workplace, new ways of working and new means of communication have been found. These are all good lessons to the point when we get out of this, to the exit phase, because then all these flexibilitys must also be included in that toolbox. I would like to ask the Minister for Labour: The Government Programme has a good record of local agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u14	Mr President! In my view, the government has succeeded well in managing the pandemic, as long as the restrictions are not lifted too quickly. We must now consider whether it is advisable to open schools for two weeks when teachers do not want to do so. I don't think so. Direct aid has been directed at companies, which is a good thing, although it has not always gone to the right place. Individual entrepreneurs with more than 100,000 have received no more than EUR 2000 and some EUR 700 unemployment benefit. However, it does not pay leasing fees, rents, etc. for taxi companies, hairdressers, masseuses and many others. Is there any support planned for them by the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u15	Mr President! When this corona crisis came to an end, we were faced with a situation in which we had to make rapid decisions, and then we lived in the midst of uncertainty, as we saw, and it is clear that, in such a situation, every step does not hit the plank, and, as the Prime Minister also said, mistakes have happened, but we must see what the overall situation is here. The overall situation is that this strategy, which has been to prevent and slow down the government, to secure the capacity of health care and to protect groups at risk, has now clearly been successful.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u18	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that the government has acted with determination and humility, and I believe that this should continue to be the case. I am sure that each of us dreams of a time without interest, of meeting close ones, having family parties, having coffee with coworkers and so on. I myself have been thinking particularly much recently about the mental well-being of older people and also about the fact that, now that this crisis is taking a long time, how their mental capacity can withstand the fact that, according to this guidance, we are generally at home and avoid social contacts. That is why I would like to ask the government, or at least I hope, that when these restrictions start to be reconsidered, we would also wonder whether this 70-year categorical age limit is absolutely necessary in the event of a prolonged corona crisis, that there could be some kind of softening and more individual solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u19	Mr President! It has become clear many times during the crisis that our security of supply and preparedness are not as good as they could be. It is not so much a matter of mistakes made by the current government, but, for example, it is possible to blame all parties that have ruled over a decade, others more and others less. In many cases, the crisis shows us that there are a lot of vital issues that we should be better able to deal with, such as the protective equipment, medicines, food supply, labour force, epidemics and public health skills in state institutions and so on. The Prime Minister has previously suggested that there is a need to improve security of supply, and he has just again admitted that mistakes have been made, but it is not enough to say it out loud, but we should also look critically at the deeper mistakes that have been made over the years, not just these operational problems that have arisen from the lack of time. So I ask the Prime Minister whether the government is prepared to take concrete decisions to transfer both production and decision-making powers back to Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u20	Mr President! I'd like to ask you about this opening of schools. After all, we do not now have complete information on what closing or opening schools would mean for the spread of the virus — actually we do not have complete information — and you are now wondering whether schools should be opened. Personally, I do not think that you should make that decision yet. Take another look for a while, because it has not been two weeks since Uusimaa was opened — this week comes to pass — and it usually takes two weeks of cycle, and it allows an assessment of how the disease is moving. And when you think about it, as I understand it, perhaps we are about to open up, I would also like you to take the option of not opening up, but investing especially in those children who are now unwell. Many localities have downgraded student care and the activities of school psychologists and also the activities of school assistants. In particular, we would now invest in these families, intensive care, intensive care, and meet all the children in one way or another and continue until the summer leave at school.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u21	Mr President! The Prime Minister said that mistakes have been made and mistakes have to be learned. That's vertebrate. It tells us of the Prime Minister's ability to look at the world very honestly, and that is exactly what we need at this time. This situation in Finland is as good as it is at the moment, because Finland as a whole, supported by the Prime Minister and as an example, has wanted to cooperate. Here in Parliament, the Prime Minister has included the opposition so that the opposition has been constantly informed. Much has been said about the information to ordinary citizens, and when you look at the latest figures from the Helsingin Sanomat on how ordinary people look at government action, 84% of the people are satisfied with the activities of Prime Minister Sanna Marin. These are huge figures, if you compare the fact that 85 per cent of Sauli Niinistö’s activities, for example, are satisfied,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u22	Mr President! Indeed, this crisis has demonstrated in concrete terms how closely intertwined health, safety and the economy are. For all of these reasons, it is essential that society should be able to be opened up as soon as possible, gradually and in a controlled manner. At the same time, we need to move our eyes a little further into that reconstruction phase. So I ask the government: how do we ensure that Finland is a more competitive and attractive investment destination at a time when companies around the world are looking with new eyes at their production chains and many investments are perhaps looking for a new home in Europe and hopefully also in Finland? So how do we ensure that, in particular, knowledge, a smooth labour market and well-functioning transport and communications connections across Finland are also in order in that new situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u23	Mr President! Due to the Koronavirus, we are also living in an exceptionally challenging time for decision-makers. There is no one right solution to the problem before a reliable vaccine arrives, and it seems that there is not going to be one this year at least. By opening up society, however, decision-makers risk increasing infections and mortality. If, on the other hand, we keep Finland closed until the vaccine arrives, we will be bankrupt. Moreover, the consequences for humans of keeping closed may actually outweigh the problems of the corona. The immobility of older people at risk can make many unable to move even after the crisis. Entrepreneurs who have gone bankrupt are powerless to try again. This list is endless. Opening up will be an elevator store where the capacity of health care, especially intensive care, will always have to be loosened and tightened. Mr President! I would like to thank Prime Minister Marin for his intention to phase out restrictive measures and at the same time ask whether you could consider, for example, the possibility of opening terraces or diners in May for restaurants suffering from corona, provided that safety regulations, such as safety intervals and table catering, are in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u24	Mr President! After all, at this early stage of crisis management, Finland has had broad national consensus on the implementation of these restrictive measures, and Finns have done them well. It describes the strength of Finnish society from the health system to schools, homes and so on. We are very well placed to succeed now, too, in this further phase of the crisis, as the more politically difficult times begin. In other words, there must be a proper strategy, the machinery must work, and we must be able to find a recipe that minimises social, economic and health damage. In fact, it's only the beginning of a very difficult phase. That is why, in words of encouragement, I would like to make a few points to the government which should be sharpened: We need a clearer picture of the situation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has pointed this out in recent weeks. We must act in a structured way so that the plan is visible to everyone, in writing, not just in someone's head. We need to lead a whole society in which companies, scientific communities, organisations are involved in seeking solutions, not just in the silo of government. We need to identify the problems in advance, not afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u25	Prime Minister Marin, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u26	Mr President! There was a question here about the government's objective, Mr Halla-aho asked about this. Our objective has been, and still is, to prevent the progression of the disease, to safeguard the carrying capacity of our health care and to protect people from risk groups. Now we are trying to open up these restrictive measures gradually and with great control and move again towards normal life. This is certainly not entirely possible, and we will have to learn to live with this virus, but it is good to go towards it. As part of this strategy change, it is essential now to get this set of protective equipment under control. This is a challenge: the international market is challenging, not only for Finland but also for other countries. We need domestic production, and we are working hard on this, but there are also challenges: getting production lines in the country, getting material in the country, getting certification in order and ensuring that all the equipment that is being done here is also suitable for hospital use. Solutions are being sought, but this needs to be put in order, and I am carrying this protective equipment situation and the amounts that we will need, yes, a great deal of concern, and that is what the government is actively looking for. We also need clear guidelines. That is quite clear, and it was called for here. When we move away from restrictive measures, we need clearer and more specific guidance for people on how to act in this situation. We need instructions for beaches, camp keeping, libraries, museums, individuals. We need guidance for people because we are a people who believe in the rules and if something is not included, then that guidance is called for. This is quite clear that this must be done. Congressman Purra asked about security of supply: I agree with that. We need to raise the level of our security of supply and our level of preparedness, and that requires that we have domestic food production, we have domestic protective equipment production, we have domestic production for many of the things that are critical to society. I fully agree with that. Mrs Packalén asked about the situation in restaurants: of course, if possible, the government will try to move on to a more normal situation, but we will listen with a very sensitive ear to the experts' assessments and make decisions on the basis of them. But, of course, our objective is that our business life should again function in a normal way. Congressman Häkkänen asked me and gave me some tips on this exit strategy. We now have a working group led by Martti Hetemäe, which will make a plan for the government by 1.5. on the way in which these restrictive measures will be opened up in a controlled and timely manner, and all that needs to be taken into account here as a whole. On this basis, the Government will hold negotiations 3.5. We have also set up an expert panel, a scientific panel, to support this work. The Hetemäki Task Force will not only draw up this exit plan but also a reconstruction plan, and here, of course, the experts and scientists are represented.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u27	Mr President! Today's newspapers had an interesting comparison of the treatment of New Zealand and Finland's pandemic. New Zealand has worked even more ambitiously — and, of course, geographical conditions have made it easier — and has achieved exemplary results, as Finland has done under European conditions. With reference to this new strategy, the review of the strategy, the number of tests had been achieved in New Zealand with less than 8,000 tests per day. The aim of the Finnish strategy is already at a level of 10,000, and the Committee on Budgets, for example, encouraged it to implement it swiftly. I think now would be a good time to tell you how long it will take. It must be remembered that the introduction of the private sector to increase this capacity is possible even directly under the Emergency Act, and it would also be important to find such mobile testing possibilities that would then be easily available at the point when the number of tests is multiple compared to the current one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u28	Mr President! Thank you to the Prime Minister for his opening remarks and for his good answers afterwards. Indeed, Finland has done a good job in managing the Korona crisis under the leadership of the government in that we are in a better situation and, in fact, with some minor limitations than in many countries, that is, we were on the move at the right time and with sufficient courage. This hybrid line, described here, which combines sufficient restrictions on testing, tracing and isolation, is precisely the way to the new normal — or it is the new normal thing that Mr Lindén described here — and the measures are, in themselves, exactly what is certainly needed. Perhaps in support of this general strategy debate it would be good for us to have a document, the Finnish Corona Strategy, which would then be updated according to expert knowledge, as has been said here. It is as if it would support this debate and structure it better. I would like to thank the government in particular for two fine lines: one is this scientific panel, which the Prime Minister acknowledged, and the other is the development of this open-minded mobile application;
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u29	Mr President! It is important that we now discuss the treatment of the corona epidemic. We must remember that both at home and globally, both the epidemic itself and the restrictive measures are hitting those groups that are already in a fragile position in principle. Here I raised the question a couple of weeks ago that Kela’s offices are closed in the capital region, and now the situation really seems to be that the number of customers in municipal social work has risen dramatically and people have certainly not received the service they need. I hope that more attention will be paid to this in the future. Perhaps Mr Risiko's speech on the dismantling of restrictive measures was somewhat surprised, and I feel that it is also a bit lost in the public debate. After all, it is a legal and legal process. We must constantly assess whether there is a need for further restrictive measures — that is what this is basically about. If there are no grounds, they must be dismantled.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u30	Mr President! When the corona crisis began, we were assured that this virus did not concern us. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u32	Prime Minister, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u33	Mr President! There must be some misunderstandings here. The government hasn't said this isn't about us. Of course, we have always gone through the current disease situation, and when there have been no cases of disease in Finland, we have said that there have not yet been any cases of disease in Finland or one case of disease in Finland. But we too must be prepared to see that the disease in Finland will become more common. But it has not been said that this is not going to apply to us, but, of course, we have always been told the up-to-date situation of the disease, the knowledge we have. As far as Helsinki Airport is concerned, I think I was right here in front of Parliament to say that there has been a mistake, that the government is responsible for this and that it should have acted faster and better. I think that at the time I took a stand on this and said that we should have done better. With regard to protective equipment, I have said what is true: In some municipalities, in some medical districts, the level of preparedness has not been the same as it should have been in the pandemic plan. But it is clear that this level of equipment should be much higher. In a situation like this,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u34	Representative Sarkomaa, followed by Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u35	Mr President! In a difficult crisis, the nation must always cooperate, but it is quite clear that how we get out of this crisis is very strongly influenced by how the government is able to act. When Minister Pekonen appointed his official to investigate why the Minister — that is, Mr Pekonen himself — does not know his responsibilities in matters vital to the survival of the corona epidemic, it was a sign that management is not in order. It was a sign that the lesson had not yet been learned. When the whole of Finland cried out for a shortage of protective equipment and the nurses even had to use garbage bags as their protectors, it would have been expected that the acquisition of protective equipment would have been the key focus of the Minister's attention when you are working, including that joint procurement of the EU. But this was not the case. Minister Pekonen did not even know he was responsible. And even in the report you made with the official, there was not one person responsible for this error, even though it is obvious: the Minister will answer. Mr Marin, this was not the first time that your government's lauded course of action on unclear responsibilities caused a serious error.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u36	Mr President! Several speakers have asked whether there is a need to look at security of supply. I carry the same concern as the people who ask. Yes, the question of security of supply also needs to be looked at from the point of view we have experienced over the last few months, that is, a global pandemic or other factor that is going to paralyse all the markets so that certain things are not brought here. There are other risk factors that need to be further analysed. This security of supply is based on a government policy, a decision of principle, from 18 C.E. That decision should now be re-examined as we learn from this. That is to say, I will start the work immediately when we get to a little looser waters from this crisis and learn what we lack now. It is not worth starting to clean up every government 20 years back, whether it is right or wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u39	Representative Elomaa, and then Minister Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u40	Mr President! The debate on security of supply is now extremely topical. Finland must learn lessons and invest in domestic agriculture and definitely also in industrial production. We'd rather do greener here than order from China. At the same time, quality and jobs will be created. Adequate supplies of health care equipment and access to Finnish food at home tables must be better secured than at present. Food production must not be this vulnerable to disturbances, as we have seen in the case of seasonal workers. Finland now needs a clear new strategy for security that will ensure that our country functions even in the midst of crises. I propose that this work be put into practice right now and that all parliamentary parties be involved so that the reform work does not go into the next elections. I would like to hear more from the Prime Minister and other ministers, although you have already said something about this. And yet: Domestic production in many areas is vital. The issues of the recession of the 1990s — I hope that the government will be very familiar with it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u41	Mr President! Many Members of this House have referred to the need to prepare themselves in this debate. I would like to remind you of what we have done together to prepare for the epidemic. Preparedness is all the action we take to ensure the continuity of society’s vital functions, and we started preparing for the coronavirus as soon as the new virus began to spread and knowledge of it reached experts. Our preparations have been based on a national pandemic plan, and the aim of the plan is to limit the harm to the health of the population caused by a possible pandemic and to ensure the continuity of society's activities as far as possible. Only one part of the pandemic plan concerns material preparation and protective equipment. I share Mr Purra's view that these plans must also be updated immediately in this regard. In order to acquire protective equipment and create a situational picture, we have now managed to organise ourselves more strongly, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u44	Mr President, värderade talman! Tack vare regeringens åtgärder är coronasituationen i Finland i jämförelse med många andra länder mycket bra. Tack för det. Trots det är jag orolig framför allt för barnens och fabillionnas vämmående. Då den icke-brådskande vården körts ner har också besöken på ödra- och Barnrådgivningarna minskat med nästan älften i förhållande till det normala. Det är mycket oroveckande. De utebrivna besöken på Barnrådgivningarna har lett till att bland you give vaccintäckningsgraden har minskat.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u45	Mr President! Even though the fight against the corona crisis has largely been successful, we must not forget that 200 Finns have died of this disease, and unfortunately, even if we do everything we can, there are likely to be more deaths. I agree with Mr Vehviläinen's assessment that very difficult situations have arisen, especially in older people with a spouse or other close relatives in institutional or hospital care. It is also very painful to arrange funerals when only a few people can be escorted there. We now need to look at how we can deal with this situation. President! I do not think that in this debate on opening schools we should forget that not all families are doing well and not all parents are able to organise that distance education. The Centre considers that for each child and young person there must be some checking before the summer to see the condition of the home. This, too, must be dealt with on the terms of the weakest. But, President, I would now like to ask the ministers responsible for the economy, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs: How do you see this re-launching of the economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u46	Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen, followed by Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u47	Mr President! Among other things, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has expressed its concern about the differences in the application of the exemption law across Finland. Powers under the Act of Preparedness may be exercised only if the situation is not manageable by the authority's regular powers. Unfortunately, some municipalities and regions have been shutting down services and deciding on customers without even considering whether this is necessary from the point of view of the purpose of the Emergency Act. For example, family carers, residents of the home who are mentally ill and those with mental disabilities and those who need rehabilitation have been left without the support they need in many places. I would ask the government: could the municipalities and joint municipal authorities be given even better guidance in this matter as a matter of urgency, because it is inhumane and will be very expensive in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u48	Mr President! This question by Mrs Kurvise on the economy and, in fact, on what Mrs Halla-aho pointed out a little earlier in the speeches: Of course, the most important thing for industry now is the prospect of how long this will last, and this also involves the concern of many representatives about how we can live with these restrictions and perhaps gradually dismantle them if it is possible to do so in health terms. On the other hand, we must also be prepared to allow them to be tightened up at some point. Everything depends on how the virus develops and progresses before we have the vaccine, and this is also a reason for Finns to remember and understand. Of course, as soon as the restrictions are lifted, they must be able to be dismantled, but we must be prepared to have new ones. I think that the European and Finnish industries will hopefully also be able to come closer to home regions now, and in that, Finland must be competitive that industry and subcontracting chains will return to this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u49	Mr President! This information is particularly important in the management and decisions of this kind of crisis and in the measures we choose. Now the Prime Minister has said that Finland is following a hybrid strategy. Can we get a more detailed description of this hybrid strategy on Sunday? Is the work of the working group now being carried out under the direction of Hetemäe, the point where we get a description of this strategy, for example, from 5 to 10 pages, and the assessment of how we will act in Finland, for example, within a year? It is very important that this weekend the Prime Minister stressed the transparency of information in this working group work, and it is very valuable that this statement – hopefully – will guide all the work in the future. It is extremely important for Parliament to have an updated picture of the situation, and on the basis of international research. It would be valuable if we could, on a weekly basis, gather the information provided by the latest research at the government and Parliament's disposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u50	Mr President! Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has just referred to the fact that the corona situation is different in different parts of Finland, and that concerns me as well. Fortunately, we have municipalities and regions in Finland where there are very few infections, and if there are any, the infection chains are in place and known. Instead, there is a much worse situation here in my own hometown of Helsinki: there are many infections here, and for a long time there have been no known transmission chains. I would like to ask Prime Minister Marin: is there any serious consideration in the government of the possibility that, when these restrictions are lifted in due course, they will be abandoned at different levels, at different times in different parts of Finland, so that special attention will be paid to whether the supply chains are in place in the region? I wish something like this would be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u51	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation is not over yet, the danger is not over yet — it has been predicted somewhere that even September would be the peak of disease, so we really need to be prepared for a long time to come. Ministers, what do you think: Tests are quite important, and if, or when a person has a corona, antibodies become in the body, from which it can be said that a person has had it, would it not be quite important to carry out such antibody tests? Are you prepared to carry out antibody tests for all Finns, because that would already reduce costs, because we would know who has been sick and who is not, who can safely operate in the old people's homes and elsewhere? These old-age deaths are serious. Another question I would like to ask: has the government considered whether the government is prepared to change its government programme because of this interest rate, because it is clear now that we need to focus on the well-being of Finns and Finland that everything is going better? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u52	Mr President! As Mr Orpo said, the government has managed health protection successfully. The administration has not immediately turned into a crisis organisation, but fortunately the gaps in information have not prevented good development and there would be no more protection. Mr President! One political mistake has been made, but this hall did it together when together we decided to support companies with aid for the development of Business Finland and Ely. The Coalition Party even took credit for this, and the True Finns raised hundreds of millions more in their protests, arguing that it is development aid that is now needed. But even this mistake is now being corrected, and the most important thing is that the government's common objective of securing jobs is clear. Now, unlike in the 1990s, people and jobs have been saved in advance, and not afterwards banks and their owners, when bankruptcy has already taken place. And when it comes to learning about mistakes, I think that the most important thing is to learn from the big mistakes that have been made in previous economic crises and, of course, from the mistakes that always happen by force.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u53	Before such an inconspicuous exchange of people, I will give the floor to the representatives of Huttunen and Orpo and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u54	Mr President! I always try to think that not so much bad that something good is not, and I want to believe that this corona and the new practices that it has brought us will have some permanent good practices. One thing that is clear is that a decentralized society is a strength today. For example, the fact that we have government agencies all over the country and people can work remotely from home has clearly proved to be a good new practice. I would therefore like to ask the government: I know that regionalisation issues are being prepared in several ministries, but is this corona giving a new wind and a new impetus, that these issues can finally be brought to the end and that society can be more decentralised?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u55	Mr President! It is in itself and very good that it is admitted that mistakes have been made, but I also hope that it will be learned from it that, if here in Parliament and in society for weeks attention is paid to certain matters, the government will listen. It's all about doing things together to listen. After weeks of talking about these protective equipment and testing, hopefully in the spirit of cooperation in the future, this collaboration will be mutual. And when you ask, that's really the responsibility of the ministers. You cannot answer that question by looking at another minister. So, of course, it would be important for the Minister to recognise his own responsibilities and to act within that framework. But now that we look forward — because that is all that matters now that we can get out of this quickly — there are two things that may come over the others at the moment: The first is that you should now address this issue of testing. Take that private sector help and raise it to over 10,000 tomorrow. The second point is these subsidies. There are not yet any subsidies that could hit that company's cash register. Business Finland and Ely had a good start,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u56	Mr Räsänen, and then the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u57	Mr President! Interest recommendations protect people over 70 but at the same time deprive them of the opportunity to spend time with their loved ones. It is heartbreaking, though, that a person living in a nursing home has to live his last months apart from an elderly mate, for example. Of course, the phone and Internet connections make it possible to communicate, but they do not replace that face-to-face closeness. In order to ensure safe encounters, family members should be provided with access to interest rate tests and also to these antibody tests at a time when they are reliable. Adequate protective equipment could also give family members the opportunity to visit older people. This loneliness is already a serious problem for the elderly, but now it is getting worse at this time. At the same time, I would like to ask whether the government could consider a recommendation such as Germany and many other countries on facial masks in public places, shops and public transport,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u58	Prime Minister, followed by Minister Kiuru. And now, at this point, ask again for answers. Recent responses will be zeroed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u59	Mr President! Mr Orpo referred here in a few speeches to the fact that we have been talking about problems. We have been talking for a long time about the problems that we have, and I know that this debate has taken place, and that is what the government has been doing. But talking about problems is not the same as finding solutions, and I can assure you that the government has been looking for solutions to these problems for at least as long as these problems have been discussed. But until those solutions are ready, of course, the situation is not what would be desirable. The production line does not fly here from the rest of the world because we talk about it in this Chamber every day of the week. Materials don't fly to this country, even if we talk about it in this room every day of the week. These issues are not solved by the fact that we are talking about problems. They will only be resolved if we solve these problems, and I can assure you that this is what the government will do as best it can. With regard to seasonal workers, I would like to say that we will return to this issue. Next week, the government will be going through this situation. We have been through this in the past, but we know that we are facing challenges, for example, because Ukraine has decided that they will not allow seasonal workers to leave there, so we will be going through this situation carefully next week. I can see that there is one big risk here that we need to be able to solve so that we have food production in Finland. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u60	Mr President! I am going to start testing now, but I will be happy to comment later on the epidemiological situation and also on the potential future challenges of living with restrictions. First of all, on this test: There is no disagreement in this House that we are not all on the line that the hybrid strategy chosen by the government, which is based in particular on testing, tracing, isolation and treatment, is not one of the most important issues in the future where we will deal with and manage this epidemic. That is exactly what we agree on. We also agree that with public resources alone we will not be able to overcome this challenge. We also need the help of the private side. For some reason, there is a strong belief in this House that this testing capacity will be increased by public resources alone. This is not the case, because we have already had a private operator involved in this in the first place — already in the first place. In this updated test strategy, which has been published, it is precisely that the increase in capacity to 10,000 will be done so that if we could reach 7,000 these public resources and get at least 3000 from private fields.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u61	Mr President! It is very good that now the government's actions have worked and acted and that these restrictive measures, which are challenging both economically and for the well-being of many Finns, have achieved their goals. Testing in relation to this hybrid strategy is indeed a key issue. I would like to ask what has not yet been mentioned here: now that it has come to the knowledge that one of the challenges of preparing domestic tests has been to ensure that quality is guaranteed at an adequate level, and this has also been stated publicly, is there an assessment of the possible time frame for resolving this now? I understand.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u62	Mr. Speaker! The government has failed in its corona strategy. Initially, those from Italy and Austria in the pandemic area, the epidemic area, should have been tested and placed in controlled quarantine. On the other hand, restrictions should have been the most severe in the early stages of the epidemic. The Finns of Peru only represented allowing pharmacies and shops to be open when there were less than 200 infections. If the Finns of Finland had acted in the same way, the situation would now be similar to that in New Zealand, where the corona virus has been defeated and can be opened up to society. The government’s model has been to slow down instead of repression, and the risk is that with the passing of time the number of infections will increase and then it may eventually be the same as in Sweden. However, Sweden did not only have to close the economy in this way. The strategy is therefore not particularly successful.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u63	Mr President! In March, fast braking was obviously the only right solution, otherwise the intensive care facilities could have run out — which, fortunately, we avoided, and thanks are due to all Finns. The decisions were made here together, the implementation of the responsibility of the government. Now we move on to the second phase of the crisis. It is now more difficult but more important to set a clear target. My ten - year - old asked me yesterday at the dinner table if we were going to try to reduce or increase the infection. Mr President, I would like to know that too. If we do not know that here, we cannot make the right decisions about how spring and summer should live in Finland. Mika Salminen, Director of THL, says in today's Helsingin Sanomat that the current stagnation of the epidemic is a ‘very poor alternative’. According to her,‘the restrictions are unnecessary if the
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u64	Mr President! It's good to be back to normal in the school world. I have every confidence in the health authorities as to what is the right time for schoolchildren to return to school. On the other hand, I understand the concern of teachers and their trade unions as to what this return to school means for those teachers who are at risk. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Education: how can the safety of teachers in these high-risk groups be safeguarded so that returning to school would be a good thing for everyone?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u65	Mr President! Clearly, we have introduced the right means at the right time so far, since the disease is well controlled internationally.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u68	Mr President! It is extremely important to thank the heroes of everyday life who are currently keeping the wheels of this country rolling, and to give hope to those families whose daily lives have now changed in many ways, and also to ensure that no one is left alone or without the help they need in this crisis. This crisis, too, must be handled fairly and save people first and foremost. After all, we cannot afford to repeat the mistakes of the recession of the 1990s. The continuity of the welfare state must be ensured in all circumstances and its strength must be measured precisely in such difficult times. While some things, such as business subsidies, have certainly not gone according to the manual and there is enough to learn from all of us, we can still thank the government for quickly creating subsidies for entrepreneurs, businesses, the unemployed, laid-off and parents of small schoolchildren. I am sure that knowledge-based management and decision-making will best help us overcome the economic and human challenges posed by the corona crisis. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u69	Mr President! In fact, in this debate, I would like to emphasise the welfare of the mind, which is related to the management of the corona crisis. Studies show that quarantine causes confusion, anger, post-traumatic symptoms and anxiety. In fact, when calls have been made to the service phones of the organizations, the general question of corona appeared at the beginning of March, but at the end of March the distress of older people began to appear, but now on the April side there have been considerably fewer calls, but people are much more anxious than in the early days. That is why it is extremely important that we are able to respond to the fear people have of their daily lives. It has to do with loneliness, it has to do with livelihood, it has to do with the future. Now that the government is considering the post-corona measures, it would be extremely important not to compromise the implementation of the mental health strategy, but rather to strengthen it. We are fighting through cooperation between both health and the economy,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u70	Mr President! Much has been said about this herd shelter, and at times the government has denied that the herd shelter is not wanted. As a nurse, I wonder about this sort of discussion about this herd shelter, because the herd shelter will be reached sooner or later — it will be achieved either by illness or by vaccine. That is quite clear. After all, it can take a long time to get the vaccine. Although some promising results have already been presented by the media, but what that fact is, we do not know. It could take a year. It could take another two years. Now that we are going to take these restrictive measures out, of course, we must consider how we are going to do it so that we have the situation under control until that vaccine arrives. And it is wise also to reflect, as Mrs Filatov here has just said, on the mental health of people, psyche, their anxiety, the loneliness of the elderly. I understand that it is very difficult to take these exit measures and to think about the stage at which these restrictions will be lifted.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u71	Congressman Satonen, and after him the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u72	Mr President! The actual control of the disease has so far been successful, thanks to the Finnish people and thanks in that sense to the right solutions, but at the same time this economic price is beginning to be enormous. The Central Chamber of Commerce calculated that this economic closure will cost 1.2 billion a week and, as we know about the recession in the 1990s, it will not only be an economy but will also lead to a huge human price. It seems inevitable that there will be a lot of bankruptcies, unemployment and difficulties in living, which will then be reflected in the mental side and will also bring big things to health. In addition, we have a lot of loneliness and other things to which reference has already been made. The question now arises as to whether we are close to the point that the human price for further restrictions is higher than the fact that these restrictions are gradually being phased out. I think this is something we need to think about, and I hope that a solution can be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u73	Prime Minister, followed by Minister Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u74	Mr President! Firstly, this international comparison, comparing countries with each other and seeing who has succeeded and who has failed: I personally have not wanted to go into such an assessment, because different situations in different countries are different and there are different factors in the background that affect the progression of the disease. For example, when comparing New Zealand and Finland, it should be borne in mind that Europe has been one of the world’s outbreaks of disease. There have been a lot of cases here, and it will inevitably be seen in Finland. So this comparison is, in my view, infertile. As far as this herd immunity is concerned, the government has never sought that as many Finns as possible suffer from this disease. We have sought to prevent the progression of the disease, to safeguard the carrying capacity of health care and to protect people at risk. This has been the goal of the government, and it is still. With regard to the strategy: Mr Mykkänen asked about this strategy. I have answered this several times in the information that has been kept for the parliamentary groups, and I would actually like to ask: how do the strategies of the government and the coalition differ from each other?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u77	Now Minister Andersson, followed by Mr Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u78	Mr President! As the Prime Minister has well said in several speeches, all the decisions taken in relation to these restrictive measures have always been based on a medical assessment and an assessment by health authorities of this epidemic situation and on the type of measures needed to manage the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u79	Mr President! Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Our objective, which was also published last week as a small pamphlet, is that we can safely open up society, and it is based on our putting this disease at a level where the chains of infection are caught. Then it must be kept at a controlled level and the testing in relation to those levels of epidemic spread must be sufficient. A week ago, at the Prime Minister's last information conference, I assumed that this was our common goal, and I actually asked about the intermediate objectives that if this were to be done, what should be the government's target for the number of tests to be carried out in two weeks' time, a month's time, which should be measured in terms of the objective of access to protective equipment, because it has to do with ensuring that this does not spread in old people's homes, that there is adequate protective equipment there, and that home visits have protective equipment, whether they can be guaranteed in restaurants, perhaps for teachers. We did not get the answers, but today I asked about this main objective because THL's Salminen and also STM's Chief of Staff Varhila at the A-Studio the day before yesterday gave a pretty direct impression,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u80	Mr President! My first thanks to the government for dealing with this crisis in a very difficult situation. As the Prime Minister said in his introductory speech, mistakes have also been made along the way, but I do not know how to put them on the back of the government. In fact, I believe that this whole civilian crisis management system should be reformed once this crisis has been resolved. It is the case that it is very difficult for such a matrix organization to lead crises. I hope that this Chamber will be able to take those decisions together in due course. Now, according to experts' views, society must be opened up cautiously and, at the same time, it must be ensured that companies will be adequately supported. I personally hope and urge the government to reflect on the so-called free ways in which companies can be supported to show that they receive the cash flow, such as the distance selling of restaurants and breweries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u81	Representative Meri, followed by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u82	Mr President! In the previous speech, you noticed that if you do not find those problems, then you have red-green glasses on your head. ‘Had’, ‘former’, ‘not my responsibility’, ‘the economic framework wasconcerned’, ‘the money will be distributed in haste’, ‘the Court of Justice will come later’ —these are the last days Then you will hear the comments of the Centre and the SDP that for what criticism is being made of the government, that we are doing very well and that everything is well, that there have been some mistakes here, but lessons will be learnt from everything. [AnttiCall]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u83	Mr President! On several occasions, in my speech, in the Prime Minister's announcement, I said that the situation is serious — the situation is serious. This is the message that I have repeated time and again in the Government's information, in this Chamber, to the parliamentary groups when I told them what was going on. This is a message I have repeated: the situation is serious. We are not sitting here in the box and saying that everything is fine and now we no longer have to worry; on the contrary, the situation is still serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u86	Mr President! We are dealing with a crisis that threatens people's health, but also an economic and social crisis that shakes society widely, and all of these are now being resolved simultaneously by the government. The Government has stressed that decisions must be taken on the basis of the best available research data, and the importance of transparency of information cannot be overemphasized either. When the pandemic is global, the importance of international cooperation and research is also emphasised, as the Prime Minister has well said. For example, success in developing a well-functioning vaccine is now particularly critical. With a controlled effort to put an end to strict restrictions, it is important to remember that there are many ways to avoid social contact. For example, there could be a stepwise visit to school or workplaces. I also hope that we will find solutions that will make life easier for older people living in quarantine conditions and elderly people living in service homes. I also worry about the children’s long summer vacation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u87	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the government for its good work in this serious crisis. It would be important to re-open the necessary passenger services on board. Almost all countries recommend that their citizens avoid unnecessary travel. However, there is also a need for transport, which has been virtually impossible at a time when ferries are not allowed to carry passengers. As in Tornio-Haaparanta, there is usually no border with Sweden in Åland. Ålandians work in Sweden. There are also families whose members are in another country. In the event of accidents and death, it is important to be able to travel. Today travel is possible only by flying, not by ferry. However, flying is expensive and there is a greater risk of infection. It's easier to keep social distance when you're on a ferry than when you're on a plane. Restrictions on the spread of infections are important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u88	Mr President! It's a little disproportionate sometimes the opposition's comments sound. When you look at the big picture, everyone can admit that we have succeeded. There's been a public announcement of a common direction. I think that decision-making, experts and Finns have also had a common direction. This is shown by the fact that we are below all the estimates predicted of the progress of this epidemic. The government has also been highly criticised, but when I looked at the decision-making material of the Prime Minister's Office this morning at the time of exceptional circumstances, the government has brought 120 legislation plus regulation to the decision-making process in six weeks. It is a tremendous amount of work and it is about the government's responsibility and morals that are now going to overcome this epidemic. That we also have to acknowledge those successes. Here only take these individual things, but this kind of mass when there is legislation, so forced there will be,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u89	Mr President! Prime Minister Marin admits that the government has screwed up during the corona crisis. Among other things, he mentioned business subsidies. Indeed, one of the worst mistakes has been the way in which business subsidies are distributed. As early as March, every experienced entrepreneur saw the terms of the company subsidies after reading that the bellhop goes. The requirement of the aid dealer, Business Finland, for a business development plan in order for the company to receive the aid is incompatible with pandemic conditions. Support has been given to those companies that best know fine sentences about digitalisation, circular economy, platform economy, technological innovation and so on. Of course, business aid can also be granted for development, but the emphasis should be different. During the crisis that will stop the economy, support should be given, in particular, to the running costs of healthy companies, such as rents and wages, and to compensate for the losses caused by the closure. Thus, by acting on the damage to the Finnish economy from the corona crisis, it can be mitigated and recovery from the crisis will be faster.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u90	Representative Grahn-Laasonen, followed by Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u91	Mr President! It is a good thing that it is admitted that mistakes have been made, and it is universally human, and I am sure that we all understand that we are under great pressure here. At the same time as we see what these things are, what we are talking about, they are serious, and perhaps the most serious issue of protective equipment. It has been more than two months since this issue has been raised and raised in this Chamber. The tasks of the government also include implementation, its executive power. We must ensure that the responsibilities are in order, that we know who does, that we agree that there are resources and that there is knowledge of them. All of this is government work and mission. This situation is still not under control, but now there is a fear that the same is happening in the test matter. It is said that the objective of all of us is to test, but that implementation does not work. They will not be tested even if the government has a great deal of will. Now I ask: what are you going to do, that this implementation will be more successful now and that lessons will be learnt from these mistakes?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u92	Mr President! No one in this Chamber has made any proposal for a divisional approach to corporate subsidies other than what is currently in place. All of these have been done unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u95	Mr President! Tavio, group leader of the Finns Party, said quite frankly: “The government has failed. “ He referred in particular to these economic costs, but also in other ways. Fortunately, 85% of Finnish citizens give their direct support to the Prime Minister and hence to the Government for these actions, and also internationally we see that Finland has succeeded in genuinely controlling the spread of this corona virus. It remains an existing risk, but it has been achieved. Compared to the situation in the early 1990s, when companies were put on their knees and banks were rescued, the government is now acting differently. We are helping companies in this tight situation, and we are also helping sole entrepreneurs, and the unemployed are being supported. In this respect, too, it is seen that the government is genuinely helping Finnish society. It will cost money financially, but it will help in this. It is true that there are fewer restrictions in some countries. It's paid for in human lives. When these restrictive measures begin to be dismantled, it makes sense that they should be done step by step, perhaps regionally but also functionally. For example, restaurants could take off functionally in such a way as to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u96	Congressman Tavio's name was mentioned. Would you like to make a reply?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u97	Mr. Speaker! It has been said so much that this is under control when not even a peak of disease has been reached. I am quite concerned about this attitude of yours, as you keep telling the people, who are probably listening to it in front of the televisions, that this situation is under control and that is under control. It's not under control. It's still under control. We have hundreds of dead. If you look at New Zealand, you can already say that the situation is under control. If, as suggested by the Finns-Finnishs, when there were less than 200 infections, only pharmacies and grocery stores had been left open, then at least restaurants could certainly be opened in this situation. That concern lies in the fact that the WHO has warned that it is not sure whether there will even be immunity here, and then we know that the development of vaccination will be very difficult and will certainly have to wait for drug development in practice. So if this is the case, now that Uusimaa didn't have any antibodies according to THL,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u98	Mr President! We have been talking here today about what the government's strategy is, and the Prime Minister is asking what the coalition strategy is. I listened to it carefully, and they have a strategy for a safe opening up of society. I am not a minister, but I think this is also a government strategy, a safe opening up of society. [AnttiCall] Mr. Speaker! This testing is an essential part of how we can move forward from this situation and, while the capacity is high, then, on the other hand, the number of tests to be carried out every day is still relatively low, and one hospital district this week reported that such wooden sampling sticks are missing. Of course, this is something that we politicians should be dealing with, and I would be interested in: what have we now achieved with these daily testing rates, not in capacity, but in daily testing rates?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u99	Mr President! Leadership, that's basically what this is all about. I've seen a lot of different leaders in my career, and as a person, a leader needs to be someone they trust.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u102	Mr President! Even in these circumstances, health is not just an epidemic control, but other diseases and problems must be kept under control. It has already been recognised that mental health problems and intimate violence are unfortunately increasing, all of which are being weighed together in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when considering restrictions and their necessity. It is difficult to weigh when we know that women die every year in Finland from intimate partner violence, and we know that such locks increase intimate partner violence. Fortunately, this situation has now been addressed, more resources have been put in place for organisations, but I would be interested to hear from the government what other means we have other than support for organisations and support for municipalities, which will enable us to tackle violence in close relationships. It would be tragic if this situation were to happen that, while we can keep the epidemic contained, the Finns will then fall ill and even perish for other reasons, even in the wake of these restrictions. I would like to stress once again that this assessment is quite difficult, and that is why I think it has been wonderful for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to have done it together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u103	Mr President! If anything, the corona crisis has really shown us the importance of the welfare state. Indeed, in this acute crisis, the government has, as a general rule, acted in a good and timely manner and with broad support from the people. That's what I want to thank you for. Thank you, too, for every Finn who has now stretched in this situation, whether it is there at home or at work. This has enabled us together to protect each other, especially those at risk. Well, now, after the acute crisis, there really is a need for major reconstruction, and the economy must be revived in a way that also increases social and environmental sustainability. In other words, we need a stimulus that creates work that reduces emissions, reduces welfare inequalities and increases security of supply. Climate action and these main government reforms, such as the extension of compulsory education, must definitely be continued.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u104	Mr President! When this conversation started, it was great to see that quite quickly it went in the direction of looking ahead and seeking those further steps. For example, the chairman of the Finns Party asked the government questions such as how from now on and so on. Now the Finns changed strategy, and the group leader went to the list of errors and to what has not been done correctly and why has not been done correctly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u107	Mr President! Before the corona, we had thousands of people on food lines every day. Let's not forget the underprivileged. At present, people are laid off for two or three months from several standard jobs, and the Employment and Economic Development Offices are asking them for employment surveys. It wasn't supposed to be like this. We had to give support. I could say that the Finnish people have succeeded in acting responsibly to prevent the spread of the virus. This is thanks to the Finnish people, not to the pasteurising government. The Prime Minister now admitted the errors, and I thank the Prime Minister for finally admitting them. However, the public has been allowed to follow up the explanations on the port issue, on the airport issue, on the respiratory protection issue. That is why I quote a comment that has been heard globally today, slightly modified:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u110	Representative Laiho, followed by Minister Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u111	Mr President! The important thing about this epidemic is that we are able to protect risk groups and, unfortunately, it has failed with regard to nursing homes. Part of this is due to the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has had an unclear division of labour and a weak flow of information. After some time, another minister has given instructions to use a mouth-nosed cover, even a cloth cover, and the other minister has not known that such a guide has been given, and there are no protective equipment to provide it. If there is insufficient guidance and sufficient material, it will not be possible to follow it in the field. The second point is the tests. It is great to try to increase the tests, but when it does not appear in practice very much. In Finland the day before yesterday there were 1,500 tests according to THL — more than five million in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u112	Mr President! Mr Satonen and Mr Ovaska dealt with this economic aspect of the corona, and I am sure that no aid package will suffice, but only that we will be able to control and ultimately suppress this virus. Until the vaccine exists, we must live with the restrictions and the dismantling of them and constantly balance how we do it. Therefore, all the means by which we can make progress in medicine and open up society are essential. In the debate that is emerging in Europe that companies want to return to this continent with a great deal of subcontracting chains, Finland must be able to demonstrate that we are competitive, that they are returning to us. Of course, the challenges that Finland faced in the economy before this corona crisis have not disappeared, but have perhaps only deepened, and we also need to get to grips with them when we have overcome this virus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u113	Representative Piritta Rantanen, followed by Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u114	Mr President! In this special time and situation, I want to be the first to wish everyone health, strength and strength. I am sure we all have our own challenges in this crisis situation. Thank you to the Prime Minister and the Government for your work in dealing with the crisis. We have just heard a progress report on the situation in the crisis, and proposals for solutions, ideas and discussions on this subject are taking place in both here and in the turbulent and square areas and on Facebook. On this point, I would like to draw attention to just a few points: under the Preparatory Act, municipalities have the right to waive the time limits for urgent care, and this is, of course, understandable in this situation. In recent times, however, we have heard disturbing news about a lot of cancellations for breast cancer screenings and other periods of emergency care, for example, and people do not necessarily have the courage to go to a doctor. I would like to ask: what is the current situation with regard to different screenings and unsolicited reception times?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u115	Mr President! There are many questions here, and I will answer this question, too, if I have time. The big picture is important now to perceive. We are trying to protect the risk groups, and now it is up to Parliament to decide whether we are serious or not. In principle, this government started by making sure that we in Finland, for example, those over 70 years of age could be safe. We have had to make a very tough decision that the Government has recommended quarantine conditions for people over 70 years of age. It is also much criticised because many people who are over 70 years old are in very different positions in terms of their ability to function. At the same time, however, we will have to consider, on the basis of human dignity and self-determination, how to continue in this important task, which is to protect the groups at risk, including our ageing Finns. The figures in the light of which we are now looking at whether or not it has been successful,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u116	Mr President! The interest came and no one was ready — neither Finland nor the whole world. This was the starting point, and in view of this, the government has mostly worked well. In two months, a huge number of temporary legislation relating to exceptional circumstances have been introduced. It has been examined here bravely in the fear of corona also in the parliamentary committees. Most of these proposals have aimed at saving and helping the ordinary people in this situation, as well as helping businesses. There is no way I can honestly say that there has been something wrong with this. I would like to say that this is a common cause for the people as a whole, and as a representative of the opposition, I feel that it is also my duty to focus on all the good and good proposals that the government is making, and I do not feel that it is my job to seek out a weak point in every matter. I feel that I, as a Member of Parliament, now have a responsibility to fight like in a winter war, in a common spirit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u119	I would like to give four more speeches, Mr Lindén, Mr Kivisaari, Mr Estonian and Mr Juvonen, and then a summary speech to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u120	Mr President! Many of these problems have now been raised in the latter hour. I would say that, when the international media are being followed, all countries have had to fight with these same problems, and it can reasonably be said that, in Finland, however, they have been quite well dealt with. Unfortunately, the most incorruptible measure is mortality in such an epidemic. When I look at the deaths of 16 Western European countries per 100,000 inhabitants, there are at the top, namely the highest number of deaths, Belgium, 56, and then there come quite close to Italy, Spain, France, at the moment also the United Kingdom. Then we have a group where fewer than ten people have died per 100,000 inhabitants, and there is Germany, 6.9. Then there will be a group of under four, and there will be Iceland, there will be Norway, there will be Estonia, and there will be 16 countries least: Finland, 3.3 per 100,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u123	Mr President! In many ways, during the crisis, the government has shown a good sense of the situation, a good example of which is the government’s support for parents under ten years of age who were left at home without earned income to teach their children at a distance. Despite this, there is a debate on the welfare of children in society. This is, of course, natural. Schools are a major welfare pillar and educational partner, and the corona crisis has made this cooperation difficult. However, whatever the times have been, there has always been a lot of children’s welfare challenges. I would like to ask the Minister in charge: do we have reliable information, rather than hearsay, on whether there has been an increase in nausea in children's homes?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u124	Mr President! I think it was right that, at the start of this corona crisis, the government instructed hospitals to double their power capacity and also instructed that urgent treatment should be postponed or even withdrawn. Well, now we are in a situation where people's fear of corona has led them to cancel their appointments for both basic health care and special care. There has already been mention of a decrease in cancer screenings minus 50%, stroke patients in Varsinais-Suomi have also delayed their application for treatment, and heart patients also show up 30% less in a cardiologist's consultation. This brings us to an increase in the maintenance debt. Health care is responsible for providing health benefits. I ask the Minister: how do you intend to prepare for an increase in the maintenance debt? Healthcare professionals are deeply saddened that when treatment is delayed it will also become more difficult and healing can even become impossible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u125	Mr President! The initial shot to the corona was already fired in January. Therefore, the comments made by THL in March, for example, were very confusing. THL noted that coronavirus is not as serious as initially thought. I ask you the government: Finland was surprised, Finland was surprised, the government was surprised, THL was surprised — what did we learn from this? Is it possible that in the future we would be up a little earlier? In March, it was said that the virus is not serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u128	Then Minister Ohio, then Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u129	Mr President! Thank you for your very important contributions, many of which have raised the issue of the need for children in this situation. We asked about the concrete way in which it appears. From the point of view of multiprofessional work, the very worrying message is that the number of child protection notifications has fallen at the moment when adults are unable to face children to see the difficult situations that exist in their homes. From the police’s point of view, this is reflected in an increase in the number of home alarm missions. And not only according to the Finnish police, but also at European level — once the issue has been discussed with the Home Affairs Ministers — sexual crimes against children online are also on the rise in this time. In other words, children are now under very heavy pressure in this time period, and it is therefore very important that we return as soon as possible to the normal situation of each child.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-64.u130	Mr President! I think it was Mrs Kausto who referred to my part of the speech that took up the Prime Minister's duties and said that I would not shirk responsibility. Well, I can say that responsibility has been shouldered here during this crisis, and the government, of course, is responsible for this situation. I can also tell you that on a daily basis I wonder whether this whole could be better managed by whether I could do better myself, how I could change my own actions so that we could manage this situation better and less cause people suffering. When we look at these problems or mistakes which we have seen and which we have also acknowledged, it is also important, of course, to find out what caused these mistakes, why they have been made so that we can learn. When I have told you some times what the faults have been caused or what the problems have been caused from, these reports are often labeled as an explanation or blame for something. I personally think it is also important to go through and tell you why. We have had a wide range of operational problems, we have problems with organisational and administrative boundaries, both between ministries and between ministries, i.e. the state and then municipalities and joint municipal boards. These are not new things, these are old things, but now, in a crisis situation, we see that these organisational boundaries genuinely present us with a lot of challenges. The challenge is also that our legislation is not designed for crisis situations. We have lacked a lot of crisis instruments and we have had to create them on the way and bring new legislation to Parliament constantly so that we can meet the challenges we have faced. Human error is also made, human error is made by a variety of actors, and this is also reflected in the whole of it. In some areas, very serious errors have been made, such as the operation of the Emergency Supply Agency, which is also currently under investigation. [The President knocks ]
