ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! Let me remind you of our security limits: in this hall you have to keep those distances and the mask on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u2	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SIVM 10/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 24 November 2020. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u3	Mr President! Let me check again — excuse me, I did not just hear — whether it was all paragraphs or the first.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u4	1st bill, Section 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u5	I will make an amendment following the protest of the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u6	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u7	Mr President! I will make a proposal to amend the article in accordance with the protest of the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u8	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u9	Mr President! I will make a proposal to amend the article in accordance with the protest of the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u10	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u11	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 24 November 2020. In the debate, with the support of Pia Kauma Janne Sankelo, Parliament has proposed to adopt a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u12	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u13	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 26/2020 vp. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u14	Mr. Speaker! The seventh draft amending budget for 2020, together with its complements, will increase the budget by around EUR 1.5 billion and will reduce the actual revenue estimate by EUR 340 million. On the other hand, it is the so-called normal draft amending budget for autumn, which includes revisions of estimates of revenue and needs, but also includes high expenditure on the corona virus situation. The biggest increases in appropriations are made to central government contributions to the provision of basic services to municipalities — EUR 750 million — to the fixed-term cost support of companies, to the provision of public transport services in the event of a prolonged corona virus situation, to the purchase of covid-19 vaccines and to the actual development cooperation. The support of municipalities in the context of the corona crisis has prompted debate mainly from their encounters. It is widely regarded as important that basic municipal services should be secured at such a critical time, and in the view of the Committee on Finance, the appropriations allocated by the government have, as a general rule, been quite correct. The aim of this increase is to ease the challenges of local government finances arising from the corona pandemic and to compensate for the direct testing and tracing costs associated with the corona. This appropriation is allocated to municipalities through the system of central government transfers but on a non-standard basis: EUR 129 million of an increase of EUR 400 million is allocated according to the number of inhabitants and EUR 267 million in proportion to the distribution rates of municipal tax applicable in the tax year 20, i.e. favouring those who, on the basis of the determination of central government contributions, receive a relatively large slice, but, unlike normal, then, this revenue collection in the municipality will have a significant impact on this recovery. In addition, according to the number of inhabitants aged 13 to 15, EUR 4 million has been allocated, which will then be allocated to school expenditure for secondary school-age children. The Committee on Finance draws attention to the fact that the impact of the corona epidemic on individual municipalities is very different, but the imputed state aid procedure does not allow quite one to ensure that the compensation corresponds to the actual costs incurred. Thus, for some municipalities, increases in the central government share are higher than the additional direct costs of the corona virus. In principle, the needs of municipalities could be better taken into account in the state aid procedure, but the processing of applications would then be administratively burdensome and would take a long time to the 21st half of the year. It is therefore understandable that it has been decided to increase the central government shares so that additional funding will be made available to municipalities in the course of this year. The committee considers the procedure to be appropriate in this situation, but stresses that it is justified in the future to move towards real cost compensation. It is also important that municipalities use the additional input they have received for the activities for which they are intended, and that municipalities take care of the quality and adequacy of basic services. The Committee notes that the temporary additional funding granted in the wake of the corona epidemic does not remove the structural problems of local government finances, but is a challenge of adapting to the post-corona crisis and towards a normal financing path. Therefore, in order to strengthen their economy, municipalities must carry out structural reforms that will improve productivity, effectiveness, employment and the sustainability of the economy in the long term. Municipalities must also strive to create a vitality and economic activity that increases tax revenues and reduces, among other things, unemployment expenditure — that is, the same objective as the whole of the nation in terms of raising employment rates and boosting growth. EUR 200 million will be allocated as a follow-up to the direct assistance to hospital districts, and that is the clear link to interest payments. The Committee stresses the need to continue to monitor the adequacy of resources in the medical districts and to ensure that medical districts are able to respond, inter alia, to the pressures of an increase in treatment without haste and to ensure that treatment queues are dismantled. The recapitalisation of Climate Fund Ltd will also receive the support of the Finance Committee. The Committee considers it important to boost investments in support of carbon neutrality, because climate and digital investment is currently not sufficiently achieved on a market-based scale, especially at the heads of small and medium-sized enterprises. In the past, EUR 300 million has been allocated to company cost support in the fourth amending budget. Some of it was not used. The Government presented a draft amending budget to Parliament as a law amending the law on fixed-term company cost support, with the aim of ensuring corporate liquidity and business continuity in the event of a further prolongation of the interest rate pandemic. When EUR 140 million was not used for the first application, a total of EUR 550 million will be available for the second phase of the cost support in question. The Committee stresses the importance of systematic monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of aid and the impact on employment and welcomes the fact that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, in cooperation with the Business Aid Research Section, has prepared a plan for the audit and evaluation of interest rate subsidies for the years 20 to 23. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health's section also includes an additional interest subsidy of EUR 6 million to be paid to Åland. In this connection, the committee proposes to supplement the allocation by a maximum of EUR 6 million to compensate for the additional direct costs incurred by the covid-19 pandemic for social and health care in the Åland Islands and involves more than just testing and tracing costs. As a whole, the committee welcomes these proposals from the draft amending budget and the supplementary government proposal and proposes the adoption of its package with the above amendments and proposes that the amending budget initiatives be rejected and that the seventh amending budget for the year 20 be applied as from 3 December.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u15	Thank you for the introduction. — Let’s go to a short debate. For those who wish to participate in the debate, press the V button from your place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u16	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Finance first said that this support for the municipalities had been well hit, but then drew attention to the fact that the committee had stressed that further efforts should be made to achieve even greater accuracy in the future. This same point was also drawn to the attention of the Administrative Committee in its own opinion, and I would not underestimate this aspect. I am aware that the current government has money so that wrists are forced, that is, there is money for everything. There's nothing to worry about tomorrow, no matter how much money you take. But, of course, while there are always financial problems in municipalities, it is still a little strange that when the cost of the interest rate has been sought to compensate the municipalities, some or a lot of municipalities have had to pay more compensation than they have had to pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u17	Mr President! Yesterday, there was another day in the Chamber when it required more expenditure on various sides, probably justifiable in itself. Today, with Zyskowicz here instead of Heinonen, the leading economic politician in the assembly, we are now again criticising debt. As far as the interest subsidies to these municipalities are concerned, I have also followed the finances of the municipalities very closely. It is now good to see that the hole in the municipalities in this economy does not just come from these costs. It is clear that the interest rate will entail costs, but it is precisely the loss of its income base, the loss of tax revenue, and when we look at the means available to the government to compensate for these costs, the right means have been found. At the same time, however, we must see that the municipalities also need support for their loss of income, because otherwise it would lead to local authorities being driven into a state of affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u18	Mr President! The good thing is that we look at the local government situation as a whole, because, admittedly, it has been so, that when you look at what has been said in the press on the subject of budget readings, it has been said quite a lot in many municipalities that there are no economic problems here, since the state has made so much money, even if there have been other structural problems there before the interest rate. So yes here admittedly a little like this a distorted picture of the situation becomes. But I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, in actual fact, that, when there is concern about the conditions for the third sector in the protest, now that the Temporary Act has secured this decreasing return of Veikkaus to cultural, physical, scientific and social organisations, how it will be dealt with in the future, and whether there is a need for parliamentary cooperation to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u19	Mr President! Interest subsidies and the adjustment of the effects of the interest rate in itself understand, although there is no reason to overcompensate, but what we really do not understand is why, in such a situation, we are pumping EUR 100 million into development aid with an amending budget on top of all the development aid that we are already paying out. Is nothing enough for the Green Left government? Secondly, the investment of 300 million in this Climate Fund — do you not have any modesty that you dare to spend this kind of money on such nonsense during the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u20	Mr President! Even at this point, when there is so much corrective wisdom over the additional budgetary measures of this government, how many will there be when the corona crisis sometimes ends? I think it is important to take care of business. This cost support, a new model of it, I hope it will help in this regard, and I think it will come at the right time. Perhaps there is still a need for cost support for three, as Minister Lintilä did at some point. It is quite clear that local authorities are not exactly in a position to direct this support, but it is important that we take care of their activities, and here too the final wisdom of the opposition might not be worth making a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u21	Mr President! This government's amending budget will indeed continue at this rate of indebtedness, and this year's net borrowing will then amount to EUR 19.6 billion. But it's dizzyingly high. It is understandable, of course, that this is now being taken on board in such a way that companies in particular, on the one hand, and our health care, on the other, will survive, and also in such a way that these various basic services are not being cut very quickly in the municipalities. However, there has been some concern here, and in the Committee on Budgets we also went over this point, that at the moment it seems to me that the accuracy of this hit is not quite right and, for example, that municipalities that have had fewer of these corona situations have had, could even say, overcompensation, and in that sense I think that this concern, which has been raised here about the accuracy of this support, does not in itself have any criticism of the need for its support itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u22	Mr President! Support for municipalities in this midst of the corona crisis is extremely important, as municipalities are largely responsible for essential basic services for citizens. The government must take the hit, because the shoulders of the state are wider. Of course this targeting can be discussed, it must be discussed, but perfect instruments, especially in this situation, where this support must be mobilised quickly, certainly not. But yesterday, Mr President, the National Audit Office issued a report on special government agencies. They have been set up in recent years, and perhaps even on a few minor grounds, without a clear purpose. For Vake Oy, the Board of Directors has made a posture movement and transformed it into a Climate Fund and laid down a clear task and rules for its operations. This is very good. The capitalisation of the climate fund is also important and necessary, because, as the committee points out, it is important to boost investment in support of carbon neutrality. It's important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u23	Thank you. And Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u24	Mr President! At the time, in the referral debate and in the committee, I myself said that, in the case of municipalities, measures may not be quite accurate when assessed on a municipal basis. A normal way of assisting municipalities would, of course, be to go through state transfers, but in particular the most prosperous municipalities, which in practice do not receive State contributions but have lost revenue due to the deterioration of this economy, would not have been able to do so, and that is why this change in the share of corporation tax was taken as the second element, i.e. the change in the share of corporation tax and the change in the share of corporation tax. But even after this, it does not go far, accurately to the point of the losses that have occurred in different regions — we have different occupational divisions, industrial structures across Finland. I believe that the costs of the corona itself can be met relatively well by grants to municipalities and hospitals, so that the operators in the sector know that because of the resources they do not need to think about whether or not the corona is being rejected and whether the job is being done, but that they need to be invested to the full. But the biggest losses for the municipalities are, of course, due to the deterioration of this general economic situation and its detrimental effect on tax revenues, and that is what these two main measures are aimed at.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u25	I say, ladies and gentlemen, that when you go into this sort of debut, then this V button will be open for a while, then it will be stuck, and those who have been able to press it in the V button, the speeches will be used. In this way, however, I shall try to keep this sitting in hand in such a way that we can get ahead of ourselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u26	Mr President! We are living in a time when the use of limited resources should be particularly precise and exceptionally careful in setting priorities for expenditure. Any futility, inconclusive action and waste should now be eliminated at the latest. For some reason, it has been concluded within the government that all public spending is a stimulus, and therefore, as the new money holes created by the interest rate are torn apart, nothing has been abandoned or abandoned. In addition to the critical expenditure items, the amending budget has placed purely ideologically motivated expenditure on the budget. What is remarkable is that the Demarinated Government continues and strengthens the way in which public money and financial decision-making are transferred to companies, beyond the control and control powers of the Parliament. This last amending budget does not make an exception. The aim is to pump EUR 300 million more capital into the company that becomes the Finnish Climate Fund Ltd. What on earth is the need for that 300 million in a company that has never made a single investment in its EUR 1.9 billion balance sheet during its entire existence? In addition, Finnfund's capital will be increased by 50 million. The reason for the need for additional capital has not been told to us parliamentarians. The financing of the company's operations and volume education was secured without an increase in capital. We want to add 50 million to our actual development co-operation... [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u29	Mr President! I'm glad you brought up those thinnings. Finnfund, for example, has a great deal of expertise now that the forest sector is also being developed in other parts of the world and investments are being made. And I understand that the representative of the Finns of Finland, who sits on the board of Finnfund, is also involved in developing this activity, and it is great that the government now remembers this sector as well. On the other hand, I would also like to thank the government for this package of municipalities. It is true that, in these times of crisis, who has wider shoulders must bear the responsibility, because in practice the municipalities are in a very difficult situation. The cuts that would have to be made without this package would be out of the very health center services, the school services, early childhood education. So, thank you, government, for this powerful message. Of course, this does not remove the underlying problem in the local government economy, as has been shown here, but this responds to the crisis. I would have liked to have asked the people of the United States when I was sitting in that committee of law, a little bit since I noticed that politics had changed. Perhaps it is because the opposition may also think that there is a lot of money and that there will be plenty for years to come. During the previous period, the Minister of Justice was Mr Häkkänen, who was very busy concentrating the various courts, and he said that this does not mean undermining legal protection. And now that this government then intervened in these past concentration activities and increased funding, at the same time the assembly will be pecking even more and demanding corrections. So what does this mean, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition? Why is there such a big ideological change in the concentration policy that you have pursued in different sectors, including those in the courts? What, then, is your objection here? Has your line changed? That's what I'm really hoping for.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u30	President! I have tabled two own budget initiatives in this seventh amending budget of the government. We should try to save as much government money as possible. For this reason, it cannot be justified in any way that Parliament should make an increase of EUR 50 million in actual development cooperation, when the budget appropriations are already very high at EUR 1032 million this year. In our own country, we have an unprecedented public health and economic disaster for which the debt-taking capacity of public finances must be used. Limited resources must be managed prudently and prioritised. That is why I am proposing to cancel the EUR 50 million increase in actual development aid and to allocate these funds to the preventive well-being of children and young people, i.e. the hiring of psychologists in student and study care. The need for these services has continued to grow as a result of a corona pandemic. For example, the search for aid for low-threshold services, such as crisis telephones, has reached a record level. This year, doctors at the health centre have written twice as many referrals to psychotherapies as last year, and in Espoo, the need for young people to access mental health services has increased by 30 per cent this year. This 50 million would also receive more than 1,000 nurses for a year, some 800 new police officers or 300 new permanent teaching posts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u31	Mr President! I present the protest of the Christian Democrats against this seventh amending budget of the government. It contains three statements from us and one increase in appropriations. Indeed, as I have already said in my debate, this government line will continue on this path of debt and total net borrowing will amount to EUR 19.6 billion this year. Of course, as has been said, some of these uses of the amending budget are important and understandable and worthy of support. It is important to support the municipalities themselves, even though we have hoped to improve the accuracy of the hit, and it has been in committee in a joint debate. And, of course, the additions to company cost support are also relevant, as are the reimbursement of the costs of the corona virus. [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne : RepresentativeEssayah,wait a minute. — Congressman Turtiainen, put on the mask here in the Chamber. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u34	Mr President! Support for municipalities in this epidemic situation is very justified and important. Thank you to the government for understanding the difficult situation in the municipalities. The management of the interest-rate epidemic itself entails high costs, but also the minimisation of the resulting harm during the second phase of the epidemic and, on the other hand, the management and correction of the challenges that arose in the spring require the support of the municipalities. In the spring, some of the students fell off a normal learning path and now need to be helped back there. The reduction in services for elderly people and carers led to care and care debts, which must now be managed so that the increasing costs are not incurred because of the transition to expensive treatments. The lack of preventive action, early detection of problems, timely care and rehabilitation are, in fact, very costly for society in the longer term. With regard to the committee's report, I would like to raise one point with regard to this support for municipalities. It has been written that it is also important for municipalities to use additional investment in the activities for which they are intended and for municipalities to ensure the quality and adequacy of basic services. This is a very important reminder, for, for example, last season, the funding earmarked for help and support for family carers was not, according to studies, directed to where it was intended in all the municipalities and regions. I don't want this happening the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u35	Thank you. — On the basis of Minister Vanhanen’s timetables, Minister Vanhanen, 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u36	Mr President! Mr Satonen and Mr Essayah have asked about this future of funding for organisations. Just as Mr Essayah said, Minister Saarikko has appointed former Minister Erkki Liikanen to lead the investigation and he has started his work. With this additional budget decision, Parliament will ensure this year's funding, and if next year's budget is full in December, next year will have been secured, but realism is that from then on there will be no guarantee that the organisation field will be able to receive it, one might say, top-level funding, which could perhaps have been used to in the organisations at the time when Veikkaus' profits were at their highest. In other words, I think that the organisations should be prepared for the fact that the level of funding will not be sufficient in the future. Mr Satonen called for parliamentary cooperation in this regard. I spoke to Erkki Liikanen and we had the same theme on the table that it is good to have dialogue with the opposition as well. This is a matter for the whole political field, and we must look for alternatives, and I think that in this work we should also look at the conditions for organisations to increase their own funding. The Climate Fund has been criticised on the part of the Finns Party. In particular, Mr Mäkelä said that this was nonsense, and Mrs Ranne was also very critical of it. The Fund will focus on areas where global growth will be very strong. Investments related to climate action and digitalisation will dominate investments worldwide, and we have a great interest in developing Finnish business activities and exports that are able to contribute to this growth. And the Climate Fund is the instrument by which the government is also prepared to make investments — not grants, but equity or debt financing for companies that operate here. This is a clear growth project, an employment project in which we are involved in what is developing strongly. Finally, as far as development cooperation is concerned, there is clearly a difference of opinion here. In Finland, one parliament after another, we have called for Finland to reach 0.7%. It has not been achieved. The Government Programme has also committed itself to increasing development cooperation, and with this additional budget the Government implements both the objective and its own programme proposed by many parliaments.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u37	Thank you. — Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the rules of the game have been agreed jointly by the parliamentary groups in relation to this Chamber work. They are related to the fact that we can keep Parliament operational in all situations and make decisions that are important for Finnish citizens. And for that reason, both for ourselves and for others, it has been agreed here to wear masks. I repeat the request that the mask should be on in this room if there is no health reason to use a visor or something like that — we have our own rules of procedure for that too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u38	Mr President! In the seventh amending budget under discussion, there is a great deal of necessary expenses directly incurred as a result of the interest rate. In addition to this, the government is giving more money to a number of areas that are not so necessary, such as development aid and various climate measures, even though the Minister defended them a moment ago. There is plenty of investment in it, but at the same time here in Finland, in this economic situation, and even more speedily, we are driving down peat production. You may not even know what you have decided and will do because, for example, the report of the working group that you set up will not come until next spring and there will certainly be the information that is needed for this decision. In other words, for reasons of security of supply, the dismantling of a very important sector and of the employment sector has now begun and taxpayers and entrepreneurs are being put in a kilometre factory. The municipality is promised 750 million one-off increases and the hospital districts 200 million. This is essentially necessary, although this overcompensation has also been mentioned here today. The municipalities will survive with this, we already know that at this stage, this year and next year. However, I would draw attention to the fact that the local economy was in crisis long before the corona, and when the epidemic is sometimes over, then this economic crisis is also in our hands. This year and the coming year will therefore be saved by the aid package, but then we will know that the social welfare reform will not save municipalities unless new operating models are introduced in the municipalities. It can now be said that the cheese planer model is past time, and the chairman of the Committee on Finance also pointed out the need for new structural reforms. That's the way it is. It must be possible to do things differently in the municipalities in the future. Leadership and managerial skills in the administrative machinery require updating, good knowledge and also psychological skills managers and supervisors will be at the centre of future management. It is quite clear that as the working community improves its ability and efficiency, the general working environment will also improve. I mean, more high-quality training for the civil service. I believe that in the municipalities of the future, things are done more together than they are today. Among other things, the social economy will be a key word between the public and private and third sectors and a good addition. Municipalities have a wide range of unused resources all the time, they just need to be deployed in a coordinated way. Hopefully, in the future, the government will take greater account of the need for change. Companies are about to receive cost support of 410 million, and then when this old unused 140, a total of 550 million will be in use. I really hope that this time there will be sufficient support for those in need. In the spring of the Minister's mouth many times, many times the saying was raised that healthy businesses will be saved. Now, in the present situation, I am going to ask the same question again: what is it like now, when former healthy companies have eaten up their buffers and six months of interest-free access, what is the meaning of the spring slogan now? Statistically it is true that there has not yet been a major wave of bankruptcy, and that is a good thing, but at the same time the bomb is ticking. Can we trust that Finnish companies and jobs will be saved in the current situation? A number of daily contacts from entrepreneurs send out a valid message of fear and concern that not all those who need help will be supported this time either. Mr President! We Finns have proposed, as one of the ways to mitigate the future distress, to reduce the lower limit of company cost support from EUR 2000 to EUR 1000. There are 180,000 self-employed people in our country, many of whom have a threshold of EUR 2000 far too high. The climate fund's capital investment in this proposal amounts to 300 million, although the government is loudly advertising how we will soon receive more than three billion from the EU fund. We've got more and more stakes in Moloch's mouth. At the same time, domestic companies in many sectors are fighting so-called the struggle for life and death. Mr President! There's a lot of burning in here. The government is unable to make any adjustments to the state economy and thus leave the making of bad decisions to its successors. Not like this, thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u39	Mr President! This amending budget allocates significant increases to municipalities in the expenditure increases resulting from the corona pandemic, including the costs of testing and tracing, and this is certainly a timely and opportune proposal. However, the problems of many municipalities are much deeper than the effects of the corona pandemic, which is why these corona subsidies have even provided some municipalities with temporary relief, which may, for example, lull municipal decision-makers to the impression that this type of relief will continue to exist. In fact, this committee's report states that the temporary additional funding granted as a result of the corona epidemic does not remove the structural problems in the municipal economy, which are very much the result of this change in the age structure. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that this interest rate situation does not remove structural problems at the national level either. The debt that the state is now taking on these attacks is acceptable and necessary in this situation, but at the same time it should give light to the end of the tunnel: how to deal with these debts in due course. That is why we really need the proposals for structural reforms, such as social security reform, which I think are already ahead of schedule and are already on a faster schedule than has been envisaged so far, and indeed the government's employment measures would be awaited with an urgent timetable. It is also important, of course, that the municipalities make use of these additional contributions to the activities for which they are intended. There is a particular concern about this growing care debt, that is, at the same time as efforts are being made to deal with the consequences of the corona epidemic, and unfortunately, in many ways we have increased this care debt, and it should be addressed as far as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u40	Mr President! I think that this budget will continue with the good, responsible post-column management policy of the government, and it is important that Finnish society should survive this epidemic without major attacks. Of course, the main focus is now on the municipal and social funding package, and all in all, these amending budgets have now supported the social and health services as well as the municipalities, and that is good. Well, then the debate on the accuracy of the match that has been going on here — yes, I am saying a little differently. If you look at the local government economy in the long run and the municipal budget, 39 municipalities or cities have raised their income criteria, i.e. tax banks, and this is the lowest figure in the 2000s. In these government subsidies, the accuracy of some sort of hit is bound to be now, and the period from 20 to 21 now calms down the situation in the municipalities a little bit, but we all know, and the coming councils after the municipal elections, that when they make strategies and economic strategies, the time is challenging for 22 and then especially for 22 to 23 when welfare areas start. There will certainly be enough headaches in the municipalities, but the most important thing is that we can get past this and now we can support the medical districts and municipalities in this situation. Another important point in my view in this budget is this additional cost support for companies in this situation, EUR 550 million, and I welcome the fact that today, at the same time, the criteria for its cost support have also been examined in relation to the previous allocation round. It will, of course, make it possible for more people, businesses, to share its cost support, and it is essential that it remains turnover-based. Then to this big picture of central government finances, where 19,7 or 19,6 is now the right figure that is now owed this year, and with a rough distribution, if you look at where that money has gone, 75 percent of it has gone to companies, municipalities, interest rate management and saving Finnish everyday life — 75 percent. 25% is then growth and recovery, which is of the utmost importance, at the same time being able to support the growth and recovery, and there are also the government's future investments, which are highly criticised by the opposition, which are also part of this process of building growth and the future. All in all, good
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u41	Mr President! This seventh amending budget and its supplement come, of course, for the reasons of the situation. I am a little surprised to have followed this debate when it seems that, now that more money is going on for the municipalities, that they can cope with these consequences of the interest rate, there is a bit of a taste of smarty-pants in that criticism of the opposition. We all know the fact that, first of all, it affects health care expenditure, that is clear. Continuous testing, caring for people and saving their lives in the worst cases requires bets and demands money, and that must be supported by the state, that is obvious. The second point is, of course, the loss of tax revenue in the municipalities. It strikes many times: it strikes first of all wage taxation by making people either laid off or at worst unemployed and clearly reducing the tax revenue from earned income. Then the corporate tax revenue will also decrease, resulting in losses to municipalities all the time. I would like to see these facts seen, now that this situation is being assessed. Just saying it doesn't get away with it. You have to understand what this is all about. Then, of course, it is extremely important that we get through this difficult time. If all the companies go down... As we all know, the costs of the collapse of turnover are not compensated, but the company’s fixed costs — for different rentals and such — have been compensated for by the State’s money, not for the collapse of turnover. We all know this, and now we just have to create over this difficult time until that easy, a little better time comes. In his own speech, Mr Kiviranta, as a skilful Member of Parliament, was able to say the best thing about what the debate will be like when this corona has been left behind. My guess is, as Kiviranta suggested, that there will be even more of these wise ones — but wisdom is never a bad thing, it is always a positive thing when it is properly used. Finally, Mr President, when we are preparing to use the money from the Climate Fund, just as Mr Vanhanen said in his speech, for example, in order to increase digitality in this country and when the message I have heard from those corridors of this Parliament is that we should go digitally in order to improve wireless networks and not to favour fixed fibre networks, it is worth remembering that no wireless network is playing properly unless there is a fibre connection between them, that is quite clear. In my municipality of Ilomants, I have experienced it in concrete terms: as soon as the fibre network was built, so many, many times also improved wireless broadband connections, because there was a fibre connection between the link masts that speeded up the work. I hope we build that fiber optic connection. If we stay on the wireless, Finland will fall off the sled, and that is tragic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u43	Mr President! Although it is a so-called normal amending budget, this situation is in no way normal, and it is also reflected in this amending budget. There are three cores here, three of the most important things that we are trying to ensure the well-being of Finns and the survival of companies beyond this crisis so that we can achieve as little human and economic damage as possible. One is the additional costs incurred by municipalities due to the corona, such as the use of face masks by teachers and instructors in schools. Recommendations for students in secondary and secondary schools also cost municipalities considerably more money. This is important because the municipalities have already been in a very tight financial situation, and it is precisely these costs of the interest rate that are now being paid to the municipalities. The other is the hospital districts. We know that last spring, for example, in the case of cutting operations, the number of cuts was reduced, all staff were transferred to nursing work due to corona and also to tracking and steering work. Of course, this has led to a fall in income for the medical districts, but even when workers have been transferred to other jobs, it has become an additional cost for all these accessories. That is why it is important that there is now also an increase for the medical districts. The third important issue, apart from the public side, is, of course, the private side and companies. Not all the subsidies received by the companies last spring went away, there were still some, but there is also a desire to give them an additional contribution, because many companies are certainly at a tight pace: spring has been able to be and may still be holding on to the worst, but now the prospects are starting to be weak. That is why it is important that in every way we can also support companies beyond this worst. All these measures will also support employment and the maintenance of employment at even the level it has been, it is extremely important that we can then look to the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u44	Mr President! This seventh amending budget and the additional government proposal have been here for a quick reading. I do not know the history of the budget well enough, but do I dare say in this respect that the seventh amending budget is perhaps one of the record high figures for amending budgets. But at least it is sure that this year 2020 will go down in history, so that the budgetary level of the amending budgets will probably be record-breaking. In other words, we are in a very exceptional situation, and so is this amending budget in that it pays particular attention to the corona virus and its resolution, and society in general compensates for the sectors that have lost the most, and, on the other hand, with the aim of catching up the corona virus itself and implementing the measures relating to it in such a way that this process can be managed. Mr President! In this amending budget, I would like to draw attention to just one point, one important point that has been criticised quite a lot from the extreme right side of this Chamber. Minister Vanhanen, who took the floor a moment ago, gave a significant response to the development efforts that also exist in this amending budget. That is right, as the Minister has said here, we have a long line both on the part of Parliament and through governments. As early as 70 C.E., decisions have been taken that Finland will follow these UN recommendations for the second decade of development to reach 0.7% of GDP in development cooperation, which the other Nordic countries already achieved in the 1970s. In the early 1970s, Finland committed itself to doing this by the end of the 1970s. The 1970s are quite a long way off, Mr President, you know that. We have raised it decisively, and one time, in 90, this 0.7 was achieved partly by chance when GDP fell, but it was also budgeted enough that we exceeded 0.7. Then came Aho’s bourgeois government, which wrecked its development cooperation. Again, it was started to raise the fact that in the late 1990s it rose and rose and rose, and again we received a bourgeois government and again restricted development cooperation. In this situation, we are now determined to restore what we have had in terms of development cooperation, and now we are genuinely using this amending budget as well. Why? Because this amending budget pays particular attention to the corona virus. Development cooperation aims to reduce global income disparities, to address the problem of poverty globally, so that societies develop in developing countries, including developing countries, avoiding, among other things, uncontrolled migrations, which then cause a wide range of problems around the world. Humans are created to live in their own countries so that they do not have to go away and look elsewhere for opportunities to live. They want to invest in this. And now we know that this corona virus is a burden to us, but the most powerful.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u45	Mr President! As has been said here, this seventh amending budget will probably be record-breaking, we will increase the net borrowing of 1.8 billion, and as the balance for the whole year is already close to 20 billion, I have to say that this merit logic should come to the debate. I'm bringing up something a little bigger. We have this 750 billion recovery package waiting for us, and Finland, too, in a certain way, is involved in getting it back from there and we are paying for it, but while at the same time the EU is trying to protect 30% of our water and land areas and strictly 10%, I suppose in negotiations we should have taken on this kind of conditionality, that this avalanche against Finland's forestry and forestry industry will stop, because our earning logic will not last forever for this debt burden if we are eaten up as if the conditions for paying off these debts sometimes. Mr President! Another thing, maybe even a small one in someone's mind: I would like to draw attention to what Mr Ovaska has also done here to undermine his bad and bad conscience, namely the very questionable decisions taken by the Sipilä Government over the last period, which undermined people's access to justice. Originally, contrary to what Mr Ovaska here wanted to address this motion to the Minister of Justice, Mr Häkkänen, this proposal came from the Minister of Justice, Mr Lindström, who apparently suffered from a job break at the time. Now, however, this is what is being voted on in this Chamber on Friday, and we can correct this here, because now, in the supplementary budget, we have a seat in Pietarsaari, we have a seat in Iisalmi and we have a seat in Varkaus. It can be said, of course, that there has never been an office in Pietarsaari, but in the protest of the coalition, which Ovaska, by voting, can go in the right direction, there is now a record that in Iisalmi and Varkaus there will remain the offices, so that we will return to the fact that this legal system and the related jobs and legal firms and others will be able to do their work and, above all, people will be able to get to justice, because now, in this unfortunate decision of the Sipilä Government, it must admit that it has done it itself — it has been mercilessly beaten.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u46	Mr President! In corona time, you have to try what it's like to talk about here, when I always talk about that mask over there, and somehow you feel that it's so hard that you don't want to breathe. I assume that it is also appropriate for the assembly to have funding given to municipalities and businesses so that they can stand up, but, of course, there has now been a strong expression of how this bill will be handled. But then the time will come, and I assume that we will all be very active in it. In the draft amending budget, it is proposed that funding be targeted in particular at the needs of the corona virus — a very important increase at the moment. The draft amending budget contains a comprehensive set of necessary measures to cover additional costs arising from the acute crisis and compensate for loss of income. In addition, efforts to support economic recovery will continue. The government wants to safeguard people's health and well-being and prevent the spread of the corona virus. We are determined to test, trace, isolate, handle hybrid strategy. It is proposed to compensate municipalities for the direct costs of testing and tracing the Korona virus, such as testing, increasing test capacity, tracing, quarantine, patient care, travel, health safety and vaccine, with a one-off increase of EUR 350 million in the central government share of basic services — I stress: one-off. A new additional $90 million will be provided for the purchase of the vaccine, which will be on top of the previous increases. It is vital for the government to secure the basic services that people need and to support municipalities in order to compensate for the costs and loss of income resulting from the corona virus epidemic. In addition, a one-off increase of EUR 400 million is proposed for central government transfers of basic municipal services and EUR 200 million for hospital districts. Mr President! Then there's this sugar on top: the government wants to help companies overcome the acute crisis. The restrictions imposed to curb the epidemic of the corona virus have weakened the situation of many companies and have affected employment. An additional EUR 410 million is proposed to implement the second round of applications for company fixed-term cost support. It is now important to support the maintenance of jobs and prevent longer-term disadvantages. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u47	Mr President! This amending budget has three dimensions. The first provides basic services through local government funding and through funding for hospital districts because of the interest rate crisis, the second supports employment here and now, that is to say, cost support aimed at preserving businesses and their jobs, and the third is future investment from the perspective of climate policy, but it is also a decision on employment and competitiveness, because we know that once this interest rate subsidises, there is a need for climate-friendly investment and innovation in the world. In general, there are often two challenges in municipal funding when we try to target money. It is a question of how it hits on a municipal level, and it is also a question of how it hits on a case-by-case basis. This amending budget has found as wise a solution as it is possible under these circumstances for this purpose, because a number of criteria have been used. For example, the content-specific criterion relating to the situation of young people and the use of masks in educational institutions has been targeted according to age category. The health costs of the interest rate have been put directly into the medical districts, while the tax loss is compensated for by taking account of the loss of tax revenue. Nevertheless, the accuracy of the match is not perfect, and therefore, when the Section for Local Government and Health prepared this, we recorded the proposal that we should be able to do better in the future. But now the opposition is very critical of this precision. I would therefore challenge you to have presented a better model, because none of the protests made a change to this section of municipal funding, even though much was said about it in this Chamber. I would like to say a few words about this support for organisations. A solution has now been found for next year and a working group has been set up to look at the solution for the next few years, but when Minister Vanhanen said in this Chamber that it might be worth getting used to the fact that funding is not as large as it has been now, this may be true in the future. At the same time, however, society, both the government and the municipalities, must get used to the fact that organisations do not replace public services in the way they currently do, when considering this funding, also have to think about what is to be done by whom. We are in a situation where organisations are, as it were, producer organisations from which both the government and the municipalities order services that they do not always have the funding for themselves. This is in itself worthwhile because the euro, which is geared towards organisation and voluntary activities, produces a benefit of EUR 6 according to the assessments made by the University of Helsinki. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u48	Irade the Talman! Här har hållits bra anföranden kring den sjunde tillagsbudgeten, bland you give ledamöterna Ovaska och Salonen och många andra har lyft fram just de sakerna jag själv tänkte på. Det är helt klart att vi måste tödja företag och kommuner.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u49	Mr President! To Mr Eestilä, you do not need to be your brother's guardian, but you also need to take responsibility for the decisions you make yourself. When I criticised the actions of Mr Häkkänen or then Minister Häkkänen, when he said that this would not mean a reduction in legal protection, I asked whether the idea has changed since you also objected to additional appropriations or proposals on this issue. It is also true that the Minister will certainly take his share of the responsibility. You will translate it into the previous ministers or the previous government. I hope that those who have made decisions will also shoulder their responsibilities. This government in itself, according to the good proposals that have been discussed here, will also increase the number of police officers and prosecutors and judges, which will improve this whole chain and, above all, improve legal protection for Finns and all citizens. I'm sure that's where we all have a common goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u50	Mr President! Although this corona subsidy can and definitely improve the economic situation of municipalities, the Committee on Finance has pointed out, among other things, that, despite the fact that the situation can now improve the finances of many municipalities, the municipalities must, of course, pay attention to the basic career in which municipalities and the finances of municipalities are. However, the possible surplus of municipal accounts does not mean that money will now be injected into something pointless, but I hope that such municipalities will then also invest in services and invest in the way in which the future will be built. It has been pointed out here that municipalities should now be able to produce activities in their territory which will then also increase employment in the future. Well, such a measure is once again linked to this state's proposal that the Border Guard should be offered an order mandate of EUR 240 million and that it should authorise the conclusion of contracts for the purchase of two new outpost ships and an allocation of EUR 120 million for the current year. These, if any, are the kind of procurement that at best enables us to increase employment at home, so I hope that this acquisition will then have a beneficial effect on the country of origin. I would also like to highlight, for example, this increase in Finnfund's capital. It also supports Finnish companies, because we want to increase the export opportunities of companies, and through Finnfund, many companies can also open up business activities in developing countries outside Finland's borders. I think that this corona is one that has at the latest opened people's eyes to the fact that we live in a world so globally dependent that when something happens, it will inevitably affect Finland as well, as this virus has affected Finland, for example, and it is therefore also important that we have allocated increases to development funds. Finally, the Committee on Finance raises the issue of the management debt in its report, and I am very concerned about that, although we are now able to allocate and allocate additional resources, particularly to these costs of interest payments, it does not yet remove the care debt that is waiting for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u51	Mr President! Interest does not justify just any use of money or just any size of debt. However, these things must be acknowledged. This is where new structures are being built and new expenditure is being created, and when you look ahead, that is where these additional calls for funding come from. They will be dealt with in the budgets and amending budgets of the following years and supported by the terms ‘continued’ and ‘secured’. It is well known that when people go to the public sector to take these things forward, one of the main objectives will be to maintain and even increase them. This is how it's going to be if we don't cut this cycle fast. Central bank funding has made us think, imagine that this time there would be something different, that there would be money available that would never have to be repaid. Looking at the situation over the past 35 years, the economic crisis has always come as a surprise, and now it is very close to the corner — there should be no surprise for anyone. Regarding interest: Yes, we live in a global world, but the corona has shown us, however, that resilience requires a higher level of ability and economic impact than good networks, and the more Finland is now in debt, the more we are dependent on other decisions. We must be able to manage our balanced economy ourselves, tackle the problems of the public sector, start thinking about how we will get through this in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u52	Mr President! When I don't really know how to advise Mr. Ovaska, when I quote the president, he remembers. As I recall, President Niinistö said that when the government does something, then the responsibility must be shared and not to address the other party and the other party. If my opinion is correct, no government proposal that comes to this Chamber for discussion and referral or decision will come here unless all government parties agree to that government proposal. The general populist custom of many parliamentarians when it comes to unpleasant decisions for themselves is to write in the newspapers and even in the Chamber to share stories that we did not do this, but that was done by this minister of our second government party. In my opinion, such populism should not be practiced. If you listened, Mr Ovaska, my case just now, I said that it was a big mistake for the Sipilä Government and I was making that mistake myself. See if you can find some honesty in yourself and say that the center was about to shut down the offices of Iisalm and theft, and that didn't make much sense. When someone objects in this Chamber and it is usually put to the vote, you can, Mr Ovaska, then show it to your own opinion when you criticise the assembly. In our protest it has been clearly stated that the offices in Iisalmi and Thieves remain forever. If you want this voting populism to be practiced on Friday, welcome to join us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u53	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the government for a good proposal and, as a municipal decision-maker, I am pleased to say that this seventh amending budget will indeed help the municipalities. But I would also like to thank the Committee on Finance for saying that, although there is a corona pandemic and that is why this additional funding has been granted to municipalities, it does not remove the structural problem in municipal economies. After all, the municipalities are already working to reform and improve the productivity and effectiveness of the structures and then seek employment measures in their own municipalities, so that the long-term unemployed can also be employed. But, Mr President, a word about this venture capital investment for Climate Fund Ltd. From the point of view of the opposition, this has already been condemned as nonsense, and many speeches have been made here about it, but I see this climate fund as a really good investment for the future, because we are, Mr President, going from a fossil economy to a bioeconomy. For example, if one more look to the West, the Norwegian State has a fund based on fossil materials, that is, an oil fund — there are over a thousand billion dollars. I see and feel that one day, when this is properly used, in the right way, Climate Fund Oy will have the opportunity to bring a lot of good and more income to this society. When Mr Eestilä spoke of merit logic, is that not what this is? However, we have green gold growing all the time in those forests, and especially if this fund is capable of scaling subsidies on the industrial side for a number of new investments, then I see that this is of great importance in that we are walking through this crisis and raising growth in this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u54	Mr President! To this end, I must say that, of course, I am proud to be in the ranks of this government: we correct the mistakes of previous governments, whether they are their own or others, and we do so in good faith, because this government, this red soil government, is, above all, committed to having a socially just Finland and even a just, regional Finland. In other words, we do not represent the kind of concentration policy that we have often experienced in government cooperation with the Coalition Party. So there's a clear ideological difference.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u55	Mr President! In my opinion and in our opinion, the government now represents an economically irresponsible policy and policy. You have a lot of very good proposals in relation to training, in relation to the company subsidies that have now been updated, but this issue of employment and the whole public sector is something in which you do not even want to intervene. There has been reference here to the fact that the municipalities are now well off to change their structures and are well aware that this state aid and the various support mechanisms are just a moment's relief, but I claim that there is now such a delusional feeling in a great many municipalities that for a while now we have been saved, now we do not actually have to go and make the big changes that are needed in the municipalities. The whole cost structure would have to be considered there, because no income, even if taxes were raised, would enable municipalities to maintain their existing structures. Then, of course, you must take note of the fact that extra tasks are out of the question. The extension of compulsory education will strike every municipality very hard. I would like the government to look at this aspect in the future. It is not possible to balance public finances without looking the truth in the eye.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u56	Mr President! As a member of the Committee on Finance, Mrs Randzio-Plath well knows that the Committee on Finance in this report drew attention to the fact that the major structural reforms of the municipalities are ahead and need to be prepared and adapted to the changing situation at all times. Similarly, with regard to the state, we have constantly drawn attention to the sustainable level of debt. This is the situation that the corona crisis has never had in the past, and we, like other countries, must measure that economic rescue measure to the carrying capacity of the future. It is essential to increase the employment rate, accelerate employment measures and boost economic growth, all of which are also on the government's agenda. They come and have come at a steady pace, proposals that aim in this direction. We must build that future at the same time as we have to spend large sums of money to keep the wheels rolling, both for public services and for businesses. So this big picture is problematic, but it is by no means inconsolable, and it is not worth putting in motion any kind of panic in this situation. President Niinistö of the Republic drew attention to this doctrine on the part of some economic scholars that the debts of the states would never have to be repaid. The government and the government groups here in Parliament are not behind such doctrines. There may be a single speech, but we do know that these debts will be settled, but it is very long-term in this case, and interest rates will remain low for several years in these perspectives, and it will allow it to build up the basis for growth and increase the employment rate necessary to achieve a sustainable balance in public finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u57	Mr President! They give far too good a picture of what is happening in the municipalities. The debt is growing, there is an increase in eating debt. We do not have the prospect of reforms that would bring the municipalities — or even the majority — into balance with their economies, income and expenditure. This also applies to the home town of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and my own, our home town Hämeenlinna. In this situation, we are not prepared to embark on these reforms either here or there in the provinces and municipalities. There's not going to be cutting off that fat guy who needs to go out of the whole public sector, because if we don't really take action now, we'll have, you know, such harsh situations ahead of us in a few years' time that the weakest are going to suffer in it. It is still possible if we go now to take a close look at the tasks of the municipalities as well as the entire state administration from this upper level, that we still have a great deal to save. But if this is not addressed, let's just wait a little longer and plan a little bit more, and let's just take a little more time and look forward, and then the time has passed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u58	Mr President! This debate on this economic policy in itself is interesting and we are no expert in it. It was mentioned here that interest rates will remain low in the next few years, and this seems to be the way it is, but when money blows this bubble all the time around the world and everyone is in debt, then yes in this moral Hazard is very close that comes both in the municipalities and the state such an illusion that takes it for money now, because it is cheap and the interest will remain very low, and comes with this kind of investment and competitiveness competition. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. At least in the former world and in history, at some point, this bubble broke out and the values of real estate fell, causing people and businesses to face payment difficulties and became a bank crisis. Would the world have evolved so that things like this don't come? But in some way it is frightening that when you go five to ten years ahead, where does this end up? On the other hand, when we talk about structural changes in municipalities, I personally feel that it is a somewhat unfair debate. Yes, we must begin to reduce the cost structure if we are constantly in debt growth and we are unable to pay it because we do not have the earnings logic in place. I already referred to the EU when it harasss the Finnish forest industry and forestry. It corresponds to 20% of our exports, and somehow the message should go there about how Finland can accept the 750 billion recovery package and, at the same time, Commissioner Timmermans is harassing the Finnish forestry industry and forestry. Some form of conditionality and a message to get there that this will end. I was just reading Traficom's press release, and it says here that it will start negotiations, up to 120 jobs can leave. This is what it's gonna be like for a long time, isn't it? In my opinion, I have not been very critical of the fact that businesses and municipalities receive almost 20 billion dollars in money and debt and net debt, but the last time I spoke, I said whether, over a period of time, there would be some sort of explanation as to how much these have actually gone through because of the interest rate and whether all the nature, length and other construction were actually due to the financing of the interest rate or for some other reason.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u59	Mr President! I wondered for a long time whether I would take part in the debate on the issues raised by Mr Ovaska in a very populist way. It is very unusual to peck at a party and especially at a time when one’s own company has been just as much on the same thing and the same work, and now let’s introduce ourselves as some sort of savior and who makes everything better. I don't understand this kind of thinking. This is really strange, and if you think about the way we work together on these matters even a little bit, this is not going to take you down that road. It is also a little strange that it is not easy to do homework, that it is accused of Häkkä, even though it is a reform of the district court that Lindström initiated. In that sense, too, you go into the woods, and worse. As far as these repairs are concerned, who can fix them and what else will happen in this Chamber with him, and I do not see it in the way that it is now the task of one party or group to be the saving angel that gets to do those repairs. Anyone can make those corrections, we have to make those corrections. It is, in fact, our responsibility, and it is our duty. As far as the opposition is concerned, as is the case with the government parties, corrective movements can be made. As far as the reform of the district court is concerned, it is clearly wrong, it undermines people's access to justice in this country on an equal footing. And as Mr Eestilä has pointed out here, those district courts in theft and Iisalmi must be preserved, it is clear that this country can act as the rule of law should. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u60	Let me remind you of the subject that is being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u61	Mr President! This amending budget has stimulated the debate on debt in several speeches. Last time, Mr Eestilä, for a very long time, reminded us that this debt development has its head and that there must be payers. No one idealises this development of debt, but perhaps it is worth trying to see that this spiral of debt, in which Finland is now genuinely making these amending budgets in relation to this corona crisis, is not unique in the world. This same process is going on everywhere in the same way, and where Finland's competitiveness is deteriorating, as it were in absolute terms, in relative terms, it does not weaken compared to everything else that is happening in the surrounding world economy. Mr President! Here is another angle which may well be raised: economists have already launched a very serious debate on the fact that this economic doctrine is also changing through the corona. We are clearly facing a new situation in which this policy of strict economic discipline, an austerity policy, which in particular flourished strongly after the last financial crisis, is, in a way, at the end of its course, because we also see that economic policy has a role other than this monetary stability, an anti-inflationary policy. The task here is also to see the overall significance of the national economy for economic growth to create these conditions. Of course, the most classic example here is the United States of America, which has been in deficit for half a century: the current account is in deficit, the trade balance is in deficit, the budgets have been in deficit. The advantage of the United States is, of course, that it is such a strong economic power that the dollar as an international reserve currency has been a suitable instrument for exchange, and only by synchronizing the printing works has the United States survived these deficits. By the way, the ECB of the European Union has been doing the same for the last ten years, when we have increased the number of euros, doubled in the international exchange, which tells us that we can also use this as an instrument, as if the process of creating money — someone would say that we are born out of nothing, the President of the Republic has highlighted this. I'm not gonna open it. I'm not gonna open it. I'm not gonna open it. I'm not gonna open it. I just want to say that there is a bigger doctrineal approach to this. Economic policy must have an objective other than to warn public finances that it must be kept under strict control and not to see that a revitalising economic policy will also help in the longer term to achieve a balance in public finances. Of course, in the long run, financial finances, public finances, must be balanced.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u62	Mr President! Much has been said about whether this amending budget is properly targeted and, as the Minister of Finance himself said, there could be more accuracy here — it reflects the difficulty of correcting the effects of this corona pandemic. Of course, the most worrying concern for the Finns is that, even in practice, this amending budget now takes over 1.8 billion additional debts to the state, and this central government debt will increase further. Now, after all, it is EUR 19.6 billion what the government has taken into account in these times, and that in itself worries us, of course, because if we do not continue this exact markka line within the government, then at some point we will run out of money. It's just a fact. However, this clearly shows the composition of the government in the sense that it has now been divided into a little bit of every place, just like with its eyes closed. Everyone gets their own goals, their political goals under the guise of this corona, and that is what the Finns have criticised, and we do not need to give examples now, but this increase in the contribution of the Climate Fund and development aid to this economic situation is, however, an act that could have been considered a little more parliamentaryly. But, Mr President, the fact is that, when all the municipalities invest in combating this corona epidemic in their own way and are faced with considerable additional costs and not all the state subsidies, there is no way to cover all these costs, and now this division is trying to make this division fair in some way, then, of course, the question would have to be asked in this context if the Minister for Finance were here, but there is still one province which receives full compensation according to this report, and it is Åland. Åland has wanted 6 million, and it will receive it, and it will in addition be corrected here in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health's administrative section so that they can spend that money on all covid expenditure, not just testing and tracing. And in that sense — and it is clear that Åland also needs its share of state resources — it seems to be the only province that receives it in full, the other provinces will not receive it on this basis. And this, of course, tells us that one party within the government is capable of standing up to the situation as it is in the situation and that other parties may then not always be so successful in all their goals. But, Mr President, the people most concerned by this development in employment are the Finns. In this draft budget, employment measures and grants to organisations and to them
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u63	Mr President! Seventh draft amending budget. I shall start by saying a few words, then I will make a few criticisms. I personally noticed that a EUR 240 million subscription to the Border Guard is being proposed to justify the conclusion of contracts for the purchase of two new outpost ships, and an additional EUR 120 million for this year. After all, the procurement of the outposts has a significant employment impact, and I think it is important that border control is in good shape. I think it is a great thing that this has been targeted. I do not take the view that, in such a situation of interest rates, this must share opinions, but my point of view is that Finland's border control must be maintained, and I would also have liked to see a significant increase in the Finnish sense of security by adding appropriations to that direction towards the police. But then, to my horror, I must say that, in my time as a Member of Parliament, when I have studied very thoroughly the subjects of the development appropriations allocated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there the Finnish Government has even supported whether Nigeria or Kyrgyzstan, whatever it was, now had such a tobacco culture. I have such opinions that, as far as the Finnish Government is concerned, the smoking problems of a country, that we use the euro from the citizens' tax money for some tobacco education somewhere in the savannahs. I would like an answer from a minister on this matter, as it is the responsibility of the Finnish people to pay for this sort of thing on one side of the globe. Well, now we have 50 million more development funds and now we have EUR 300 million for the capitalisation of Climate Fund Ltd from the Finnish backskin. I would see quite irresponsible in a situation like this when we should support domestic companies and take care of this people to scrap 50 million more on development funds. If we have gone so far as to say that smoking in Nigeria is our concern, then I will now have to look at the additional budget where the 50 million will be allocated. Well, I hope it's a little more sensible than that. I find such additions irresponsible [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u64	Mr President! The debate has already taken place far away from that amending budget and I hope that it will be possible to conclude. Just a couple of corrections. Representative Niikko referred to this interest rate subsidy of 6 million in Åland. Now, if we look at the whole country, a billion and a half dollars will be spent on subsidies for the municipal sector, 0.5% of this will amount to EUR 7.5 million. The population share of Åland is little over 0.5 per cent, and compared to it 6 million is less than 7.5 million when, under the conditions of Åland, this whole decline comes to the province and not to the small municipalities where social welfare and health care are not to be done. Then to this question of development cooperation: the well-known fact is that the corona crisis has weakened the expectations and conditions of living, conditions of between 3 and 4 billion people, very severely. Hundreds of millions of people are facing a hunger crisis and getting worse, and the health crisis affects perhaps 1.5 to 2 billion people more than normal during this corona crisis. Compared to that, this additional investment of 50 million on conditions such as Finland is probably not in any human sense. [Mauri Peltokaan intermediate call—The
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u65	Chairman! The Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Koskinen, is quite right on this point, but when I read about this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, it becomes clear, however, that it will be sufficient to cover all their expenses, including those outside testing and tracing. The population of Åland corresponds to less than 30,000 people of the same size as in Korso, and it is of course worth mentioning now that Korso is the most important place in Vantaa. If this piety were to be used to distribute money to Vantaa, Vantaa would get about 50 million dollars to run these coronas, and we must remember that Vantaa also has an airport and a border, as well as Åland. That’s all right, they’ve probably earned their money, but this example only reflects the fact that some in the government stand up better than others. Of course, I would have expected that the representatives of the Vantaan Parliament in the government would also have stood up a little better, because I have been told that Vantaa will not receive all the money it spends on these interest rate measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u68	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 23/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Presentation, Mr Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u69	Mr President! The Committee on Finance supports the adoption of this proposal by means of a technical amendment and the amendment is aimed at the clarification of the reference provision of the current Income Tax Act. In the expert consultation, this proposal by the government itself was widely supported. It amends the euro limits for depreciation applicable to business taxation, agricultural income tax and forestry. They have not been increased since 2002, i.e. to 18 years, so the committee considers that the increases are necessary and the increases are moderate. According to this proposal, the upper limit for the acquisition of movable fixed assets under the Act on the taxation of business income will be increased to EUR 1200, the ceiling for the tax deduction per year for small purchases will be increased to EUR 3600 from EUR 2500 and the Act on the taxation of industrial income and the Act on Income Tax for Farms will add a new provision on the one-off of expenditure of up to EUR 1200, a new provision but a well-founded simplification of taxation. In addition, it is proposed to increase the threshold for a small purchase of forestry or a one-off depreciation of expenditure within the meaning of the Income Tax Act to EUR 600. These changes to the depreciation provisions increase the ability of taxable persons to appropriately amortise the acquisition costs of fixed assets and prevent differences in depreciation between accounting and non-taxable acquisition costs. In this way, the proposal will reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers and the Tax Administration in an appropriate way. The committee is in favour of a package of amendments. This technical amendment concerns the clarification of the reference provision of Article 115 of the Income Tax Act, and in the proposal Article 8 of the Agricultural Income Tax Act. A new Article 8 will be added to allow for a single removal of a maximum of EUR 1200 for agricultural income tax. This provision should not apply to the single removal of forestry. As a result, the reference to Article 115(2) of the Income Tax Act is deleted from the reference provision to the new Article 8(8). In turn, the cut-off limit for forestry is proposed to be increased from EUR 200 to EUR 600, which corresponds to the same line as for other depreciation provisions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u70	Mr President! The importance of the proposal before us is that it slightly simplifies the income tax of companies. It makes sense for both the administration and the taxable person to increase or set such a limit in the form of a one-off deduction of small expenditure or expenditure. There's a whole new line here. It is also elegant that this should be done openly by amending the law and not left to tax practice. We probably have a patchwork of tax practices in these matters at the moment. In any case, however, it is only a question of amortizing deductible expenditure. It is important to note that the cost of machinery, equipment and equipment likely to have an economic lifetime of up to three years, irrespective of the one-off reduction limits, is still fully deducted in the year in which the payment was made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u71	Mr President! The chairman and the member of the committee presented this very comprehensively so that I will not repeat it. As has been said here, the committee is in favour of the adoption of the proposal as amended and, in consultation with experts, the proposal has been widely supported. Changes to depreciation provisions increase the ability of taxable persons to appropriately amortise the acquisition costs of fixed assets and prevent differences in depreciation between accounting and non-taxable acquisition costs. The proposal thus reduces the administrative burden on taxpayers and the Tax Administration in an appropriate way. The committee is in favour of this change. The amendment concerns a change in the reference provision of Article 115 of the Income Tax Act and Article 8 of the Agricultural Income Tax Act is added to the proposal. According to it, the amount of expenditure on income tax in the agricultural sector up to EUR 1200 may be abolished at one time. However, this provision should not apply to the single removal of forestry. As a result, the reference to Article 115(2) of the Income Tax Act is deleted from the provision of reference to Article 8(8) of the Income Tax Act. In turn, the lower limit for one-off deforestation is proposed to be increased from EUR 200 to EUR 600, which now allows for one-off depreciation. One might now say that, for example, a single removal of a chainsaw will be possible in the next three years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u72	Mr President! I'm sure the opposition doesn't always disagree with the government. I think this is an excellent proposal and, as Mr Kiviranta said, when this is specifically in the law, there will be no problems of interpretation anywhere in Finland when it is brought into the law. When these limits are raised and this is made simpler, I think that this line should perhaps go further so that these conflicts of interpretation do not occur. The opposition is fully supportive.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u73	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 24/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Presentation, Mr Koskinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u74	Mr. Speaker! This proposal concerns a new law on a further reduction in research cooperation related to research and development in the tax years 21 to 25. On the basis of the reasons for the government's proposal and the report it has received, the committee considers it necessary and supports its adoption unchanged. The proposal was widely supported in the expert hearings. However, some experts have drawn attention to the market-compatibility of the subcontracting invoice, which is a prerequisite for further reduction, and the resulting problem of interpretation. In addition, there is concern in the expert hearings that the requirement for the market economy of subcontracting is in practice limited to the scope of the law for order research only. With regard to this first concern, the Committee stresses that sub-invoices refer to sub-invoices paid by a taxable person to an approved research or dissemination organisation in so far as the sub-invoice items relate to research and development activities. In the Committee's view, the pricing of such subcontracting must be such that, from the point of view of state aid regulation, the under- or over-pricing of the invoice does not constitute direct or indirect prohibited state aid. In this way, this will not be a problem for EU legislation either. The Committee considers it important that the law applies to research and development activities within the meaning of the EU General Block Exemption Regulation. Thus, in principle, it covers basic research, industrial research, experimental development and feasibility research. The committee does not consider it appropriate to limit the various research and development activities, for example, on the basis of whether they are commissioned research or research cooperation. The additional deduction is justified by the research and development activities provided for by the law when the other conditions of the law are met. This will allow a wide range of research cooperation with research organisations. The Committee's expert hearings have highlighted the importance of monitoring the proposal, and it is these committee's clarifications and additions in the explanatory statement that seek to ensure that the field of use in which this proposal has been drawn up is realised. It is important that monitoring also shows that its purpose is realised in practice and that there will be no additional restrictions on the scope of its use through the administration, for example. I hope that this too will be adopted unanimously in Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u75	Mr President! Finland's objective is to increase the GDP share of research, development and innovation from the current 2.7% to 4% by 2030. Finland’s relative position as a knowledge society has deteriorated somewhat over the years, although the level of Finnish research is clearly above the world average. However, it is lagging behind many important control countries. This year's fourth amending budget allocated significant additional efforts to support centres of excellence and innovation. A further reduction in research and development, which will be introduced in the fiscal years 2021 to 2025, is also very welcome. The reduction is administratively simpler than the earlier reduction provided for the corresponding purpose. The duration of the deduction is five years, whereas the previous deduction was only valid for 2013 and 2014, i.e. two years. A further reduction will allow companies to cooperate extensively with research organisations. It is important that the various research and development activities are not limited, for example, on the basis of whether they are commissioned research or research cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u76	Mr President! Research and development is very important, and this law is now increasingly seeking to mobilise research and development. A new law on the additional reduction in research related to research and development is now being adopted in the tax years 21 to 25. Taxable persons engaged in business or agricultural activities who carry out research with a research organisation may make additional deductions in taxation. The additional reduction is 50 % of the subcontracted invoices for research projects related to the research and development activities of the company. The maximum tax deduction for the tax year would be EUR 500000 and the lower limit would be EUR 5000. This would therefore be a new tax subsidy which, from the point of view of EU law, would not be State aid. The chairman of the committee went over that subcontracting bill. I would like to say here that the research areas that are to be approved are: The Committee considers it important that the law applies to research and development activities within the meaning of the EU General Block Exemption Regulation. Thus, in principle, it covers basic research, industrial research, experimental development and feasibility research. The committee does not consider it appropriate to limit the various research and development activities, for example, on the basis of whether they are commissioned research or research cooperation. The additional deduction is justified by the research and development activities referred to in the law when the other conditions of the law are fulfilled. This will allow for a wide range of research cooperation with investigative organisations. The Committee's expert consultation has highlighted the importance of monitoring the proposal. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u77	Mr President! As we have heard from several speakers, this is a new further reduction aimed at increasing and supporting research and development, and it is now being done in collaboration with universities and research institutes. We have talked a lot about the need for more investment in R & D in Finland, and I personally believe that any effort to increase R & D is very welcome. Furthermore, I am pleased to welcome the fact that we are also looking for new ways of investing in everything in general, but especially in this. I believe we can also agree that Finland can only succeed by being ahead of others, and in order to be ahead of others, we need research and development on both the public and the business side. The only thing I really did think about was the fact that this is now a temporary opportunity for further reduction and, of course, it is important to monitor how this is going to work, but it is also very important, despite all the positive aspects, to consider whether this has any bearing on the conduct of studies carried out by universities and research institutes. We know that there are limited resources and that the use of staff is already limited, and of course this could now threaten the implementation of basic research and education. Another important issue is economic independence, which is generally important in academic research from the point of view of credibility. Is this going to threaten it in some way — it is also important to look at it here at the same time. I therefore believe that this is a good thing, a positive thing, an innovative new thing, but let us keep in mind that this can also have consequences that we cannot see now and then we do not regard as good. That is why it is important that before a decision is made on the follow-up, a proper comprehensive assessment of what has been achieved and what may have been lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u78	Mr President! It is good that the means of promoting research and innovation are moving forward. Several entries were made in the Government Programme to strengthen the situation and to sustain Finland’s success in this respect. I'm going to pick up a few of these entries on the government program. ‘Along-term plan will be drawn up in Finland to improve the environment andtowards the level of Well, this proposal does not, of course, achieve this on its own, but hopefully we will remember this target of 4 percentage points when considering this sustainable growth programme and its contents. The second point was as follows: ‘Explaining the challenges and opportunities related to the predictability, long-termity and usefulness of research funding. An operational programme for the implementation of appropriate research funding shall be established on the basis of the report.’; It was then recorded: ‘On the basis of the current operating models,the conditions are created for the centres of expertise “ In addition, ‘the cross-border coordination and management of innovation and research policy is strengthenedthrough State administration,the In other words, there are a lot of good objectives that this proposal is now contributing to. This proposal proposes to introduce a law on a further reduction in research co-operation in research and development up to the year 25. According to the proposal, the additional deduction would be justified by all taxable persons engaged in business or agricultural activities who cooperate with a research organisation that meets the definition. The additional reduction would amount to 50% of the costs of subcontracting projects related to the research and development of the company. And the law is meant to come into force from the beginning of next year. In committee, this proposal was considered necessary and appropriate and was also supported by those consulted. The chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen, has already presented an interpretation of the subcontracting bill, which the committee did not find problematic when acting within the framework of EU regulation. I would like to raise this need for follow-up, which has been mentioned here by others. I hope this instrument will help with research funding, but
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u79	Värderade Talman! Ledamot Hopsu tog bull väldigt bra upp utgångspunkterna i regeringsprogrammet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u80	Mr President! It is a good thing that Mr Strand takes a slightly broader view, because that is what all these proposals ultimately have to be linked to, because we cannot just stare at a government proposal. I myself am thinking about this speech and how I am going to present it — whether this is already a label error when the government has to praise it so much. This proposal is excellent, that is simply excellent, and, unlike Mr Salonen, I personally do not see any risk that this may go wrong. Here's a little point I'm going to ask you at the end. Mr Kiviranta rightly said, and I too agree that Finland has always managed and must continue to survive. It is research, development and innovation and has now fallen to 2.7%. Of course, no one can blame it, we have had to adjust the economy, and this is just the problem that comes when the earning logic is not necessarily in order in Finland. As these figures fall rapidly, if we are now at around 2.7% — I do not know what gross domestic product is at present, I would estimate 240 billion — then when Kiviranta presented, which is also the view of the coalition that we are going towards 4% in 2030, that package is about 10 billion. And if I count quickly, then the public side would account for about three and a half billion, and then this money will not come from anywhere in heaven with any plan, but will really have to be made right for working, trying and exporting. As I pointed out earlier in the big picture of economic policy, I have the fear that now that these conservation measures are over-exploited — 30% and strict protection of 10% of land and forest areas — Finland and Finland’s forests are being turned into a landfill of European fossil emissions. This policy will not achieve 4% of GDP in product development and innovation expenditure on an age-old basis. The real question: When this subcontracting is to be targeted at research and development, was there any talk in the section, is there a risk — but there are a variety of activities in the company — that there are problems of interpretation that, as it were, bills do not focus on this very thing, but are used a little more on different issues? Was there a risk? In my opinion, that is the only risk involved in this good government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u81	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Eestilä, for your good remarks and good withdrawals, and also for the intelligent question of these risks, which I hope Mr Koskinen will then answer whether there has been a debate on this. In fact, as I have seen before in these discussions, Finland is only able to innovate and constantly be one step ahead of others, because this kind of natural resources we do not have so much in Finland and that first natural resource has always had the intelligence and ability of Finns to transform. At this point, this target of 4% of GDP for innovation and product development is something that must be consciously pursued, and this proposal seeks to push this forward for its part. I personally see this as a major factor, too, where international investors look at different countries. After all, this presentation brings predictability to that investment environment. In a way, it is worth bringing money to Finland, because there is now a tool like this that can make these deductions. In that sense, I see that the government really took a step forward on this issue. In fact, this is one of the measures that I see as long-term but also short-term employment measures, because this has a clear impact on the fact that money is worth putting in here, and now money is better allocated internally to these different projects and can be used to hire additional hands to do these things. In that sense, the university sector, the business sector and the public sector will certainly see this as a welcome proposal, and this has also been clearly supported across the opposition-government borders, i.e. with strong support — and very good innovation in this innovation tool.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u82	Mr President! There are several speeches here, including Mr Eestilä, underlining, in particular, that this has to be supported in every way and that there is no criticism of this. All of us, most of us, are in agreement that research and product development are an integral part of Finland's competitiveness, if not the most essential part of it today, and that is where Finland's own strength as an industrial expert can be shown. In that respect, this kind of tax deduction incentive for research and product development is in its own way in place. If the President will allow, then when there is such a strong consensus here, I would like a few, let us say, more duubious-type points to this, so that we can see that there is also a side to this. First thing: We do not know for certain that this kind of tax deduction for research and product development would genuinely increase research and product development in companies through its dynamic effects. That's not certain. Second of all: This will clearly reduce the tax base in its own way and, in that sense, of course, it is a problem when our task is to widen the tax base in Finnish society at all, so that we can overcome the problem that Estilä agrees that we too much tax work in this society. It would be necessary to expand the tax base, and there will be a certain reduction here. This will also have such an effect if we consider business structures that only the largest companies in Finland can benefit from this type of tax deduction. However, it is clearly not so strongly linked to smaller companies, which must be taken into account — and it is not a negative factor in this case, but it must be taken into account here. It may also have to be noted that the fact that this tax deduction right is specifically used to subsidise research and product development activities that companies can order from public institutions and universities, for example, is a certain problem in that academic institutions that genuinely operate in the field of free research become increasingly dependent on industry, the economy, commercial research. This has its own problem if we look at university funding in a broader sense, the focus of research in Finland. All of these should be taken into account here, and in that respect it is a good thing that this tax incentive is now of a temporary nature and also of a relatively reasonable scale. It's worth trying to figure this out and see how ideal this is. I wanted to put these duubios here when this consensus here seems so impressive. It is good to see these problematic aspects here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u83	Värderade Talman! Just briefly for these duubies: I myself am quite convinced that everything that promotes this kind of partnership between the public and private sectors will have enormous positive dynamic effects in almost all cases. Let me take one concrete example. We have done a lot of different projects in the Kvarken region in Ostrobothnia, including ordering a new ship together with Umeå. That ship is a research vessel at the same time. There are higher education institutions involved, companies involved, the homeness rate is over 85 per cent. It's built in Rauma, almost a thousand man-years. It has contributed to Wärtsilä’s investment of 200 million. The eight largest companies in Vaasa invested at least 1.2 billion in the Vaasa region over the next three to four years. A lot of other projects are under way. Well, it's not just that one tki platform, but there's a lot more to that ecosystem. These large companies have a huge role to play in these research networks, because it is the small and medium-sized enterprises that are the source of the money, the universities, the research institutes. It also strengthens the expertise and profile of their universities in their global skaba, and in that sense Mr Al-Taee has already made a good point that all these activities also have a strong signal value for other investors, both new and within these global groups. We are really dependent on a few global groups in Finland, and they go internally to a bloody skaba about where we do research: is it in Finland, is it in China, is it in Italy, is it in the USA? At that time, local partnerships and ecosystems of this kind will be extremely important in their internal skaba, which stock exchange companies do not come here for reasons that are clearly understandable, but we must realise that everything we do, which strengthens Finland in the internal skaba of their group, is extremely important, and this must now be taken into account in all these investments and, above all, in these RRF funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u84	After Mr Strand has spoken, it is easy to continue with these same ideas. I see this as a series of different actions that we encourage. I understand that different countries in the business world are scored as investment environments, and here I would read that Finland got one point on the plus side of this point when looking at this cluster in, for example, Rauma or Vaasa or elsewhere: how to get these different kinds of purchases there now, so that the investments can be driven there. Well, there's a bit of utopia here, and it's fine, but we can see quite clearly now that this is a step in the right direction. I would see steps in this series that a good next step would be to reflect on different ideas of tax neutrality, perhaps with the United States or with some other country that has a lot of investment money: for example, can the headquarters of different companies be changed from one place to another so that some of the activities could be held in Finland, for example. And when this tax neutrality is raised on this issue, I could imagine — and there are calculations here — that an American investor will think that if he now invests in this Finnish company and creates a lot of growth there — there are these different reasons why it is worth doing so — then at some point it can also be transferred to the US headquarters if necessary. At this point it is very likely that this transfer will not necessarily take place, but that innovation will then largely remain in Finland. Good, good calculations have been made on this, and there is a lot of support for this idea and it needs to be considered, but at this point I would see that, if we are to achieve this 4% target on product development and innovation issues, we must be innovative ourselves on this issue and find all the tools to achieve it. The money comes mainly from the entrepreneurial field and the business field, much more than from the public sector in the long term, and that must be sought in Finland but also in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u85	Now for the chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u86	Mr President! Thank you for a lively debate. A few comments on this potential distortion of competition. In Finland, a large proportion of these publicly funded institutions are independent; they are not in the same way as in many countries. For example, the university as a whole has been decoupled from the budget economy and universities are in a way a foundation. Then, through them, this kind of latent demonstration of state aid, for example by under-subscribed research order, does not seem very likely, because we have already structurally prevented similar situations. Perhaps the big question we have here is what has already been touched on in the recent speeches: how will these euros invested in research and product development in Finland — that is, directly through universities and through cooperation in order and research and through tax reductions — continue to benefit the Finnish economy, Finland's growth and employment here. There is a big risk that these corporate ideas, ideas and patents will be passed on to the world at a low price. There are thousands of venture capital companies that are hunting ideas and new innovations and at the lowest possible price, and then they are transferred to either cheap labour countries or big business countries — mainly the United States is then the target country in which a good idea will be implemented on a global scale. We need a lot more activity here that Industrial Investment and state-owned companies are going to scale these small companies and ideas in Finland, as well as, of course, private Finnish companies, so that they will remain as useful as possible to the Finnish economy. In order to keep this activity — scaling up, expanding and implementing innovation at home — it must be much stronger for us to regain the benefits of research and product development, either through direct aid or through tax reductions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u87	Mr President! I was inspired by this last speech by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Koskinen. It is absolutely true what he said about how, let us say this, we will easily allow our innovative companies to sell good billboards to these companies that have the opportunity to export them to the world market. However, this has been recognised in Parliament for a long time and, on the other hand, entrepreneurs, or these inventors, have received a lot of feedback over the years. For example, the Inventory Foundation, in a more concrete way at the time, supported these inventors in developing the product’s billboard in order to make it a commercial product. In their view, however, it no longer meets today's need for state aid for these innovations. I would like Parliament to have a proper account of how we can bring these innovations to the benefit of the national economy. I don't know how long we're going to have to run water in the Vantaa River, when, for example, in this Slush — a world-famous meeting place for startup companies and companies that pick up the best berries — we see why we let our best innovations run out of this country so easily. This would be very easy to resolve in such a way that the State Investment Company would be more aggressively involved in these competitions and invest funds in these innovations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u90	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 25/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u91	Mr President! Two very different things have been linked to the same government proposal. First of all, it is proposed to add to the Income Tax Act, the Act on the Taxation of Business Income and the Act on Agricultural Income Tax, provisions on the deductibility of the Aland Islands' media fee in income tax. In the view of the committee, this proposal guarantees equal tax treatment between entities operating in the Åland Islands and in the rest of the kingdom as regards the deductibility of the broadcasting tax and the comparable media levy. — — — — So this was the first thing. Secondly, it is proposed to introduce provisions on the tax exemption for certain measures to support nature conservation and marine management under the Nature Conservation Act and the Law on the Organisation of Water Management and Maritime Management. The Committee on Finance considers it necessary to introduce into the law provisions on exemption from tax on new aid measures for nature conservation, water management and marine management. Regulation thus contributes to the protection objectives of aid and eliminates tax uncertainty. We propose a broad acceptance of this in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u92	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 3/2020 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u93	Mr President! I would like to highlight a few key points after the Committee on Foreign Affairs has discussed the report of the Finnish delegation of the Nordic Council for 2019. Since the 1950s, it has been a cooperation organisation of the Nordic parliaments. Among other things, the Council promotes freedom of movement and cooperation within the Nordic countries in a wide range of areas. The Nordic Council's field of action is very wide and the Finnish delegation has been active again. We discussed in committee that the whole Parliament should be committed to Nordic cooperation on a wider scale. It is now easy to preserve and promote this important cooperation only on the shoulders of the Nordic Council delegation. I therefore encourage all my fellow parliamentarians to work closely with their Nordic sister parties and committees. This is particularly the case during the corona period, when normal visits cannot be carried out, it is good to keep the threshold for participation in distance meetings low. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is therefore actively interacting at a distance with other colleagues from the Nordic and Baltic countries. Together, we can strengthen the security and well-being of our region and increase our weight on international issues. Mr President! We in the committee welcomed the continuation of efforts in the area of border cooperation. In addition to dismantling border barriers, it is important to prevent them when creating new legislation. This also requires close and regular cooperation with our Nordic colleagues. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, cooperation on trafficking in human beings between the police and other authorities in the Nordic countries also emerged as a single example of well-functioning and effective Nordic cooperation. We hope that this good work will continue to be promoted. In addition, the annual report highlighted the desire of parliamentarians to strengthen the parliamentary dimension of defence policy. The Committee on Foreign Affairs welcomes the interest in cooperation on security and defence policy. Baltic Sea cooperation with the Baltic countries is also considered important. Mr President! As regards cooperation between the Nordic countries and Russia, the Committee on Foreign Affairs stressed the importance of parliamentary dialogue. It is good that the Nordic Council has continued its dialogue with the Russian parliamentarians. Otherwise, the contacts of parliamentarians with Russia are perhaps too thin today. Finally, I would like to highlight the Nordic Council's cooperation with Belarus. As the events of this autumn have shown, Belarus needs support in its democratic development, and it is good that this work is being done within the Nordic Council. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that I would like to thank the members of the Nordic Council for their active work on promoting Finland's affairs. The committee has no comments on the report. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u94	Irade the Talman! Den rauta verksamhetsberättelsen är bra, viktig och intressant, speciellt i skenet av det som har hent etter året som den behandlar. Under verksamhetsåret 2019 antag de nordiska länderna målet att bli världens mest hållbara och integrade region före 2030. Visionen hade tre prioriterade områden: ett grönt Norden, ett kkonkurrenskraftigt Norden och ett socialt hållbart Norden. Mycket ambithioösa mål som jag delar varmt. Vi har dock en bit kvar till att bli världens mest hållbara och integrade region, vilket årets kris tydligjort. Det nordiska samarbetet är för oss socialdemocracy viktigt och självklart. Det nordiska samarbetet har dock tags sig en ön av coronapandemin, och det har tydligt klarnat att samarbetet måste utvecklas för att vara relevant också i kristider. Samtidigt är jag glad över att mycket av Nordiska rådets och Nordiska ministerrådets viktiga arbete har municipalities fortsätta. Möten har hållit på distans, arbetet har fortlöpt och på sessionsveckan som var helt digital deltog till och med FN:s generalsekrerererere. Det är också glädjande att våra finländska ministrar har haft ett forzatt gott samarbete med nordiska kollegor trots krisen, och att man har samarbetat på många områden, det är viktigt och fint. Den auri krisen, som visserligen inte på något sätt är över, har visat behovet av ett okat nordiskt samarbete och behovet av ett nordiskt samarbete som är relevant också i kristider. Jag tror det finns en enorm styrka i att i framtide samarbeta mer kring henteringen av pandemier och andra allvarliga kriser. Vi behöver, som statsministern effectlyste, en mer gemensenam strategist på EU-nivå, men därtilll vill jag destroy ett ännu djupare och konkretare samarbete mellan de nordiskaländerna, ett samarbete som fungerar också i kriser så att vi tillsammans kommer över dem battre.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u95	Mr President! Indeed, the report on the work of the Nordic Council is extremely important, and I believe that this corona crisis has also shown how important Nordic cooperation can be at all levels. I wish that the following year we could do something. In the Nordic Council, closer cooperation is particularly important in terms of how we combat corona virus in the Nordic countries. Since this close cooperation has not been done, in my own country, Lapland, for example, there has been enormous suffering when the borders had to be closed. We are used to being a unitary area in the Tornio River Valley, we are a unitary area in the north on the border with Norway. Those boundaries don't exist there. If a person has not lived there, it may be difficult for him to understand this. Now the crisis has shown how painful it will be if the borders have to be closed. We've had to separate family communities from each other. We have border trade stopped in some of these areas. I personally believe that the Nordic countries should be able to decide together what measures we are taking to combat the corona virus in such a way that we are able to maintain its most open border between Europe and the world. I really would like to see the next time we deal with the annual report, this issue would have been put at the centre — open borders, that is what we need at the borders with the Nordic countries, and that is what we have to work towards and fight for.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u96	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niikko, opened his own proposal by considering that a debate such as the Nordic Council's annual report should be held here in Parliament more often. He is quite right that these international issues, Finland's external relations, are not the main themes of this plenary agenda in general, and we, who sit in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, of course, find it a little problematic that Parliament does not really recognise where Finland sits and stands and what the interactions with the outside world are, because they also have a major impact on Finland's situation and development. Now we have two consecutive documents here. The second is the Nordic Council's annual report, and the next item, if I read the agenda correctly, is the report of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. This is, of course, a good time for us to think a little about what these organisations mean in the sense of expanding to Finland and why Finland is involved in them. Joining the Nordic Council for Finland in 1955 was a big step. It was as big a step as it was when Finland joined the United Nations in exactly the same year, when, in a way, Finland took its place in the world community from the post-war isolation state, where Finland had, in its own way, fallen. We became part of the Nordic community, and I could say that the reference group, the five Nordic countries, has formed a central forum for cooperation, and to a great extent, when the international issue is considered and seen, the Nordic countries are very, very many for that ideal society. I have to judge myself when I look at the world on a scale, which is well-being. Equality, the rule of law, numerous other forms of society are being built here, which Finland has also carried out through its democracy. We are grateful for this Nordic cooperation. The common labour market, which was born here in the past, has been a key factor in tying Finland into a wider community. This is an important example of how important international interaction is to us. For a long time, the Nordic Council did not address security policy issues at all. They were like taboos. They didn't want to touch them. It had its own reasons. Finland was one of the countries that did not very strongly want to raise the debate on security policy there. But then, when the confrontation of the Cold War erupted, the Nordic Council also had a genuine security policy debate, and that is a good thing. Perhaps the only additional factor I could add to this debate is that the Nordic Council consists of these five Nordic countries and then these autonomous regions are involved, including the Faroe Islands and Åland, Greenland. Would there be any possibility of considering — and at some point we have tried to think about it — when the Baltic States have now become independent and formed their own Baltic Assembly, that this interaction between Baltic Assembly and the Nordic Council could even intensify in the direction that the Baltic States would become involved in this Nordic country?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u97	Mr President! Last year, Iceland chaired the Nordic Council of Ministers, and the Prime Ministers agreed that Nordic cooperation will focus more on climate change and sustainable development in the future. It was decided to adopt a new vision aimed at making the Nordic Region the most sustainable and integrated region in the world by 2030. This vision had three priorities: the green Nordic Region, the competitive Nordic Region and the socially sustainable Nordic Region. This objective is important and worthy of support. However, in order to achieve this objective, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy points out in its own report that concrete steps should now be taken to make the region the most integrated in the world. This means that mobility should be improved and border barriers should be dismantled even further, as we have already heard before. The committee also calls for the harmonisation of all legislation in the preparation of new legislation, particularly with Sweden, and this of course requires very close contact, not only with officials but also with politicians, with all the Nordic countries, but especially with our neighbouring countries, so that we can and can further promote this. Another important point raised by the committee in its report is that the Nordic Council will continue to work to support the democratic process in Belarus. The main theme of the Belarus conference, which took place just this year, was the poor state of press freedom in the country, and the Baltic States are participating in this. Well, that time to this day has only become more obstacles. In fact, this whole theme of the Nordic Council’s 2019 ‘Agriculture and democracy in the Nordic countries’is still being implementedin the Nordic countries,even if it is in a reduced form,butin all the world,democracyis being the subject of a high-level crisis,and also in the Nordic countries — certainly with popular support and approval Finally, I would like to point out that attention must also be paid to the forthcoming presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, until 2021, when Finland will then:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u98	Mr President! I would like to raise a few extremely important issues in relation to Nordic cooperation. The report shows that much good is done, but it has far too little impact on the big picture of Nordic cooperation. The appreciation and importance of Nordic cooperation has been affected by our close involvement in the EU. In this situation, especially now that we are in the midst of a crisis and will be for a long time, we should realise that it is close to the most natural cooperation. Then, of course, I would like all the prime ministers in the Nordic countries to raise the profile of Nordic cooperation and increase its real effectiveness. Korona has now created quite a lot of conflicting sentiments and even real conflicts, especially between Sweden and the other Nordic countries, and we need to overcome that. This means, of course, that each country, including Sweden, looks in the mirror and humbly states that now that they have changed their strategy for the corona, they could perhaps appreciate and show the neighbours that you really did choose perhaps more wisely than we did. When you think about solutions in the future, we will certainly face different kinds of crises than this corona crisis at the moment, and that could be the solution for us, all the Nordic countries, to make such major decisions on this type of crisis on the basis of commonly agreed expert consultations, on the basis of large amounts of information, so that everyone has the same basic information when these important decisions are taken. Second: The economically strong Nordic region is certainly an important goal for all of us, and that means that we will also learn from other countries in what has been done. Until now, Finland has achieved much better in the quality of education than Sweden, and Sweden has also understood it. It is, of course, hoped that the extension of compulsory education will not weaken and lead us into the Swedish path. Also, the social reform that is coming: in Sweden, it has been said by experts that there is an inefficient, expensive and slow social structure which also increases inequality. This is one of those things that you should pay attention to. In other words, learn from each other and make wise joint decisions and look at the broad knowledge and knowledge base when making common decisions. More such better Nordic cooperation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u99	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the previous speech: more better cooperation between the Nordic countries. This has been pointed out right now in times of crisis. It has been a great pity that the Nordic Council has now been unable to meet only with limited distance connections. In this report from our committee, we have also emphasised this Nordic EU cooperation, which is that we have now established this European office, but we also believe that, above all, we should improve the cooperation of committees, counterpart committees and ensure that the Nordic countries, together, are more actively seeking a solution to the various issues at EU level. After all, we are quite like the so-called bulldozers when all the Nordic countries there at EU level are pulling in different directions when there is a question, but it would of course be important to try to coordinate and seek solutions in time. The points of association mentioned here are also the situation in Belarus. After all, at the moment, Finland is collecting support from the EU countries for the appeal for human rights and in relation to the situation in Belarus and these possible World Hockey Championships, and it will certainly be heard next week, but if nothing is done at EU level now, then I believe that the next starting point is that the Nordic level will then approach each other and ensure that those Games are not organised in Belarus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u100	Värderade Talman! Good speeches have been made, and I think that Mr Niikko, who was right there – probably left for a while – also gave a good first speech calling on the whole Parliament to take a better stand and join the Nordic partnership, at the level of the people and through the Parliament. I would like to raise one, second dimension: it is also extremely important that local and regional cooperation is carried out every day in different regions. Mr Kärnä spoke well about the situation in Lapland: there are really no limits in everyday life. We have a little bit of the same thing: although we have a little water between the North Poles and Västerbotten, there is interaction there every day. It also grows more and more into a single working area, and we — the sub-regions and Västerbotten — have become a powerful umbrella of rain such as that of the Council of the Seas. There are the central cities and others involved, and that region and organisation will now become the first such joint Nordic EGTC area, i.e. this kind of European regional cooperation group. Let us hope that this will also further strengthen the voice of the regions, including in Brussels. We already have a lot in common — there is a joint port company, a shipping company and so on, but I also see that there is cooperation in the health sector and in education, but there is still a lot of strategic work to be done, such as RDI. We have a lot in common, including from the point of view of energy technology and the battery industry, cleantech and so on. Of course, now that we have had this interest rate, we have actually seen what it means when the borders are also closed in the Nordic countries, where we are used to that openness. I remember asking my colleague, Löfström from Åland, then in the spring what you have done today, he had personally helped the Åland man to get special medicines from Sweden. I myself had helped one VAS technology company get a wind power installer into Norway that day. That was quite a hand-on job. Let us hope that such restrictive measures will also be better coordinated and secured in the future. It was not taken for granted at the time of the spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u101	Mr President! The more unstable the time we live in, the more important it is for the Nordic countries to cooperate in a unique way. In 2019, the Nordic Council Presidency was chaired by Sweden, which, during its term, sought to pay particular attention to the importance of democracy for the well-being of the Nordic countries. The Swedish Presidency also highlighted the fact that this unique cooperation is based on broad public support. The Committee on Foreign Affairs welcomes the fact that, as in recent years, security policy in line with the broad concept of security was also on the agenda of the Nordic Council during the reporting year. This was reflected in the preparation and adoption of the Council's Social Security Strategy. This strategy was adopted at the Nordic Council plenary session in October 2019 and was then given to Nordic governments. Finland is still one of the safest countries in the world. The safety of everyday life affects us all, and it is also related to the safety of the whole of the Nordic region. The overall security of our society consists of many factors. It requires constant preparation and joint work from us, including Nordic cooperation. We are prepared for disturbances and abnormal circumstances by securing the vital and essential functions of our society: leadership, international action, defence capability, internal security, economy, infrastructure, security of supply, the functioning and services of the population, and the mental resilience of the crisis. In this way, people, the environment and possessions can be safe. This will help to counter threats to national security if necessary. This guarantee of overall security is long-term cooperation between all actors at all levels of society. Mr President! Finland and the Nordic countries do not live in a sealed world of interdependence. We are not currently facing a military threat, but the situation can change quickly. The confrontation between the great powers has deepened. The international treaty system has deteriorated. Terrorism, organised crime, extreme weather phenomena and pandemics create uncertainty. Our country's defence capability is based on general military duty, trained reserves, skilled personnel, defence of the country as a whole and a high will to defend the country. The defence of our country must be provided under all circumstances on land, at sea, in air and in information networks. Security of supply is an important part of the overall safety of our country and the Nordic countries. It involves self-sufficiency in food and fuel. We must ensure that domestic local food is produced. We must not be too dependent, for example, on imported electricity. This time of interest rate, as has been mentioned in many speeches, has also been a test of the effectiveness of cooperation in the Nordic countries. Of course, remote meetings are better than nothing, but face-to-face encounters are needed. Finland has managed to cope well with the conditions, but our neighbours are currently doing worse. Everything needs to be learned for future crises. We need the cooperation that Mr Kärnä called for here, among other things. One of our most recent challenges is the information impact of groups and individuals. It seeks to influence public opinion, people's behaviour and decision-makers. The aim is to cripple decision-making and to weaken society. This is done by giving false information, by causing confusion, by dividing people into groups, by exacerbating the atmosphere of conversation, by distorting proportions and by raising suspicions about the actions of the authorities. Good general education gives the best resistance to information influence. That's why you should go to school, trust the researched information, and find out. It is therefore also worth cooperating with the Nordic countries in the field of education. I warmly support the deeper cooperation that Mr Ovaska has raised in the committees of opposition. I am concerned that our vision — In the Nordic Region, the most sustainable and integrated region in the world — education is missing as one priority area. We must not forget education and its importance for our common future. Mr President! The Nordic Council Social Security Strategy contains recommendations and measures to improve Nordic social security. These include developing a joint Nordic situation picture and exchanging best practices in the fight against hybrid and cyber threats between the Nordic countries, as well as strengthening police cooperation. Now is a good time to deepen our cooperation. Make a safe and durable and integrated Nordic together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u102	Mr President! It is difficult to take the floor after Reverend Kinnus, an expert in love with one’s neighbor. All in all, it was good enough and exhaustive to thank only Mr Kinnuse. In my own speech, I would like to draw attention to Hansel Oy's activities, public procurement, which Hansel supplies. There has been a change in Hansel's law which enables Hansel to make purchases in cooperation, more widely in Europe, but above all in the Nordic countries. On this issue, I see that neither Hansel nor any public procurement has yet been properly observed. I know that we have cases where, for example, stones have been purchased from China to pave a road, and this is really sad. This should not be the case, because the post-processing of the stone after it has travelled from China to Finland is, however, rather limited. That value added is very low and projects of this kind should not be seen here, where we can do much better ourselves and much closer. This is one. The other side is the social dimension of public procurement. In the procurement criteria, no law prevents locality and identification of the profile of a particular activity from allowing them to be bought close, very close to the municipality that makes the order, or close to the state, such as Sweden or Norway, or even closer to anything. On these issues, I would like us to finally be able to put much more effort into making public procurement more precise in the Nordic framework. In this regard, we make some 35 billion public procurements here in Finland and Sweden — I do not know the figure, but I assume it is even bigger, and Norway is probably even bigger. At this point I would see the point that it would be reasonable for these competitions to be made jointly so that, when these orders are made, if there is a need for certain material on any road, and if the same material is needed in Sweden or Denmark or Iceland or Norway, then it would be possible to make such a larger purchase, so that the price settles in such a way that Finnish companies, Swedish companies, Nordic companies in general
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u103	Now the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u104	Mr President! It is good to hear that there is also an interest outside the Committee on Foreign Affairs in strengthening such parliamentary cooperation between the Nordic countries, and I hope that it will also be reflected in other committees. Of course, it is clear that we work very closely with many countries, above all by meeting regularly. One example I would like to highlight is the very good way in which Parliament keeps in touch with our colleagues. This is the case, for example, with German-speaking states, with which Finns have met each year for decades in football. Germany, Switzerland and Austria are countries that many others would like to join, but Finns have had strong ties there for a long time. Such a joint meeting can be arranged in the name of a theme as a theme, but the main thing is that it would be regular and continuous. For example, in the spring of winter, when we saw the corona spreading across Europe, even news was heard that in some countries the transport of facial masks or hospital supplies from one country to another was blocked simply because the goods were not allowed out of that country. If these countries had such direct interaction with the opposite committees and colleagues, these issues would be quickly resolved without having to have a day or week-long debate through the media. I believe that any relationship of this kind will be beneficial. Above all, when it comes to the importance of such cooperation on security and defence policy in Finland, it would also be good if we in Parliament also had a more joint debate in this House on foreign and security policy, so that it is not limited to the Committee on Foreign Affairs or the Committee on Defence. In that sense, it may certainly be necessary to present initiatives, initiatives for discussion and initiatives to launch such activities that we can strategically discuss these issues together and accordingly also seek closer cooperation with countries that contribute to Finland's security and defence environment. Mr President! We have been working with the Nordic and Baltic countries, as I mentioned in my speech, for example on the theme of corona on a regular basis. We have now become a habit of meeting regularly with the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Nordic and Baltic countries and of exchanging experiences and views on the impact of the corona on our people. As an example, I'm going to raise it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u105	Irade the Talman! Jag vill tacka alla som har talat ox, också utskottets ordförande som både i sitt inledningsanförande och också nu lyfte upp valddigt många viktiga saker. Det nordiska samarbetet har ju långa traditioner, och den fria rörligheten är det som är grunden till att samarbetet har utvecklats och gått framåt. Den inriktning som det nordiska samarbetet har nu tycker jag är bra och för framåt, men vi får ändå inte glömma bort det glömma grundläggande utbytet när det gäller de personliga relationshiperna, som det har kommit fram raj, på parliamentarisk nivå, på regeringsnivå förstås, men också bland medborgarna generalt, och där har Pohjola-Norden och andra föreningar en viktig roll att spela.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u107	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 4/2020 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u108	Mr President! The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) is an organisation comprising 57 participating countries. The Finnish delegation consists of six full members and six alternates. The chairman is Mrs Vilhelm Junnila, representative of the Finnish People's Party. The aim of the OSCE is to promote dialogue between Member States and to take a position on disputes and compliance with the obligations of Member States in the region. The OSCE seeks to increase the security of its Member States and addresses the issue in a broad range of aspects. The most important are arms control, democracy, human rights and economic and environmental security. The Committee on Foreign Affairs drew the attention of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to the fact that the tense international political situation was also reflected in the General Assembly's activities during the reporting year. This is illustrated, for example, by the fact that no agreement was reached on the final document of the General Assembly during the reporting year. The focus of the debate was the conflicts in Ukraine and Nagorno-Karabakh and the situation in the crisis outbreaks in the Caucasus. Despite the tensions, the General Assembly was active. Both the election observation work carried out by the General Assembly and the active participation of the Finnish delegation in election observation missions, the development and follow-up of election observation work were considered important by the committee. In its deliberations, the committee takes note of the active work of the Finnish delegation and of the fact that members of the delegation have received a number of positions of trust in matters such as mediation. Mr President! Although the report concerns 2019, the Committee on Foreign Affairs drew attention to the fact that the covid-19 pandemic has prevented the organisation of formal meetings of the General Assembly since March 2020 and has otherwise hampered the functioning of the General Assembly. The committee stresses that, in the current international political situation, there is a particular need for the work of the OSCE and its General Assembly. The committee supports the work of the Finnish delegation in order to ensure the operation of the General Assembly. For example, it is important to look for solutions to enable electronic voting. It is important that the General Assembly should be able to continue both political dialogue and, for example, election observation missions. Mr President! Here is a brief outline of the main comments made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the report. The committee has no comments on the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u109	Mr President! International multilateral cooperation, multilateralism, has experienced great opposition throughout the world over the last few years. Nor has the backwardness of global cooperation been helped by the fact that the United States has, at the request of its previous leadership, withdrawn from the field of active foreign policy and international cooperation. We hope that, for example, climate work will now have a change to this. Protectionism has therefore not only been practised in economic policy, but has also recently been reflected in the fight against climate change, crisis management and human rights work. In view of the growing nationalism, the decline in democracy and freedom of expression and the rise in extremism, the development of Europe and its neighbouring regions is extremely worrying. On the contrary, we need more cooperation and international leadership rather than introverting the nation states. Multilateral cooperation is particularly important in a rapidly changing world where phenomena and challenges cross national borders. At the latest, the Korona virus has demonstrated the importance of international cooperation and coordination. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) plays an important role in promoting cooperation and security. The current corona crisis and the human rights violations under its guise around the world, the Nagorno-Karabakh War, President Lukashenko's autocratic actions in Belarus, Russia's illegal actions to annex Crimea and the ongoing conflict in Eastern Ukraine are precisely the examples of international events where the OSCE's role can be central. We need responsibility and leadership in a time when countries do not always seem to see beyond their own borders. What have we done in the Finnish OSCE delegation in the last year? The year of the OSCE delegation in Finland was somewhat incomplete, like many other activities due to the corona virus. Last year we had time to attend three parliamentary assemblies. The first was held in Luxembourg, the second meeting took place in Marrakech in Morocco and the third in Vienna in Austria in February. In general meetings, the debate would stimulate issues such as energy security, immigration, xenophobia, trafficking in human beings and climate change. As a result of the interest-rate crisis, the OSCE has organised several webinars for delegations on topical topics, and the work has continued at a distance and in specific tasks. I myself have raised the importance of international cooperation in safeguarding human rights and minority rights at meetings. I have also wanted to emphasise the role of inter-religious dialogue in the work of peace. 80 percent of the world’s population belong to a religious community, so we need understanding and dialogue of different religions. I expressed the hope that religious leaders would demonstrate by their own example that incitement to hatred is wrong and that dialogue between religions requires all parties. Discrimination, intolerance and xenophobia cannot be combated without understanding where they come from. The causes of hate speech are exclusion, poverty, inequality, lack of participation, lack of basic education, violence and the weakness of society’s institutions. Furthermore, social media, on the one hand, makes it possible to foment hatred, but on the other hand it has also allowed people to follow unwanted phenomena and flagrant human rights violations before even very closed countries have been exposed. The OSCE also actively participates in the election observation activities of its Member States with the aim of monitoring and improving the rule of law. I have participated in the OSCE Monitoring Mission in Uzbekistan and now in the corona era in Georgia. In its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs highlights the importance of Finland's participation in election observation to support the proper conduct of democratic elections and to demonstrate the importance of the fact that, despite exceptional circumstances, the electoral term is not to be extended, but to seek corona-proof solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u110	Mr President! We therefore have an annual report from the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on the Finnish delegation, and we are well aware that the OSCE is not just any organisation from a Finnish perspective. The OSCE is often associated with the concept of the spirit of Helsinki. The OSCE’s predecessor or, in fact, the core is at an OSCE conference which was held in Helsinki in 1975 and which then created a forum for cooperation between the various parties in a divided Europe to discuss common security. By the beginning of the 1990s, after the break-up of the Cold War, the OSCE Conferences became an OSCE organisation and became a charter which essentially created this so-called broad concept of security, which is based on the fact that security is common, indivisible. We do not build security at the expense of another neighbor, at the expense of the other side, but everyone's insecurity is common. Another key element is that we talked about broad security, not only military threats, but also broader understanding of other types of threats, external threats in society. This pandemic situation that we have right now is a good example of that. And thirdly — and that was the real innovation in the OSCE’s eyes — we are no longer talking about the security of states alone, but about the safety of citizens, people, that is, human rights became part of the security architecture that was being created in Europe, and that is why we understand the depth of this broad concept of security. Mr President! I am currently wearing an orange shirt, which is a sign of the Istanbul agreement, which aims specifically at combating violence against women. Today is the day that we celebrate around the world with that orange colour, and it is linked to the OSCE and to this aspect of human rights, which the OSCE has also been promoting in its own way. It's important to pay attention to this. Both the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Mr Hopsu referred in their own speeches to those areas of activity in which the OSCE has been particularly active. It has worked far on the side of so-called hard security, creating a bridge over contradictions. It is very important that the OSCE includes both the United States and Canada on the other side of the Atlantic and the countries that are now closely associated with Russia, and the whole of the European Union is there on the basis of its Member States, i.e. it is a broad forum for cooperation. It has played a key role in arms control. Contractual arrangements for midway missiles were negotiated largely within the framework of the OSCE-formula. Confidence-building measures have been the big, big dimension that sought to monitor armaments readings on both sides, supported disarmament activities back in the 1990s, strongly at the beginning of the 21st century. They were all big steps. It is regrettable that today, in Europe, this tense situation of the major powers, with many elements, as already mentioned in the preliminary speeches, has created a situation where the OSCE has become more of a forum of strife than a forum of cooperation. It is very visible today in the situation in the OSCE. The meetings of the Permanent Council are almost mutual accusations on this axis of confrontation, and it is not in line with the spirit of Helsinki that we have wanted to take forward, where through discussion, dialogue, cooperation, a forum for cooperation would be created. The OSCE has also played a key role in monitoring the so-called frozen conflicts. OSCE missions work in several countries, but above all in these frozen conflicts: the situation in Transnistria in Moldova, 5+2-formula, specifically the OSCE formula; In Georgia, the OSCE played a long-standing role — when this crisis broke out, the European Union was given a role in it, the UN more than perhaps the OSCE; and the OSCE has played a very central role in the Minsk process, which is linked to the Nagorno-Karabakh crisis, in which the OSCE has been the body. The Presidencies there, then — Russia, the United States and France — have taken this process in Minsk forward. We have just witnessed this tragic situation this autumn, in which Armenia and Azerbaijan were plunged into armed conflict, an extremely intense war effort, with regard to the Nagorno-Karabakh crisis. It has now found a peace solution, a temporary peace solution, weapons have been silenced. Russia has taken a very central role in this situation. That's where the Russian Peacekeepers come to oversee that truce, as it were. The essential thing is that the Nagorno-Karabakh crisis is not yet over, because the agreement that was made to this effect is not yet defining the status of Nagorno-Karabah. There is a need for discussion here, and I am sure that the OSCE and the Minsk process will still have their space in that regard. I see that the time has now passed, so let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u111	Mr President! After this speech by Kimmo Kiljunen, who included a great deal of expertise, expertise and understanding, I myself will be content not with my original speech, but simply to raise my voice and praise Finland. So we have had to give a lot of expertise and expertise to the OSCE, such as, for example, Mr Kiljunen. As far as election observation is concerned, Ilkka Kanerva has been very prominent over the years, and as is also stated in this report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Finland is also highlighted with merit in the field of mediation, and Johannes Koskinen, Inka Hopsu and Kimmo Kiljunen are raised. I hope I didn't leave anyone out of this. Very good speeches have been made above, showing a deep understanding and competence in the OSCE's activities and a general understanding of security and mediation in the field of election observation. I would therefore like to thank these representatives for the work they have done.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u112	Mr President! The OSCE is a very important forum, but, as in most cases in the UN, the forum itself may be contentious before going to the level of concrete. In the UN, vaccinations, food programmes, different human rights-related work, and in the same way in the OSCE, mediation and arms control — concrete actions are on the ground, huge, enormously important to maintain. At this point I would see that, although we may sometimes criticise the OSCE — I myself have sometimes been an expert at those meetings, and that place looks contentious — so often when you go to the airport, you see that you can promote things. When I have been involved, I have found that it is often the Finns who are valued and trusted in this mediation process, and that is why I feel that the OSCE is, as previous speakers have said here, a very central forum for us to continue to maintain and support — also because of the change of leadership in the United States. It would make sense, in the time of future President Biden, to be able, through the OSCE Forum, also to increase understanding and empathy, the importance of limiting various missiles, especially weapons of mass destruction missiles, by means of some new agreements and the renewal of agreements. This is now four years, at best eight years, to strengthen the role of the OSCE from this point of view and thus to strengthen Europe's peace and world peace on these issues. That is also why I feel that it is important for the Finnish delegation in the OSCE to keep Finland's positions on the agenda and to strengthen mediation and peace work in the OSCE Forum.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u113	Mr President! It was valuable to listen to Mr Salonen and Mr Al-Tae. I would like to add that we see this context correctly. In this regard, Mr Salonen thanked — and it seems to have gone away — MPs who have played important roles in various international situations from election observation to various special representatives’ missions, and Mr Al-Taee referred to this aspect of mediation. I would like to say from my own experience, or not from my own experience, but from a broad perspective of what has been born here, that Finns are willing to help in international situations, if help is needed, good services, but that you are Finnish does not help much. It helps a lot that Finland is an active member of an international context, an organisation, and in that situation the situation will easily arise that the Finnish passport is a valuable currency, because then it will be easy to introduce an active Finnish actor in a variety of difficult negotiations, conflict situations, and then we will have a bigger role to play, we who are actively involved than we might otherwise be able to do. Let us start now with Ilkka Kanerva, who is currently the OSCE Special Representative for Mediation: we have also had the opportunity to conduct these election observation missions in the event of election observation. I myself have once been a special representative for Central Asia in the OSCE, and also as a special representative for Moldova, have been directly involved in situations where there have been very violent arrangements, and it has been necessary to build this peace mediation capacity, and it has helped to have been this Finnish status and OSCE organisation. We do not have the annual report of the Council of Europe on the table, but it came here earlier. In this situation in Belarus, among other things, we have the opportunity today to help because we work in an international organisation and as Finns we have this good approach in that we prefer to be doctors rather than judges, and we are helping this process now in the solution. This often creates this pattern. That is why it is valuable for us to recognise this at this parliamentary level, too, that parliamentarians often do parliamentary work in these international organisations in this form.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u114	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. First signatory of the initiative, Mr Kiljunen Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u115	Mr President! This has now been the subject of successive speeches. I think that colleagues are already a little tired when one and the same representative are involved in many points, but now it is a coincidence that led to this situation. We now have a citizens' initiative on... I am sorry, the bill on the citizens' initiative — let us take a precise wording here. After a long debate in Finland in 2012, the citizens' initiative institution was introduced in part in the European Union, where this citizens' initiative became part of the Treaty of Lisbon. To put it bluntly, the institution of citizens' initiatives came to stay. It is clearly the expression of direct democracy in our representative democracy. This is where citizens are able to take the initiative to bring about legislative initiatives. Fifty thousand signatures were placed in Finland, and in six months the 50,000 signatures have to be assembled. This institution has worked excellently in terms of the fact that we already have a large number of thousands, I think there was that figure — I have just checked — of 1143 citizens' initiatives that have been taken so far. Fifty-three of them have received 50,000 signatures, and they have ended up here in Parliament, and two have also led to legislation. These figures are large, particularly large are the number of these citizens' initiatives. What is also big is how the citizens have taken this initiative. I know that in less than ten years, when more than a thousand initiatives have been taken, people have made great efforts to make their voices heard through this citizens' initiative, to raise some social problem that would be the subject of a genuine debate. We must thank civil society for responding to this cry and the possibility that we also want to have a direct impact on legislation. Now I have one problem, and that is what this bill is about: we may not have been able to meet this need, through this institution of citizens' initiatives, and there are now two angles to this problem, and that is why I wanted to do this legislative reform here. Mr President, I personally have experience of this citizens' initiative. I have launched a citizens' initiative which also led to it — in fact, I have launched two, but one of them led to it — that it came to this House for discussion. Unfortunately, that discussion was then a little more modest in nature, which also increased to see the importance of this institution. But I know what it means to put together that 50,000 names. It is a huge effort — it is a huge effort. Most often the question is that you need to get the mainstream media to support you in one way or another, to inform you that this kind of thing is going to make it happen. In that sense, the media have a great opportunity to exercise power. But it is a huge effort for citizens, for NGOs who are active in these matters, and it must be respected that people try and work on these issues. Now the idea is to value this institution of citizens' initiatives to the extent that it does not simply require the 50,000 signatures, when it comes as a legislative initiative here in Parliament, but to enable the same situation as we in Parliament have: we can make a legislative initiative — which, although rarely leads to any results, the President well knows — but perhaps even more importantly, we can ask written questions to the ministers, and we will get an official answer to it, and it will then come up. We get our concern, our question, the answer that can also be used publicly. Why could this institution of citizens' initiatives not be developed in such a way that if the number of signatures is more than 10,000 but is less than 50,000, then 10,000 signatures would be compared to this question by a Member of Parliament to the Minister? It would then be publicised, a debate would take place, the efforts made by the citizens' initiative would receive the attention they deserve. Let me tell you, Mr President: collecting 10,000 names is a huge deal. It's a big deal, and it's got 10,000 citizens back then. It is already an important issue and it deserves to be dealt with in a way by the Ministry, and this matter should be taken into account here. Another problem here is that when you have to collect those names in six months, this causes the problem that it little depends on when the project has started. Holidays, holidays — it has all sorts of other factors that affect it, and in a way this media publicity, which is often dominant, would become less important if this collection period were exactly one year. It would then be independent of investing in a specific point in relation to holiday periods and so on. These are the main elements of this bill: 10,000 signatures would be enough to deal with it like a written question to the Minister, and then this idea that this collection period would be one year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u116	Mr President! Citizens' initiatives have brought up topical and people-to-people issues, and they have taken their place and there has been a lot of discussion about them. Although many of them do not lead directly to a change of law, they are important as a catalyst for discussion and can then, in any case, lead to changes in the law. This bill by Kimmo Kiljunen proposes that a citizen's initiative, which has gathered 10,000 signatories, would initiate a procedure such as a written question such as that of getting an answer from the minister. The idea is, of course, beautiful and good, but at the moment, when I think of the written questions and the answers that have been asked by the Members of Parliament, they go very hard and sometimes they have to ask where they are, when the three-week deadline threatens to break and sometimes goes, and the answers are not always of very high quality, depending on the ministry and the minister. So I have some doubts about that. This 10,000 signatories is quite a small number, and yet representatives have been elected by the voices of the people. On the other hand, I am in favour of this extension of the collection period to 12 months, because this 6 months is a rather short period of time, especially for initiatives that have not received much publicity in the social media, to which Mr Kiljunen referred, this media visibility. This is gonna take a lot of work. There are many good initiatives, which have only remained there, or have become, for example, a summer holiday period, and there are such natural explanations that it has not been marketed so well in various events. Well, then, so much of these citizens' initiatives that their handling is often slow in Parliament, and it has also frustrated these initiative makers, when it is a really great effort and it is great to have the initiative in Parliament and to process it, but then it somehow stops it and it is very slow to process it. One example of this last time is this Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative, which has come to Parliament more than a year ago and has been stuck in that Committee on Social Affairs and Health, where I myself am the vice-chairman. We have tried to move it forward there, and we have voted twice to speed it up, last spring to continue the process there, and now just a few weeks ago to speed it up, but the government parties have rejected its progress. Somehow we should see these citizens' initiatives as such non-political initiatives so that they can have their dues dealt with, no matter how political they feel about it or whether it fits in with their own legislative proposals right now. But these citizens' initiatives have an important role to play, and at least I think it is always good to get to grips with them. They will indeed become important issues that are relevant to people's everyday lives, and it is good to continue to develop this citizens' initiative. One more thing that would make sense to do: they would also be more than parliamentary periods, because people are now not directly following how these parliamentary periods always go, that is, if they have started collecting those names, it could also continue to collect names, and the initiative could be restored when the next Parliament then starts its work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u117	Mr President! There is certainly a lot of room for development in the citizens' initiative system, and I think that this bill has some very good ideas for developing its system. This extension of the collection period can at least be supported without reservation, because six months is short and the themes contained in the citizens' initiative often seem to be topical due to an event in the news, a public event, which means that the citizens' initiative has progressed slowly, collected some signatures, and then suddenly jumps high and comes to Parliament. Perhaps this time should be extended, as things may become more topical. Of course, this specific legislative initiative to turn the citizens' initiative into a kind of written question must be supported in the sense that this would enable citizens to raise issues to the debate. Of course, would it be particularly important if the Ministry gave an answer to that question? Hopefully, the Ministry would at least give better answers to these questions than to the written questions of the MPs, because they are usually just as empty as they are. The citizens' initiative here in Parliament is currently a very difficult process, which is generally dealt with with by means of a weight which does not necessarily deal with legislative initiatives signed by even a hundred Members of Parliament, and because of this pregnancy it is also rather slow to deal with. Collecting the names of the citizens' initiative, 50,000 names, usually only succeeds if the subject in question is evoked, popular, or if it is backed by various NGOs and others who pursue their own political goals. I do not know, perhaps it might be a good idea for this to be accompanied by a lighter procedure of this kind, so that a smaller group of citizens could also bring marginal issues of interest to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u118	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kilju for his legislative initiative and for keeping the importance of citizens' initiatives in the debate. Public participation in political decision-making is one of the cornerstones of democracy. The e-Citizens' Initiative Service improves and increases the opportunities of Finns for political participation. The citizens' initiative procedure, which has been in force for eight years, has in principle been an excellent addition to direct democracy. The initiative service also gives us parliamentarians the opportunity to listen better to the citizens' wishes. Together we are wiser — it is good to keep that in mind. Proposals for amendments to the bill should be considered. I can well understand how much work and time it takes to collect 50,000 signatures. The initiative must be supported by footwork, campaigning in social media and seeking media visibility. All of this requires a lot of resources and know-how that individuals or small associations may not have. Although I believe that the current number of signatures is justified, the current legislation excludes many excellent initiatives. As stated in the bill, to date a little over a thousand initiatives have been taken, some 40 of which have been submitted to Parliament. This means that the majority of initiatives will never reach that 50 000 signatures, but will lapse. Nevertheless, several good initiatives have been able to collect several thousand signatures. However, I believe that the proposal for a legislative initiative on the treatment of 10,000 signatures, like a written question, is partly challenging, because the function of a written question is to obtain more information, not to change legislation and regulations, so perhaps a different type of procedure would be necessary. But it would be good to look for ways in which the voice of the citizens will also be heard in cases where tens of thousands of people have seen it as important, but the limit of 50,000 names has not broken. This is also linked to the bill’s proposal to extend the signature period to 12 months, which reduces, for example, the impact of holidays or seasons on the collection of signatures. This change is easier for me too, although it is quite clear from the fact that it is precisely this time limit that has undermined the accumulation of sufficient names that cannot be demonstrated. Mr President! In addition to these proposals, I would like to raise an objection to the fact that the current legislation does not allow citizens' initiatives to lapse if they are not dealt with during the parliamentary term. It would be good to change this in such a way that citizens' initiatives would be valid for more than one parliamentary term in one way or another. Important and talked-about social phenomena and things do not respect the limits of parliamentary term, but citizens' initiatives can take place in Parliament at any time. When we talk about the forms of direct democracy and political influence, it is also important to think about the involvement and opportunities of young people. There is already an important record in the Government Programme that the age limit for signing a citizens' initiative is reduced to 15 years in order to strengthen the social inclusion of young people. For many years now, the Greens have been supporting greater opportunities for young people to participate, and this initiative should also be discussed from the point of view of young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u119	Mr President! Citizens' initiatives are a little bit of a thermometer for the people, something that has been talked about or that seems important to them or that is in line with their own life situation or values, and where it feels that it is not progressing with a traditional representative democracy, and then the citizen or NGOs will take action together to promote this. This system of citizens' initiatives has been an important opportunity for further participation, which has been created since 2012 for citizens in addition to representative democracy. I believe that we are living in a time when we really need to bring different ways to people to take part in things that affect themselves. That is why I would like to thank Mr Kilju for having taken this initiative in law, in which you are now highlighting the flaws that this system has encountered and who have certainly also spoken to the people who have taken up these citizens' initiatives. I have noticed myself, when the citizens' initiatives have been discussed in Parliament, that there is a feeling that citizens' initiatives can make progress here, with almost professional work behind them: firstly, it has been possible to build the citizens' initiative itself in such a way that it has the potential and the ability to move forward here, and it has also been possible to collect these necessary amounts. It is not the intention of the citizens' initiative that there should be professional action to ensure, for example, that these required amounts or time limits are met. That is why I think that these representatives The proposals made by Mrs Kiljune are now lowering the threshold for a citizens' initiative, but, on the other hand, they keep the threshold so that, in any case, from a whim, no one is going to go ahead with the citizens' initiative. Mr Hopsu also pointed out one further objection to which I would also like to see a change, and that is the expiry of citizens' initiatives at the end of the parliamentary term. These citizens' initiatives do not depend on the government that sits, so this is something that would also be good to have corrected. But very interesting thoughts, and hopefully this
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u120	Mr President! It is good that we are dealing with direct democracy within the framework of this legislative initiative. I very much welcome the fact that the collection of 50,000 names and signatures would be extended to that year. At the same time, I feel that people who, in one way or another, are in a slightly marginal position not to be able to collect 50,000 names, with this bill, would already be able to make 10,000 names visible to their initiative and some kind of response, which is also very much to be welcomed from the point of view of direct democracy. And thirdly, this is a flaw that has been mentioned here, which relates to citizens' initiatives, which is that citizens' initiatives will lapse when the term of office expires. This is where a correction must be found, which is that they do not expire and that their time would be the year in any case, between the periods of government or between the parliamentary term. There are quite a few citizens' initiatives that affect me, and before I became a Member of Parliament, I myself have been thinking about them and some of them have been signed. In recent times, for example, there has been a citizens' initiative concerning Finland's water resources under the heading 'Vesioseni'. As a person born in a country where oil is a national treasure, to the very same extent, if not to a greater extent, Finnish water is an even more valuable national treasure. Man cannot be without air or water. Human beings can be without oil. It has now been seen, and there is a growing variety of forms of energy. And here I feel strongly that such an initiative,the ‘Vesionus’,would haveproclaimed as a national water-based property which could not be soldto severalnational or othercompanies with a water supply network,is very much to be supported,and this initiative,which has already raised more
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u121	Mr President! Now we have a law amending the Act on Citizens' Initiative. I think it makes sense to make a little easier for this system, that if we have to collect those names for six months, it makes sense to extend it to that year. It will make it easier to influence, and the importance of influence will be emphasised here, and it is so important for citizens, for citizens, for citizens, for people, for everyone, to be able to influence and that it really is an influence and not just to remain at the level of assumption, and this is a good way to do it. Well, if you look at the influence of the citizens, there could be more of that influence of the citizens elsewhere, even in the municipalities. It's kind of hard for a guy to make a difference. And wish there were more municipal initiatives. That's a little bit of work to be done in the end. If the delegates take initiatives, they may run a year in some red tape dumps, and then it comes out that this is not going anywhere. It would be hoped that they would be made on a slightly smaller threshold. And why not even such questioning hours: municipalities might well have more questions for people that people could like to attend. In some ways, I would like to see such a small bureaucracy go on, that, at least in no way, bureaucracy should be increased, but that this effectiveness should be made more possible through the lowest minimum bureaucracy. Yes, it is terribly important for people to be able to influence and feel that you are being listened to. It's important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u122	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Kiljunen, for bringing this whole set of citizens' initiatives to the debate through the legislative initiative. As far as I am concerned, this citizens' initiative is an excellent tool which, in my opinion, should be compared to a legislative initiative by a hundred or more Members of Parliament. I believe that Mr Hopsu was the first to point out that this legislative act relating to the citizens' initiative should now be amended so that neither of them really lapses, nor the bill signed by 100 or over 100 Members of Parliament, nor the citizens' initiative, because I would like them to be treated as similar in order of priority. Then the government will not escape unpleasant things that it does not want to deal with so that it postpones and postpones them. And now that I have the floor, let me give you an example. As a Member of Parliament for the first period, I myself took a bill which had been carefully drafted, and I can say afterwards, on the grounds which will come up later in my speech that the bill was a chessmate, i.e. it was watertight. That law was applicable when the State illegally collected VAT on imported cars, i.e. VAT, and it was done in such a way that both the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Supreme Administrative Court, on certain lines, had maintained that the Return Act should have been extended, returned this money to the citizens. The time for dealing with this bill ended during that part-session. It had been signed by 150 MPs, and I still feel a little bitterness. On the other hand, bitterness is alleviated by the fact that a few years ago, the Supreme Court ruled that the State was liable for damages. But perhaps one of the elements of that bill was that how can a citizen know that we have a law that does not deal with citizens correctly, and how can a citizen know that the Supreme Administrative Court has made incorrect administrative decisions. This is an example of where I base this on the fact that both the citizens' initiative and the bill signed by a hundred or more Members of Parliament will not be broken even if the parliamentary elections come.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u123	We have about 5 minutes to deal with this issue at the moment, or it will be the last one this evening at the moment. About three speeches remain.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u124	Mr President! I think it is all right that we are developing different instruments, but if there are listeners — I do not know — I would like to tell you about the work of the committees. There are good elements in this initiative, such as changing this collection of names for 12 months, and then not losing it. But when there was a speech here to say that we would like to have a good reading in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I would like to tell the audience — and we all know it in this Chamber — that if you do not get a hundred names, as is not the case here, it will be waiting in committee unless there is a government proposal on the same subject. Now, Mr Kiljunen, this is actually a bit dependent on the government's proposal coming, and of course you should hurry it up, because then these ideas of yours could come to the table. And even when there are 100 names, you do not always know how the committee sees whether or not a proposal is expected. The second point, namely that citizens' initiatives should be over the parliamentary term, is very much to be welcomed, because, for the attention of the public, the citizens' initiative is not exactly the most urgent one there, that is to say, the committee must deal primarily with the government's proposals, and if the committee is, as it were, already blocked by time limits, it is becoming difficult sometimes to deal with citizens' initiatives. They will then be dealt with whenever possible, and for that reason too they will be able to endure. And, of course, because they do not have such extensive preparation, a wide-ranging consultation, and it cannot be assumed that there would be such a wide-ranging consultation. It would be good to be aware of this too, and it would be very much in favour of it not to lapse, but to be able to continue it in the next parliamentary term. I must say that I am pleased that we had this citizens' initiative on the mutilation of girls and women, which was adopted. When it is often said that nothing is adopted here in Parliament, it was unanimously adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for its girls and women, and this Chamber also adopted, which is where we are now looking for urgent legislative measures. Yes, these matters. But, of course, I hope that, as a member of the Prime Minister's Party, Mr Kiljunen, you will receive a proposal from that government, and then perhaps this initiative of yours on this matter will proceed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u125	President! I'm trying to be brief so we can finish this conversation. It's kind of at its own corner right now. Thank you for these comments. It was clearly understood that legislation on citizens' initiatives needed reform. We can go into the debate on what type of reforms they are, but clearly there is a need for reform here. There were many ideas, including that citizens' initiatives that have come here in Parliament should not lapse by electoral term. Mr Hopsu pointed out this idea that from the age of 15 there could be signatories. My initiative comes from this 10,000 signatories, which would lead to such a question as a minister's question about what the MPs are doing. It was said here that it will lead to inflation and excessive initiatives. I have quickly calculated this: About 3% of the citizens' initiatives taken lead to 50,000 signatures — only 3%, or 43 of the 1143 citizens' initiatives. Around 10% of citizens' initiatives are able to collect its 10,000 names. Collecting that 10,000 names is a big deal, and this is an experience. So even in that respect it is not a very light thing either, it does not cause great inflation, and then it would be important for it to be taken into account. This is a good idea. Of course, it is also an important idea that we should be able to extend this period for a year in this citizens' initiative. I would also like this to come from the government's side to the committee so that this debate on citizens' initiatives can be opened. I know that the Ministry of Justice has already mapped out the need for reform here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u126	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mr Scream for this excellent initiative, in my view. Here, in particular, I would say that it is a matter of hearing the people, and whenever such things arise, it warms the heart. I myself, before coming to this house, have been involved in a couple of citizens' initiatives that ended up there between 20,000 and 30,000, i.e. not being dealt with, and I know the enormous effort the citizens have made in doing so. Of course, it is always appreciated that, when the public sees fit, they go out and collect something like this. It's a very good thing. For this reason, it would be very good that it would lead to some result and that the people would get the equivalent of their work. Just a brief word, Mr President, about the spirit, that is, now that the people are making citizens' initiatives, they are often a little popular. I would therefore like to see some way in the future of legislating or making such a reform that the citizens' initiative might not necessarily come across a small technical point, but that spirit of initiative could be brought to the House for discussion, even so that the dialogue with the authors of the initiative would be conducted at the initial stage when it came here and changed it from there as long as the spirit remained. This could be a very good policy in the future. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u127	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u128	Mr President! In this legislative initiative, I propose that Article 57b(1) of the Medicines Act be amended so that, in the future, the pharmacy, when delivering a medicinal product based on a prescription from a doctor, dentist or other healthcare professional entitled to prescribe a medicinal product, is entitled to change the pack size, number and strength of the medicinal product in the event of a disruption in the availability of the medicinal product as defined by the Finnish Medicines Agency, provided that the dosage and duration of treatment of the medicinal product prescribed by the doctor do not change. After all, it is now possible to replace another medicinal product with the same active substance, if it is cheaper, and this is what the pharmacy is actually obliged to do, to propose it to the customer, and if the customer does not object to it, it will be carried out. This would therefore mean that, in the event of a drug’s supply disruption, the pharmacy would also be entitled to change the strength of the medicine or the pack size, but that the amount of active substance should not change from what is stated in the prescription, it should be informed to the customer so that he understands it, and it must be labelled in the Stock System in order to be visible there in the prescription. Drug supply disruptions have increased in a worrying manner in recent years. For example, in 2019 there have been 400 notifications of disruptions in medicinal products. They cause a lot of extra work. Pharmacies have to call doctors, ask for a new prescription. It's a bad situation for the customer when you don't get the medicine, and often that phone call doesn't mean you can find a doctor who can make that change, so you leave the pharmacy empty-handed. Even then, in the health care unit, it will cause additional work for nurses, they will have to take a call there and find the patient records and then the doctor to deliver this message. Often the doctor is also in the middle of a customer situation, and then there will be an interruption that you can change, this can't be found at the pharmacy. It interrupts its contact with customers, and at the same time the doctor will have to go to the electronic customer information of this other person very quickly and make a pretty big decision quickly, on a fast schedule. This would improve that situation. In a survey of the Pharmacy Association, 95% of pharmacists felt that the problem of access to medicines would be eased if pharmacies had more opportunities than the exchange of medicines to exchange the missing medicine for what is available, and doctors and nurses agreed. In other words, I would like to see this matter, which is very much to be welcomed in the field, move forward in Parliament. There are 40 signatures here. However, I wanted to leave this at the point where we can get this dossier moving forward, but I believe that there is even greater support for this, even though it does not now fill more than a hundred names. At the latest, at the time of the renewal of the pharmaceutical road map during this government term, this could be raised and corrected by this instance, which would also improve the appropriate use of healthcare resources. I would also like to make it clear that this would only apply to the problems of access to medicines — it would not be intended that we should go on to change people’s medicines to a wider extent — precisely the problems of accessibility that Fimea has identified and highlighted on its own website.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u129	Mr President! I believe that this initiative by Mr Laiho is to be welcomed, and I hope that the government will also address this, because it is important to try to react in advance to these situations. In recent years, there has been an increase in the number of disruptions in the availability of medicines. This is not just a Finnish phenomenon, but in this small market area in Finland they are especially felt. This is because the production of pharmaceutical raw materials is concentrated in a few countries and even in a few production plants, which makes supply chains vulnerable. I believe that this initiative taken by Mr Laiho is one way of responding to this situation and, of course, from the point of view of the health care staff and also of the patient, in other words, this legislative amendment would facilitate the delivery of the corresponding medicinal product to the patient and would facilitate the work load of health care and the pharmacy in these particular situations of disruption. We have a highly educated, professional, expert pharmacist in Finland, so I believe that it would be able to handle this and provide the customer with the right and understandable information and care advice in these situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u130	Mr President! This bill, this amendment to the pharmaceutical law, is indeed such a rational initiative. I just want to tell you about my own experience. For 25 years I've been doing pharmacy work, and in pharmacies they've been doing pharmaceuticals, they've been going to college, or the pharmacists, and some of the pharmacists are pharmacists. So all those who supply drugs have attended university education. When a customer comes to a pharmacy with a prescription of 5 milligrams for a medicine, then if there is such a situation that it is the end of the bottle of 5 milligrams, it does not exist — the same medicine would be found on the shelf in 10 milligrams and 2.5 milligrams — however it may be, in the pharmacy it cannot be replaced just like that, but in the pharmacy it must start to reach the doctor. Well, the pharmacy starts calling the doctor, telling the customer to wait or tell him to run errands. Let's call a doctor, see if we can reach a doctor. It may be that the nurse will be caught first. The doctor could be doing an operation or something. Well, then we'll call again or leave a call. It's gonna take a long time to get back and forth with that phone rumba when it's not a big deal. And then when the doctor is finally caught, the doctors have sometimes wondered if you are serious about not being able to change that medicine, but that medicine, and yes it is, and it is kind of embarrassing if you have to call the same doctor for the fifth time about the same thing. For a fool, it actually sounds like it cannot be done in Finland. Of course, it is clear that if you have a different form of medicine, then of course you cannot change. It doesn't make any sense. But this is a simple thing: if you have 10 milligrams of tablet, 5 milligrams and 2.5 milligrams of tablet, then I think college education is capable of calculating what is the same dose that is prescribed by your doctor. After all, this has always been done at the hospital pharmacy, and it makes sense. In the same way, you might wonder — and it is not entirely comparable now — that if, for example, you make a spouse buy a chocolate plate, if there is no chocolate plate of 200 grams and there is a chocolate plate of 100 grams, are you happy if the spouse comes from the store without any chocolate plate, when there was no chocolate plate of 200 grams, or are you happy if you brought two of those 100 grams of chocolate discs? This is just the way it is that it makes perfect sense to be able to change it. When the strength does not change and the purpose remains the same and the strength in practice remains the same, it would be very reasonable for this bill to be introduced and adopted. Yes, pharmacies have long been in need of it, and that is what happens in every pharmacy very often, and especially today when there is a huge shortage of medicines. It is absolutely absurd to put a strain on health care and especially on doctors who are already busy, but with such a small thing. I believe that this would be a sensible change, and I hope that this will really be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u131	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Reijonen and Mr Räsänen, for their excellent contributions to this bill. On this issue raised by Mrs Räsänen, about the global disruption in access to medicines, I would like to point out that, indeed, this bill is one of the ways in which, in a small area, the harm to the customer in terms of access to medicines can be improved and, of course, additional work for the pharmacy and health care staff, which of course does not correct access to medicines, and that is something that needs to be tackled and improved in many areas. That is, of course, the root problem that we unfortunately have at the moment, and we must do something about it. It is also relevant to these crisis situations in the most significant way. We must also be able to secure adequate medical care in times of crisis if the situation is such that there is a shortage of medicines. But this is one concrete way to make things better for both the customer and the staff from a practical point of view. I can very well agree with this point made by Mr Reijonen on the professional and competent staff of pharmacies. They, if those who are specifically professionals in the pharmaceutical sector, have received a high level of training and can certainly be trusted to have knowledge there and to be able to inform customers in an adequate way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u132	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u133	Mr President! The housekeepers have spoken much in this large hall over the years. It does not occur to you immediately that a Member of Parliament directly opposed the improvement of the situation of carers and carers — quite the contrary. It seems that informal care receives strong support across party boundaries year after year. However, it is contradictory to mirror the fine speeches about the improvements made at real life level in the situation of carers: unfortunately, actions do not match words. The importance of family carers' work is not difficult to justify and the annual savings for the public sector resulting from informal care are enormous. Family carers put themselves on the line to take care of their family members or other loved ones who, as a result of illness, disability or other special care needs, are unable to cope with their daily lives on their own. It is estimated that there are some 350,000 informal care situations in Finland, of which 60,000 are very binding and demanding. The need for informal care is very great, and informal care is often by far the best solution for those being treated. Family care is also a really affordable form of care for municipalities. According to THL's calculations, the costs of informal care are only about one fifth of the annual costs of improved service housing for an elderly person. Think of the savings, and then think about this saved amount in relation to the amount of support for informal care. Mr President! In this bill, I propose that the family carer be free of charge. A family carer who has concluded a informal care agreement with the municipality is entitled to at least two days’ leave per calendar month or, in a more binding case, three days’ leave. During these periods of leave, care must be provided for the person concerned, for example by means of a service voucher, in which case home care or service housing can be obtained for the duration of the leave. At present, the customer charge for the services provided by the carer during the period of free time does not exceed EUR 11 40 cents per day or the maximum liability for the use of service vouchers is EUR 11 40 cents. The financial situation of many family carers is tight, and the abolition of the charge for foster care would provide some relief. Family carers do important work for their neighbors and at the same time make significant savings for municipalities in the provision of care services. I do not believe that it is reasonable to collect own resources from these, to say the least, well-deserved holidays. The free-of-charge treatment would also be an expression of appreciation for the extremely important work done by family carers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u134	Thank you for the introduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u135	Mr President! I believe that this bill by Mrs Elomaa is very timely and worthy of support. At the moment, the ability of many family carers to cope is quite extreme. Often it has not even been possible to keep free, daytime activities have been on break. Intervals are important for carers during holidays or holidays, and unfortunately, during the corona period, both daytime activities and intervals have often been cancelled and the load of carers has increased. And indeed, just as Mrs Elomaa said, informal care is, in any case, beneficial to society in comparison to, say, service housing. Service housing for the elderly costs the municipality approximately EUR 42,000 a year when the carer pays around EUR 9000 a year, and this cost has been calculated for both the premium and three days off per month. The financial situation of family carers should also be taken seriously. It is a message of appreciation for informal care, but many family carers also live on a very low income. Many of them themselves are pensioners and older people. I am in favour of this proposal. In addition, in its alternative budget, published just today, our parliamentary group is proposing that the allowance for informal care should be exempt from tax, i.e. it will continue to be exempt from tax. I believe that these would be important messages that family carers and their work are also valued in practice and in deeds and not just in speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u136	Mr President! This bill by Mrs Elomaa must be supported in relation to this free-of-charge care for informal care. Family carers are doing a very important job and the work they give them is very important to society, because if they were to be cared for, for example, in 24-hour care, they would have multiple costs. The fact that family carers take those days off is of paramount importance for them to be able to do the work. There are many challenges here, too, that there are not enough places in the municipalities where one’s own family would like to put them. That is why I warmly encourage the various municipalities to use the service voucher in the sense that there are more options for the very family member in what would be the most appropriate place, that there is not just one ward in the health centre, for example, where they can get those days off. And this contribution really sounds small, so it would of course be interesting to know what the cost of this increase would be on an annual basis. After all, we have a bill on customer fees in committee right now. This bill in itself comes at the very last minute. If this is in committee tomorrow, then the Finns could raise this issue there. When the report on the Consumer Payments Act is due to be discussed in committee tomorrow, how can we get it in or at least in some way bring it in? But as an idea, this is very much to be supported. It is a pity that there has now been so much delay in dealing with these legislative initiatives. When this too had come earlier, we would have had time in committee to reflect on this too, to take it up there too, and to clarify, for example, these cost issues by the time the report is finalised.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u137	Mr President! Family carers are doing an extremely important job in society. They allow their loved ones to live at home longer, which, on the one hand, improves the quality of life to be cared for and, on the other hand, significantly saves society costs. Many people would not be able to live in their homes without taking care of the work of family carers, but would be covered by enhanced service housing. In the second year, intensified service housing arranged as a purchasing service cost an average of EUR 124 and care for elderly people EUR 172 per day. The monthly costs are therefore thousands of euros, from over 3000 to nearly 6000 euros a month. The work done by carers is very inexpensive given the alternative cost. In this bill, Mrs Elomaa proposes that no customer fees be charged for foster care during family carers' holidays. Currently, the customer fee is limited to EUR 11 and 40 cents per day. It is extremely important for a carer to be able to take their day off, and there are not even statutory holidays, depending on the level of care required, but two to three months. By investing a few tens a month in the survival of family carers, society saves thousands of euros if the person in charge can continue living at home and does not have to go to an enhanced service housing or retirement home. Mr President! At the end of the day, I would like to say that informal care is the most affordable and caring human form of care for the municipalities, which should be given its due value. In addition, the year of the corona has further increased the burden when carers have not been allowed to keep their days off after the interval has passed. I'm sure a lot of people are exhausted. I warmly support the adoption of the Elomaan initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u138	Mr President! This bill, which is to be supported, once again raises the question of whether it is not already in this way at the moment and, if not at the moment, why is it not. However, what we would be talking about here is a very small cost that would have a major positive impact on the lives of family carers and their care providers. It is not for money or pleasure that anyone becomes a family carer. It is because there is a family member who needs to be cared for. The aid is not granted without justification, and the aid, when it is granted, is very small and is not even tax-exempt. As has been said, a family carer saves society’s money by doing valuable work, and in the future, as the population ages, all such arrangements, by which people care for the health of their loved ones for as long as possible and remain capable of doing so themselves, must be put in place in good time. That is why this initiative must be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u139	Mr President! It's a family carers' week, but it's always a family carers' week, it's always a family carer's day, every hour is an hour for a family carer, they do that work all the time, every second. The representative, Elomaa, has presented a good initiative that is absolutely to be welcomed: a little relief from these payments by family carers and family carers. Then what's the problem with this family care? Well, it's actually a lot of things. And I wonder, though, that every election will always be preceded by promises, promises from the sky that this will be all right, and then, after the election has been, what will happen? Nothing really happens, somewhere in the wind these promises fade away. This should definitely be addressed. There are many things here, such as the criteria on how to define informal care support. The criteria vary from one municipality to another, it is not fair at all, and in other municipalities they vary from one holiday to another, they vary, they do not always work properly. Medical care is also quite interesting: If you are a customer of home nursing and you consider that you can benefit from, for example, the distribution of medicines, then in many municipalities that distribution can be paid for to the customer in a way. So, what about the family members? Well, it's definitely not automation. Of course, this distribution of medicines should also ensure that this comes to the care of the family, even free of charge, that it is paid for by society. There are a lot of things that should be addressed, and I hope that they will be addressed, and I hope that the initiative will move forward. I have seen here that I have been following this feedback from family carers and that in my opinion there is definitely a need for a child care representative in Finland, in the same way as a child care representative, for example. Family care is such that it's a thing of the future and it's important now, and that's what we need.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u140	Mr President! I warmly support this bill by Mrs Elomaa. Among other things, I am one of the signatories. I was going to write a longer story, but things have now become quite clear in previous speeches, so I will just say that family carers are doing responsible work while saving society millions of euros. A large proportion of family carers also live on the poverty line, so the initiative is very timely. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u141	Mr President! Heavy speeches have been made here about family carers and their role and duties in Finnish society. Thank you, too, for the Elomaan bill on this matter. I, too, am spiritually strongly in support of that thinking. The allowance for carers is very, very small in relation to the huge amount of work involved, and if there is any way to be met by the family carers to have these holidays and would like and be able to keep them, it should be supported, and this is a small form of what this securing the free replacement could be. Society will not fall into it, but it would be a fine gesture from the municipalities and society in this respect. Much has been said about the value of the work done by family carers. It is valuable when people do it from the heart, and there is still such a situation that often there is no alternative. Man wants to do it out of love, does it out of calling, and therefore the work is not properly compensated because man would do it anyway. But calculations have been made. The Family Care Association has made a calculation, this has been estimated at how much it would cost if the work of the family carers currently under the informal care agreement were to be carried out as a public service without the involvement of the family carer. This amount is as huge as EUR 3.4 billion. This is the sum of what society saves when the municipalities ultimately have an obligation to care for the elderly, the people who are now generally in the care of the family in their own way: $3.4 billion in savings. Mr President! I would like to point out here the point that would support this free-of-charge idea in the use of these free people, that a significant proportion of family carers are elderly people themselves, elderly people, people on low incomes. 60% of all family carers are pensioners. Mr President, we often talk about the passive population when we talk about the elderly. We see that they are doing a huge amount of volunteer work, and also, for example, informal care is a typical example of an elderly person giving his own contribution in practical exchange for nothing and saving society’s resources. In this regard, this overall picture should be seen, and I strongly agree with this initiative taken by Mrs Eloma insofar as this is a place for study. I hope that this reform can be taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u142	Mr. Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u143	Mr President! First of all, thank you to all those who have signed the bill and supported it here in the Chamber. Very important speeches. I think we all agree that something should be done about this already. Law initiatives on non-taxation of informal care have been taken many times. I've done it myself, as I recall, last season, and others have. Among other things, Reijose is also coming up with a bill in this regard, and many Finns have done so. But so far, this has not progressed. The reward for informal care is really small, and, as has been said many times, informal care is made out of love and caring for the person that loves it. Unfortunately, in municipalities too, informal care has been managed in such a way that it is very diverse in practice: somewhere a little better, somewhere a little worse, it is very variable. Although these holidays are allowed monthly, some family carers do not keep these free, and there are many reasons. They are often concerned about how it can be mentally cared for when you get away from home for a while: is the treatment comfortable, and is it something that they want to experience? There are such question marks that they are concerned when they are accustomed to the fact that their own loved one is always there. Thus, such feedback has come to the conclusion that those who do not want to take these holidays, even if they are really necessary, would somehow receive them as a cleaning service and the person who would then visit, the family carer and the person who would take care of them would also have a conversation partner for a while. Often, it is also, in a way, the loneliness that is expressed there. Even from such outside winds that an outside person should come to visit, it is hoped that I, in that field, have talked to them about these matters. I hope that this bill will now move forward and, as Mr Laiho said, it would have been wonderful if it had still been before the committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u144	Mr President! Family care saves a lot of money. It has just been said that the sum is over 3 billion, which is an annual figure. But in addition to this, we must also take into account the need to build new buildings, new care facilities where those people would be treated, to train more people, more nurses, and all of them are still making extra costs, so the savings are really huge, what this family care in Finland can accomplish. And if there were such a situation that we suddenly didn't have all the family carers anymore, Finland would be in real trouble. I also hope that my initiative on tax-free support for informal care will progress. It's coming to the hearing, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u145	Mr President! I would also like to name when I thank those of us who spoke, namely Mr Räsänen, Mr Laiho, Mr Lundén, Mr Mäkelä, Mr Reijonen, Mr Mäkynen and Mr Kiljunen, for the fine speeches here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u146	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u147	Mr President! This bill concerns the repeal of Article 44 of the paternity law. Last week we spent both the day of the rights of men and children, and now we have the appropriate initiative to promote the rights of both children and fathers. The problem is that Article 44 of the current paternity law prevent the best interests of the child from being realised in cases where it could be considered to be in the best interests of the child to correct the paternity. Today’s law allows a situation in which a person who can unquestionably prove that he is not the father of a child can be established against his will. After the expiry of the time limit, this court decision cannot in any way be changed in any way by an act confirmed as a father, even though, as I said, genetic technology, for example, can undoubtedly show that a confirmed father is not the right father of a child. This bill seeks two improvements: firstly, the correction of erroneous paternity relationships and, secondly, the protection of family life. Non-biological paternity can be revealed at any time and the two-year period for the abolition of paternity must therefore be abolished. In addition to legal obligations, false fatherhood causes the parties concerned considerable mental suffering. The Convention on the Rights of the Child states that the activities of public or private social services, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies concerning children must primarily take into account the best interests of the child. The Committee on the Rights of the Child has already informed Finland before the entry into force of the current paternity law that the legislation does not make a comprehensive reference to the best interests of the child. Now we have the opportunity to remedy this situation. The Fatherhood Act states that the best way to achieve the child’s best interests is when the child’s legal father is the biological father. The abolition of paternity can also be positive in the best interests of the child, since the reversal of false paternity opens up the possibility of confirming that the child is the father of his biological father. Article 44 of the current paternity law in practice prevents the correction of paternity after the child has reached the age of two. So now we have to correct this flaw. It's in the best interests of fathers and children. According to the European Convention on Human Rights, if paternity is imposed on the wrong person against his will, he will suffer both mental and economic damage, which also violates his fundamental rights. A person appointed to be a father shall be liable for maintenance of a child which is not his, and the child shall have the right of inheritance over him as prescribed in the arch of inheritance. Mr President! Article 44 of the Paternity Act is to be repealed in such a way that the amendment will also allow the correction of incorrect ids established between 2016 and 2020, i.e. the correction of ids after the entry into force of the current law. The article does not meet the objectives set by the legislator in its preliminary work, but, on the contrary, goes against the interests of the child and the rights of the child. Thus, even in the general sense of law, the best way to achieve the child’s best interests is to have the right biological father as a legal father. An artificial time limit is not necessary for a case-by-case consideration of the child’s genuine interest, since the district court must deal with and deal with the action submitted to it for the correction of paternity, regardless of the time. In the preparatory material of the existing paternity law, it has been said that the purpose of the law is to correct incorrect ills as early as possible, and pre-work does not advocate that false paternity should be maintained by the wrong person after the deadline has been reached. If, therefore, false fatherhood remains in force, the child will have to determine his or her own origin when he or she reaches the age of 18. I do not think that this is a situation that anyone thinks is desirable. The artificial time limit is incompatible with the fundamental principles of the Child Welfare Act. Article 44 of the Paternity Act At present, therefore, it is contrary to the purpose of the legislature when the district courts fail to deal with the actions and confirm the legal interests which do not involve biological or social fatherhood. Mr President! By adopting this bill, Parliament would demonstrate that children's interests need to be better assessed in these cases and that they need to be corrected. As a result of this article in force and its strict interpretation, there are currently cases in our country that cause suffering to those involved. The abolition of the time limit strengthens the rights of all parties involved. I hope that Parliament will exercise its power and the wisdom that prevails here and will agree with the bill on the repeal of Article 44 of the paternity law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u148	Mr President! The paternity law, which entered into force in 2016, allows the recognition of paternity in the maternity clinic even before the birth of the child, when the parents live in a cohabiting relationship. At the same time, parents can conclude a joint management agreement. Today, more than 50 percent of the firstborn are born into a common - law marriage. The status of a child born outside of marriage was significantly improved by the reform of the paternity law. At the same time, the mother’s ability to prevent the resolution of paternity was removed. The possibilities for the child supervisor to settle paternity were extended to children over the age of 15, but a child aged 15 or over was left entitled to refuse it. A child has the right to know his or her biological parents if he or she so wishes. In the Government Programme, it has been agreed that maternity and paternity laws will be combined into the Parenthood Act. In the same context, it would be useful to review the deadlines for the confirmation and annulment of paternity mentioned in the paternity law and whether paternity could also be recognised in advance in the maternity clinic when parents are married. At the same time, the role of the father would be strengthened from the time of the maternity clinic. Families with children must be provided with low-threshold services in every municipality. The child supervisor and family counselor must be able to seek advice and support before situations become more acute. Mr President! Today, more and more children live in a diverse family, and the legislation needs to be reformed to reflect the modern family concept. The status of a social parent in Finland is still outlawed in many places, and as we heard last Friday on the steps of the Parliament House, the status of a child in custody and his/her immediate circle is also vulnerable when the child’s care is transferred to social services, despite the fact that the mapping of his/her family is recorded in the Child Welfare Act. The child’s close affections must be better identified in legislation. These close relationships that are meaningful to a child are important protective factors in the changes in family situations and in the adversities of life for the rest of the life. Mr President! At last, shift housing was formally brought into law quite precisely a year ago, and it significantly improved the legal security of children living in two homes. Much remains to be done to address the social security reform, one of the objectives of which is to improve the position of shift parents in the area of housing and other social security. Parenthood is parenthood regardless of marital status and prefix. It should not be determined by gender or marital status. In future, the Parenthood Act must ensure equal parenthood for all children and for the actual parents of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u149	Mr President! This bill is an important one and I hope that this problem will be rectified as a matter of urgency. According to the grounds for annulment of the paternity law, the paternity of a man must be abolished if it has been established through a genetic examination or otherwise that there is no relationship between a man and a child within the meaning of the paternity law. Any party other than the child shall bring an action for annulment of paternity within two years of the birth of the child. In practice, a two-year period of rigidity causes serious problems in the lives of the parties concerned. The application may be lodged only a few weeks late after the results of the paternity investigation and it is unreasonable to require that, in a traumatic situation, the party concerned should be able to immediately initiate the judicial process and disengage himself from his presumed child, who has already had the opportunity to develop a strong emotional bond. In 2017, I put a written question on the problems caused by the deadlines for the abolition of paternity, and we still have this problem in our hands. Even in the present law, the two-year period is not, in principle, absolute, since the application can be examined under the paternity law even if it has been brought after the expiry of that period, if the applicant has had a legal obstacle or if he appears to have had another very serious reason for failing to bring an action in the past. However, the action must be dismissed as inadmissible if it has not been brought without delay after the ground for not bringing an action has been dismissed. In 2017, Jari Lindström, then Minister of Justice and Labour, replied to my written question that since the paternity law had only been in force for a little more than a year at the time, the government did not consider it necessary to evaluate the paternity law. Well, now that this law has come into force, several years have passed and experience has accumulated. I believe that this law should indeed be looked at urgently. It has been established in the legal literature that cases in which an action was considered to be admissible despite the expiry of the plaintiff's time-limit have concerned situations in which a man has been given reason to suspect his father's father only after the expiry of that period of action. According to the case-law, when the actual plaintiff expires, it is necessary to act quickly after there is a suspicion of paternity. The aim of the Act on the abolition of paternity is both to correct erroneous paternity relationships and to protect family life. It is important, in the interests of the child, to correct the wrong paternity relationship at the earliest possible stage, but on the other hand, the child’s interest is not enhanced by a situation in which his or her true father has not been established, and the fact that his/her father/father/father/father/father/father/father/father/genital/genital/genital/genital/genital/genital/genital/genital/genital/genital/genital/genital/genis/genis not effectively produced that real relationship with the father. In the course of current legislation, the requirement to bring an action without delay has resulted in painful results which cannot be considered to be in the best interests of the child or the man seeking the annulment of paternity. In those circumstances, the application has been dismissed because that time limit has been exceeded and these solutions have been very categorical. The right to know and to have a legal relationship with their biological parents, as enshrined in Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights, is an important and permanent basis for the identity of a person. According to Article 7 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, children are also entitled to know their own parents. The need to have parenthood verified and confirmed will not cease with the passing of time or ageing. There is a public case in many media dealing with both the question of the confirmation of paternity and the imposition of maintenance benefits, in which the rulings of the court did not deviate from the time limit for the abolition of paternity, and I consider it very valuable that this person has brought up this painful situation by his own example. The two-year period for the abolition of paternity creates unreasonable situations in practical life, and the law really requires a change. These erroneous paternity decisions have long-term consequences for both the child and the man, which is why it is important to have a retrospective adjustment to the fatherhood. Mr President! I have also been in contact with the current Minister of Justice, Anna-Maja Henriksson, on several occasions, who has promised that this matter will then be dealt with and examined in the context of that Parenthood Act, but the Parenthood Act is a big package and also contains very contradictory views, such as the abandonment of these concepts of motherhood and fatherhood in legislation, which is certainly not an issue of any kind here in Parliament, and I therefore hope that this proposal will be dealt with separately and that this painful problem will be corrected regardless of the treatment of the Parenthood Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u150	Mr President! If there's something in the world and in life I can't stand, it's injustice. This bill specifically addresses the issue of injustice. Law and justice are at the heart of Finnish society, and in practice all activities are based on justice and legality. We must be able to rely on society here to legislate on the kind of laws that we can abide by and that sit in the public sense of justice. That is not the case with paternity law. As the father of four children, I can prove that the birth of children and the birth of children is the greatest possible thing in life, it cannot be overemphasized, but sometimes that grandeur can get an untenable and insurmountable crack. Let's imagine the situation: Let's live in a relationship, even in a marriage. Everything should be fine, and a good indication of that is the birth of a child. Then it turns out that the spouse has had a secret relationship. The discovery of such a thing is, in practice, always a huge, shocking crisis. It's a lot of suffering, isn't it? But it's not enough. It turns out that the child is initiated by another. Often, in such situations, too, the mother has already known this fact and fact. Imagine that feeling. Is it possible to pull more thoroughly from under the feet? Yes, it can. It happens when people try to deny the fatherhood. It is perfectly natural and understandable; in such a situation paternity is not biologically true. If the denial does not take place within two years of birth, the paternity will not be overturned without a particularly serious reason. As far as I know, these particularly heavy causes have so far not been found in a single case, and yet there have been such cases. In the end, a father who has been double-crossed has been betrayed by society and has to pay child support payments until the child reaches the age of 18. What happens to the person who really is the biological father of the child? Well, nothing. He does not have to bear any responsibility, he does not have to pay a cent, as if nothing had ever happened. In other words, as a society, we deny the right, legally undisputed truth. How is that even possible? Where does justice live here? Nowhere. It is clear that we must always take first care of the interests of the children. However, such a procedure cannot be in the best interests of the child. In fact, it casts quite a shadow over the child’s life, which, at a later stage, means that the child’s life will have plenty of disassembly. It can happen after decades, far away from adulthood. What is the basis of that child’s life? Lies that society has maintained. The legislative process is not infallible, it has been stated many times. Even the strangest things that may even destroy the original thought of the law and its spirit slip into the legislation. This has happened, for example, in the current Child Welfare Act, the changes of which have pushed children even into a dangerous state, even though the idea has in principle been quite the opposite. Now we are again grappling with the law and its problems in relation to the child’s interests. The two-year period for denying paternity is a clear mistake and must be corrected. The revelation of truth in such matters can take place at any time. I do not understand at all where such a two-year period can come from, what logic it can be based on. It seems incomprehensible that such a thing has gone through the legislative machinery all the way to the legal text. Mr President! We, the legislators elected by the people, have the right and, above all, the duty to correct the errors in the legislation, and this is where we have to do so. This must already be done for the sake of the credibility and reliability of the rule of law, and that is why I strongly support this worthy initiative by Mr Kopra. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u151	Thank you. — I note that we have 7 minutes to deal with this issue at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u152	Mr President! In this legislative initiative by Mr Kopra, it is proposed to repeal Article 44 of the paternity law. Under the law in force, an action for annulment of paternity must be brought within two years of the birth of a child, when the action is brought by a mother, a man who considers himself to be the father of a child born in the course of a mother's marriage, or a man whose paternity has been established on the basis of a marriage, and after that it is practically impossible to change the paternity, after two years, virtually impossible. Such a change of law was made then in 2016 and should be corrected. Thank you, Mr Kopra, for raising this issue. This bill aims at correcting erroneous paternity relationships and protecting family life. I would like to raise two points here. We are talking about the right of a child to know his biological origin and then the right of a father to know that he has a biological child and the right of the father who is not a biological one to know that he is not a biological father. There are many rights here that will come up against and which will be relevant to all these parties. They involve both emotional matters, meaning, and legal importance, in relation to maintenance payments and also inheritance rights. I would also like to point out that it does not necessarily mean that the biological father is the father with whom the child lives if he has lived with another man in the family. Nor should this be seen as a threat to the situation of the child, but as a right to know the origin of the child and then as a right to know the child of its own, and also to know if the child is not his own. That is why this deadline does not really work in such matters, because it does not lose its right to anything. Let us hope that this can be rectified quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u153	Congressman Eestilä, can you get a mask on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u154	Mr President! The bill for the repeal of Article 44 of the paternity law is a well-supported initiative. We are faced with deep questions that are very human. Recently a case has been discussed in public where the father of the child was obliged to pay maintenance to a child whose biological father he is not. The child was born in the marriage of a man and a woman, but after a couple of years the husband learned that he was not the biological father of the child. He applied to the court for the annulment of paternity, but since the time limit for the application for annulment had already expired, his claim was rejected. As a result of a man’s complaint, both the District Court and later the Court of Appeal ruled on paternity law, claiming that he was obliged to pay child support. Mr President! It is appropriate to ask whether, in this case or in other similar cases, a right or even a reasonable one was achieved. I don't think it's up to me to cancel the fatherhood. Even the old rule of the judge states: What is not right and fair cannot be a law. That is a good guide for us legislators today. At present, an action for annulment of paternity lodged after the deadline may be brought only on the basis of a legal obstacle or of a very serious reason. However, according to the current case-law, it is not enough even to prove that the person is a non-biological father with 99.9% certainty. Mr President! Finally, the objective of the bill is to remove the deadlines for bringing actions for the annulment of paternity. As I said, non-biological paternity can be revealed at any age. The setting of a deadline for the abolition of paternity is therefore an artificial and unjustified restriction which, at its worst, causes serious mental suffering to the various parties involved. Representative Kopra's bill helps to correct erroneous paternity relationships as early as possible. At the same time, it protects family life and prevents human suffering. As stated in the Constitution, public authorities must safeguard fundamental rights and human rights. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u155	I would like to say that the time allocated in advance has been spent and the debate and proceedings are suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u156	We will now resume the debate on item 13 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u157	Mr President! In my view, this bill for the repeal of Article 44 of the paternity law must be supported and corrected by the criteria already stated more often than not. There was an appeal to the judge that what is not right and fair cannot be a law. That is the case, and I do not know who might think that it is right or reasonable that paternity should be confirmed to a person who is not really the father of the child and that it cannot be changed later if it turns out that this is not the case. After all, legislation should have not only its right and its fairness but also its truth. In any case, we are not making laws that make a reality of something that we know for sure is a lie. That's not how legislation works. That would lead to the credibility of the judiciary. And yes, this is where a little credibility goes if you confirm that you're a father who's not a father. It is no one’s advantage: it is not the right father’s interest, it is not the wrong father’s interest, nor is it the child’s. In the worst case scenario, it is a lifelong tragedy for many people, and this should be addressed by the legislative power of Parliament, if the judiciary does not seem to understand this issue. One has to wonder why we are usually in a situation where such an initiative is needed again. Why does the judiciary interpret this rather obvious section of common sense in such a strange way? The article says that the two-year deadline can be passed if there are serious grounds. Is it not a strong argument to find out that paternity has gone differently than imagined before? What results in the right to make such interpretations that are alien to real life? At least this is not the law’s fault, according to my understanding, but the functioning of the judiciary. As has been seen many times before, the law interprets the law against the will of the legislator and the general sense of justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u158	Mr President! As a representative In his own speech, Mäkelä also referred to the rulings of the judge, they must also be repeated: ‘What is not the right and the right,thereis no law;for the sake of fairness,which is the law,it is accepted. “ Indeed, these are the instructions of Olaus Petr, which were first published in the 17th century. I myself hope that they will be applied a little more today. But I'm not going to judge the justice system. I believe that, as legislators, we have an obligation to legislate which cannot be interpreted contrary to these judicial orders. Mr Kopra's initiative to abolish Article 44 of the paternity law is very well suited to these guidelines, and I fully support it. The Fatherhood Act does not at present take into account justice and moderation in the articles on the correction of paternity. This time limit, which has been set, is in practice absolute in practice because of the case law, even though the law and its explanatory statement actually state otherwise. This does create unreasonable situations, as we have all been able to see in public. At present, the best interests of the child are not assessed at all if the action to remedy paternity is not dealt with. This is not only unreasonable, but also contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. So the child is consciously made of false identity and, in fact, dishonest childhood. This is not only unreasonable but also very cruel to a child. When a man who is neither a biological nor a social father is condemned as a legal father, the protection of his private life is violated. In my view, this is also contrary to fundamental rights. In fact, when paternity is not corrected, the child is required to find out for himself after his or her father’s 15th birthday. This doesn't sound very reasonable either. Actually, it sounds very cruel. The paternity law is primarily provided for in order to protect the rights of the child. Article 44 on the correction of paternity At its worst acts against the whole principle — and in vain. In Norway, for example, there is no time limit for the correction of paternity, and I do think that Norwegian society has endured it quite well. This provision therefore does not add any added value to the law which the District Court could not assess when it had to deal with an action for annulment of paternity. When a lawsuit has to be dealt with, the child’s best interests will always have to be assessed at the same time. This would be in everyone's interest and would be in line with the human rights obligations to which Finland has committed itself. I believe that there is actually no justification for this time limit. Although this excellent initiative by Mr Kopra relates to the paternity law, which will, of course, be removed now by the Parenthood Act, which the government has decided to adopt, it is, in my view, well-founded to deal with. I do think that the committee would be in favour of putting this initiative in a package at the latest when the parenting law arrives and going over it in the same context. This is a one-off unnecessary and unnecessary section which is causing human suffering today. Mr President! Of course, I believe that waiting for a parenting law would be a delay in this situation and, of course, I would like the committee to deal with this issue earlier, but I think it is realistic that it will be dealt with when the parenting law arrives in committee. But once I have said that too — and I would like to thank Mr Kopra for taking the initiative — I am in favour of this and I hope that it will receive support across party boundaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u159	Mr President! Let me be frank and answer Mrs Kärnä: I hope that all parties will support this bill. At least we ourselves and the party I represent would like to have a serious debate on this and we would now like to try to cut this issue apart from the future parenting law, because this is a much simpler matter to deal with and should be dealt with as soon as possible. Mr President! Finland is the rule of law, in which the law protects the fundamental rights, human rights and the rights of children. However, laws may also impose restrictions on the exercise of justice where they have been drafted in a ambiguous manner or where the articles can be used differently from those intended by the legislator. I regret that this has happened with regard to paternity law. I am familiar with the case of public access to the wrong application of paternity law and its events do not fit my description of the rule of law. In itself, in an unfortunate series of events, the law has prevented the correction of paternity and the taking of justice. A court order violates the right of a child to know his father and the right to know his or her own origin and inflicts human suffering on a number of persons involved. All fundamental rights should be protected by public authorities, as stated in the Constitution, § 22, in particular the rights of the child. The violation of fundamental rights is a matter of state rights, but it must be justified in the rule of law, and the reason must be to protect some other right. I feel that this is not the case with paternity law. The preservation of fatherhood by the wrong person who tries to correct paternity harms both him and the child, whose protection should be the primary task of justice. The Convention on the Rights of the Child obliges the rights and authorities to assess the best interests of the child as a matter of priority in the case of the child. Unfortunately, this is not the case with the paternity law. The artificial time limit precludes the handling of an action and hence the assessment of the best interests of the child. There is no basis for maintaining the time limit. In Norway, as mentioned earlier, there is no time limit for the correction of paternity. In our own legislation, the time limit does not achieve anything that the district court itself cannot assess. In fact, Finland has already been pointed out enough times in the past about paternity legislation and children's rights. Mr Kopra's initiative seeks to remove one unnecessary section of the law against the will of the legislators. Removing the article would make the law not only more effective but also more humane. The actions should be assessed on a case-by-case basis, so that the assessment of the best interests of the child required by the Convention on the Rights of the Child would be better carried out. The bill must be supported, and I hope that it will be dealt with, as I said earlier, as a separate parenting law in preparation. For the first time in the Parliament, the unfairness of the period of application of paternity law has been raised already in 2017. I hope that in 2020 the matter will proceed to adoption after a quick committee round.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u160	Mr President! Becoming a father is a wonderful moment in which something so great is going to happen. For many of us, it means so much that we begin to define our lives during the time before and during the time after that. That is why I am firmly convinced that having a child and becoming a father is the finest thing that can happen in the life of a man who dreams of starting a family. Unfortunately, however, not all stories have a happy ending. A year ago in January, we were saddened to read about a very unusual incident in the media that deeply shocked the public's sense of justice. On the basis of the news, the South Karelia District Court discussed an event in which the couple who had tried to have a child for several years had finally had their hopes fulfilled, but later it had been brutally discovered that the husband was not the biological father of the child. In that case, the time had passed so much that the man who had been the victim of this insidious plot was no longer able to bring an action for the annulment of paternity. In addition to the inestimable human suffering, the cost of providing for the child has been borne by the victim until the age of adulthood, for the man is still the father of the child in the eyes of the law to this day. Mr President! I believe that the laws laid down by politicians must be judged primarily by results and not by good intentions. I am well aware that, at the time of the adoption of the current paternity law, it has been hoped that any correction of the ills would be done at an early stage or in agreement with the biological father of the child. However, on the basis of this widely publicized case, it can already be seen that the current paternity law is not, from the point of view of the outcome, fit to defend the child’s overall interests and dreams of paternity from misleading or even fraudulent behaviour. I am grateful that Mr Kopra has made a determined effort to defend those who are unquestionably mistreated by current legislation through his legislative initiative. I think it is clear that it is not only the task of the legislation to protect children in themselves but also to guarantee everyone the starting point for a family life that is as good and balanced as possible. I would therefore like to express my support at this stage for this initiative, which is urgently seeking to correct the deep and heavy injustice that the current situation has allowed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u161	Mr President! We have a legislative initiative here to repeal section 44 of the paternity law, and Mr Kopra has made a good bill. The crude content of the bill is that at the moment the paternity law has such a two-year period, during which time one must apply, in its way to bring an action against the prohibition of paternity, could it be said so? In other words, a claim must be made for the birth of a child by two years if you have either signed up as a father or automatically registered as a father by marriage for a child. Such a situation, which has been widely displayed in public, has been available to all in the paper, and this was a case in which a child was born within the marriage and, near this two - year deadline, the matter has been revealed to this father, who was then not a biological father. The application has not been made within two years of birth, but it has been somewhat late, and according to Finnish law this is then, could you say, the father of the child. This is neither fair nor fair. The judge’s instructions from 450 years ago say that what is neither right nor reasonable cannot be a law, and it is we who have been chosen here to legislate that must change this point in such a way that this child also has his own legal father, who is his biological father. This is quite an exceptional case. I believe that there are indications here that the biological father is also known, but in this case the mother has become somewhat difficult and the right has thus been found to be the father of the child of this man during the marriage under the laws we have passed. This law must now be amended. I support the proposal made by Mr Kopra and would like this amendment to be made in such a way that this widely publicised case can also be corrected in such a way that this case is also covered by the new law and can be dealt with in the best interests of the child in such a way that he can have his biological father as his legal father and this ‘false’ from the obligation of access. This isn't right for any of them. Thank you, Mr Kopra, for the presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u162	Mr President! The article provides that proceedings must be instituted within two years of the birth or confirmation of paternity of the child. Otherwise, it shall not be admissible. That's more than unfair. We should also pay attention to the deadlines. Consider: Politically, the Prosecutor General may raise arbitrary charges for spreading opinions and knowledge and even years ago for quoting Bible passages. Unfortunately, there are a lot of things really broken in this society. Mr President! The bill seeks to repeal the entire section 44 of the paternity law. This is a good initiative and I warmly support it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u163	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about the reform of the paternity law, but it still seems rather slow for the gentlemen to be busy here. This house would indeed have the opportunity to show agility and willingness to correct the great injustice that we have all been reading about in the media. Here, in several speeches by the government party, there have been some small promises that the misdemeanor of paternity law would be changed as part of the reform of the parental law, and this actually brings the victim's present pain further and further into the future. Earlier in this Chamber, when we heard Mr Räsänen's speech on an experienced parliamentary day, in which he was very sceptical that this parental law would be very soon to be completed, I would like to express my disappointment at the fact that there is no willingness here to take this matter forward on a timely basis so that a clear message can be sent to the victim that here we Members of Parliament are keen to correct clearly the failed legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u164	Mr President! I would like to thank colleagues for a good and constructive debate, and it has been particularly gratifying to see that, in my interpretation, all the parliamentary groups have participated in the debate and that the tone of the debate has been very favourable to the initiative. Mr Heikkinen referred here to a number of speeches which said that we should wait for this discussion of the Parenthood Act. I share the view expressed by Mr Heikkinen and many others that we should not wait for the parenting law to be dealt with but, on the contrary, move forward as quickly as possible with this piece of legislation, and I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights will hear this wish here in the Chamber. It is also desirable that, when this revolution is made, it should apply to all cases to which it has been applied since the entry into force of the current paternity law, i.e. since 2016. To sum up, I would like to say that my heart is warmed up by the humanity and understanding that has prevailed in this Chamber, and clearly the wisdom that colleagues have in this matter. I hope that the committee will now hear these words from this Chamber and take them into account in its work and come to a positive conclusion in its own work, so that the objectives of the legislative initiative are realised.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u165	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u166	Mr President! The purpose of this bill is to amend the bankruptcy law so as to exempt the debtor from the liability of those debts for which the bankruptcy does not result in a full settlement. In other words, after losing everything, an experienced entrepreneur could one day try again instead of being trapped in a penal debt trap, in debt imprisonment for decades. An entrepreneur could get a second chance. This can also be called a personal bankruptcy, and this would be a procedure in which an individual could turn a debt-free bankruptcy into a company. There are different variations in the world, i.e. the bankruptcy law is completely possible to reform in such a way that a responsible and honest entrepreneur is released from debt imprisonment and thus stays on an equal footing in society. Finland has an extremely strict and hopeless bankruptcy law. Such a reform of bankruptcy law, which I propose, would prevent long-term debt imprisonment and support re-introduction. In addition, I propose in this bill that interest on late payments be suspended. This will avoid the deliberate prolongation and punitive nature of the bankruptcy process. Legislation should better ensure that bankruptcy does not lead to an excessive deleveraging and, on the other hand, should support and encourage experienced entrepreneurs to try again. Entrepreneurship is the cornerstone of Finnish welfare society and its importance is growing. Small and medium-sized enterprises are important employers in our country, and the most new jobs are created in the SME sector. We must ensure that the conditions for entrepreneurship are in order. Our hardworking entrepreneurs need and deserve a supportive, reasonable and fair operating environment. Unfortunately, much work remains to be done in Finland. The reform of bankruptcy law in accordance with my bill will prevent unemployment on the one hand and increase employment on the other. The purpose of this bill is to contribute to the survival of bankruptcy and to encourage a new start and thus to create more jobs. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the main source of employment and, in particular, the SME sector is the sector with the highest number of new jobs. Entrepreneurship is therefore of paramount importance. Research has shown, however, that the willingness to become an entrepreneur is low, and the main single reason has been mentioned as excessive financial risks. If the company does not turn out to be profitable, a debt trap of decades may result from bankruptcy. Long-term debt imprisonment prevents influencing one’s own financial situation, which threatens one’s autonomy and is an unreasonable penalty for taking an entrepreneurial risk. The number of sole entrepreneurs has increased in recent years. In addition, there are 93 per cent of the total number of enterprises with fewer than ten employees in Finland. They are very risky when economic and market fluctuations occur. Risk-taking is an inherent part of entrepreneurship, and risks are also often realised, as up to half of companies stop operating within five years of starting up. Bankruptcy is common in economic activity. Miscalculations and failures are humane. I don't think any of us have ever failed in our lives. Mr President! Bankruptcy should be seen as a normal procedure to put an end to loss-making business, to give way to a new one, and also to enable economic and social restructuring. Sometimes the signs of bankruptcy are already in the air, but because the consequences are so severe, entrepreneurs may try to hold on to the last and prolong the process unnecessarily long. The problem is not with an entrepreneur, but with legislation that is too strict. As the application for bankruptcy is prolonged and we try to find the last hope of not losing everything, problems usually accumulate and also make it difficult to cope with debts. In its current form, bankruptcy law does not therefore support entrepreneurship or employment, but imposes excessive penalties for taking risks. In addition to the fact that entrepreneurs always risk their financial situation, the impact also goes much further. Bankruptcy and a long-term debt trap affect not only the life of an entrepreneur but also the well-being and financial situation of his family as a whole, the lives of children and perhaps even the lives of relatives. Economic problems make life difficult for families and cause different social problems. For example, it has been shown that children in the recession suffer more from different kinds of mental problems than others. The consequences of the recession will still be evident in our society after decades. At the moment, the need for this legislative change is particularly great because our country is facing an economic disaster caused by the corona. According to expert estimates, this epidemic can at its worst cause a massive wave of bankruptcy, drive thousands of companies into despair and a deep recession in the Finnish economy. The global coronavirus pandemic that has been going on almost all year has kept our economy in a constant stranglehold. Unfortunately, it seems that the spread of the epidemic in our country is intensifying and winter is becoming difficult. There's still no end in sight. Even a serious company can go bankrupt due to unexpected factors affecting the market. Mr President! The social impact of bankruptcy must not be underestimated. Bankruptcy is driving a person into a crisis. Sometimes a period of unemployment is followed by bankruptcy, and studies have shown that long-term unemployment has a negative impact on people’s well-being. In addition, efforts must be made to dismantle the stigma of bankruptcy and stigmatism. Failure is no shame. In other parts of the world, those who have gone through bankruptcy are considered competent, experienced and with much quiet knowledge. They have learned from miscalculations and adversities. International studies also show that those who have experienced bankruptcy will be more successful and better employed when they get a second chance. They have experience and understanding in dealing with and dealing with crises, as well as a deep understanding of the business world and business. We should not lose this potential here in Finland by keeping these people trapped in debt for years. The recession in the '90s caused a huge number of bankruptcies and mass unemployment. Entrepreneurs were left to pay their bankruptcy debts for decades. The wave of bankruptcy caused serious, long - term, very negative consequences and inhuman suffering. It is estimated that as many as 100,000 people were permanently excluded from working life. Many bankrupt entrepreneurs never got on their feet. We must not let this happen again. With the prolonged epidemic, the wave of bankruptcy remains a real threat. Until now, temporary amendments to the bankruptcy law, company subsidies and other measures have curbed the number of bankruptcies, but at some point the wall will be met if demand does not return to normal. This reform of the bankruptcy legislation that I am proposing is necessary during a stable economy, but particularly important in a time of crisis. We have to make it possible to start again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u167	Thank you for the introduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u168	Mr President! The economic crisis has driven many entrepreneurs into distress. For many entrepreneurs who have experienced the recession of the 1990s and for us children of the recession, this time has brought back memories of decades ago. As a result of the recession, many lost their livelihoods, possessions, some of their families, and lives. This has happened and is now threatening to happen to countless Finnish hero entrepreneurs. Mr Sjöblom's bill is intended to amend the bankruptcy law in such a way as to allow for personal bankruptcy. Entrepreneurship is about creativity, diligence, courage and risk-taking. Without the risk of trying, our society cannot succeed. In order to continue to find those who are willing to bear risks and create our well-being, there must be not only the right to keep a greater share of the fruits of success to themselves, but also the right to fail. I think this is one of the biggest weaknesses in our social welfare state. The economic success of individuals is not sufficiently accepted in Finland, but also failure is not accepted. Risk-taking will be punished, not given another chance. A new opportunity — that is what we need. As stated in the bill, international studies have shown that those who have experienced bankruptcy are more successful and employ better when they get a second chance. Mr President! Entrepreneurs should not be in debt imprisonment for years, especially if the risk is realised for reasons independent of the entrepreneur. However, this was the case with the recession of the '90s, and it is still the case. Even if the entrepreneur has handled his business carefully, he is prepared, a financially sound and viable company can go bankrupt because of changes in the market or, as is happening now, because of a crisis situation in a completely unpredictable society. Even if the entrepreneur has no part or lot in the economic crisis, he will have to bear the consequences. In Finland, as has been said, international bankruptcy legislation is very stringent. The Bankruptcy Act provides for the bankruptcy of a natural person, in which, however, the debtor is liable for outstanding debts with subsequent income and assets. As a result of these legal effects of bankruptcy, a bankrupt SME will only get a fresh start through a long and painful debt arrangement. The 1993 law on the arrangement of a private person’s debt allows the court to lay down arrangements for his or her debts in order to remedy the financial situation of an insolvent individual and to establish a payment programme corresponding to his or her ability to pay. The debt arrangement therefore repays part of the debts in accordance with the payment plan. However, experts have criticised the Debt Arrangements Act as a patchwork and a lack of clarity. Indeed, the private person’s debt arrangement is inadequate and complex and puts entrepreneurs in practice also in an unequal position on the basis of the company’s form. Mr President! Many Finnish SMEs have taken a significant personal risk in creating Finnish well-being. Such risk-taking must be encouraged and failure must also be accepted. Finland cannot afford to suppress wealth around itself The power of creative entrepreneurship under the debt burden if the risk of a responsible entrepreneur is realised. Giving a new start would support entrepreneurship and hence employment. Personal bankruptcy should be made possible, as has been the case in a number of countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u169	Mr President! Personal bankruptcy in the world has been benchmarked, and one should learn in which countries it has been well implemented and whether something similar can be brought from there and from these doctrines to Finland. That is why I feel that Mr Sjöblom's proposal on this point is good, because it will at least produce this debate, whether we could possibly help entrepreneurs even more, and primarily, as people who may even be subject to very difficult debt imprisonment at this point. At the same time, I see that the entrepreneurial and business-friendly government has made an active effort to push bankruptcy-related measures as far as possible during this interest rate, so that as many companies as possible can hold on to, for example, these billion-dollar subsidies during this interest rate, and that the company will be able to stand up and work there. At some point, as Mr Vestman and the previous speaker said, the wall comes up against companies going into bankruptcy and debt restructuring, and that is also why it makes sense to consider such other options at this point. It is quite clear that when an entrepreneur himself is not responsible for a systemic crisis hitting the world economy like a corona epidemic, he cannot be treated in exactly the same way as an entrepreneur who has gone bankrupt because, for example, he has failed some of his obligations. There are two completely different situations here, and here I feel that the legislation treats these people quite the same way, and that has to change now. The fact that a person and an entrepreneur who goes bankrupt but has nothing to do with it is a very heavy punishment for long-term debt imprisonment and hence social and mental problems. In this time I feel that the government and we in the government must enable and facilitate the creation of businesses, lower the risk as low as we can. I feel that it would be sensible now in this time to tell people that we are behind them, that if they are too long laid off and have a business idea, we want to support them in it. At this point, as well as the government in general, but also the municipalities, in particular, have a responsibility, and we now need to think more about this. A good, supportive, thought-provoking bill from Mr Sjöblom. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u170	Mr President! We are dealing with a legislative initiative to amend the bankruptcy law, which would, in my view, bring our bankruptcy legislation closer to allowing personal bankruptcy. When I was a kid, my own father worked for a company that went bankrupt. It is certainly familiar to everyone in this Chamber, Vesi-Seppo was this bankrupt company, and that bankruptcy is still under discussion. That bankruptcy wrecked one really big company. If it had been allowed to continue, Finland would probably be different, or at least my country of origin and my municipality of residence would be different. This is my first memory of bankruptcy. Then came the recession of the '90s. At that time, several entrepreneurs made bankruptcies. They have become unimaginably long, you might say, too long debts to pay. They've been living in such a prison of debt. Now we have a corona at hand, and in the aftermath of this corona we have thousands and thousands of bankruptcies. I think it is quite clear to all of us. Furthermore, this bill is very welcome and timely because of the way in which our government operates at the moment. Mr President! The government is bankrupting dozens of peat entrepreneurs and farmers with these measures, as it has done. That is why this law is very timely. Government measures currently have a major impact on such entrepreneurs who have made a generation shift in the field of peat production, for example. The fact that we are approaching a personal bankruptcy is a good thing, and I believe that this must be speedily pushed through so that these entrepreneurs will have a new opportunity to continue to seek employment as they have done so far. These jobs would not exist without these entrepreneurs, and many of them have a solid experience already in the past, and this would give them a new opportunity to act as an entrepreneur. Of course, there should be no pardon for entrepreneurs who have gone bankrupt with some kind of perversion and simply want to clean their own table. This is where it might be hard to draw the line. Mr Vestman spoke very well about these matters here, and he also spoke of debt restructuring. My parliamentary assistant, who also gave me some tips on this subject, has worked as a debt restructuring entrepreneur in her civil profession and has been working with her for 30 years on corporate restructuring and private debt arrangements. I have a few bills coming up for this myself. Now during the corona period, my assistant is daily monitoring the situation, and according to the information I have just received from him today, 25. on November, there is no record of any new corporate restructuring events on the national customer information lists. Therefore, Mr President, no new applications for district courts or anything else. This certainly does not mean that everything is well in the kingdom. Rather, this indicates that the calm is ahead of the storm. We will have to say together that once these government bans on the promotion of bankruptcy are lifted, this situation may be very chaotic and many of these will arise. The Minister of Justice has ordered that unnecessary bankruptcies should not take place in this situation, and I understand that the order will end in a few months, according to current information. It is inevitable that there will be a bankruptcy. This proposed legislative reform must therefore be brought into force as a matter of urgency. I am absolutely in favour of it and I support it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u171	Thank you. — I note that there are three speeches left at the moment and nine minutes left from this session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u172	Mr President! This initiative by Mrs Sjöblom proposes to amend the bankruptcy law so as to allow for individual bankruptcy. This will prevent long-term deleveraging and support re-employment. Small and medium-sized enterprises are an important source of employment: these entrepreneurs employ themselves, but they often also have employees, and there are a significant number of them. If we reduce the fear of becoming an entrepreneur, we will also gain employment. The number of sole entrepreneurs has grown in recent years, and in Finland around 93 per cent are enterprises with fewer than ten persons. This is a really big sector, and often that is the limit, that when you go past ten, then the threshold will rise to pay more. However, bankruptcy legislation in its current form does not support entrepreneurship or employment, but penalises risk-taking, which means that the entrepreneur is always risking his own financial situation. Possible bankruptcy and a long-term debt trap do not tempt us to try, but we should, especially in this situation, make the climate more entrepreneurial and so that people dare to try and create jobs in Finland as well. As has already been mentioned here, the recession in the 1990s has left its mark, and now we have a corona crisis that will leave its mark, but we have the opportunity to influence the mark it leaves here. As was the case in that speech by Mr Mäenpää, there are currently no bankruptcies when they are banned, but unfortunately they will be seen, and I agree that this law should be brought forward quickly so that we can rescue entrepreneurs from these debt traps and they will still dare to try. This is not their failure to any extent or bad business activity, but this time has abused them and it is unfair for them to be punished for it. But there will continue to be a need for better incentives and protection for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u173	Mr President! I wish such legislation had been in force in the '90s. I am very grateful to the author of this bill. This, if anything, is the development that is needed in this country. Entrepreneurship must not be a risk that strikes, for example, an entrepreneur who, for reasons beyond his control, is in distress, but entrepreneurship should be an opportunity in Finland, an opportunity to take care of this society through taxes, work he does, support his family, possibly employ — it should always be an opportunity. I came here for a moment to talk just because I know how it feels when the world falls down. About 30 years ago I experienced what it was like to be an entrepreneur, and we remember the recession of the 1990s — I experienced it through the heel and through the heaviest. I survived it myself, but a lot of my friends didn't, a few of my business friends back then are upstairs. If such legislation had been in place, we would have avoided many tragedies. Mr President! We have many people in Finland who are still hanging in the slack from the recession of the 1990s and who have still not survived the debt burdens, that at that time the debts were brutally sold to the garbage banks, which are then being raised, I would say, formally murdered these families and their lives. I really want to sincerely hope that this bill will move forward and that more legislation of this kind will come to Finland. I'm grateful. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u174	Mr President! The reform of the bankruptcy law is about the possibility of a personal bankruptcy, and I would like to start by saying that I warmly support this initiative by Mrs Sjöblom. Here in Finland, we regard the bankrupt almost automatically as a real failure. Such thinking does not lead to anything good, whether it is society or the entrepreneur himself. This corona time will be and will be a bitter battle for the existence of many companies. If a person fails, who will benefit if there is no way out? No one. Many representatives, most recently Mr Peltokangas, have raised the victims of the '90s recession, their situation today. It is quite incomprehensible that nothing has yet been done about this. There are still these victims of the recession, who are bubbling in their own lives and carrying that heavy burden. I would like to see the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, now take a piece of this and take this situation to the point that those who have suffered the recession of the 1990s will at last be forgiven. It's enough to have been hanging loose for decades. I have also been very close to seeing, and at this age, these situations of the recession of the 1990s and many companies, in which the entrepreneur is in terrible distress and in which the workers become unemployed. An entrepreneur is not an enemy. An entrepreneur is an opportunity to create jobs in Finland, and they are now urgently needed. Thank you again, Mr Sjöblom, for the initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u175	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u176	Mr President! Finland’s legislation on animal protection in next year will finally receive a long-awaited update. Hopefully, the new Animal Welfare Act will be comprehensive and actually secure animal rights at the practical level. One important aspect is the sanctions for the mistreatment of animals. I believe that there is an urgent need for substantial tightening up of penalties. At the moment, you can do about anything you want to do with the animals and you can survive with a fine. The risk of being caught is also non-existent, which means that there is also a pressing need for additional resources for monitoring. In this bill, I propose to amend the criminal code to include a criminal provision in the law on the violation of the ban on keeping animals. A penalty scale for non-compliance with a fixed-term or permanent ban would be a fine or imprisonment of no more than six months. The Criminal Code would be amended to allow more effective control of the ban on keeping animals. Since these offences now only result in fines, the authorities do not have the right to carry out proper inspections, even if there is a strong suspicion of abuse. Strong protection of privacy poses challenges in this respect for the enforcement of animal rights. The reform would also contribute to criminal liability for infringements of animal welfare and animal transport. In practice, the threshold for public authorities to intervene in animal abuse would be reduced by tightening penalties. The current provisions do not sufficiently reflect the fact that the authorities are not in a position to adequately monitor the implementation of the bans on keeping animals. Control is a very important piece of animal welfare. In the context of the legal amendment that entered into force in 2011, the regulation on the ban on the keeping of animals was tightened and a register of the ban on the keeping of animals was also introduced. The control of compliance with the ban is specifically intended by means of a more efficient register, and it is also essential for the credibility of the criminal justice system. Stronger sanctions also contribute to preventive animal protection violations. I also find it quite inconceivable that, although the penalties for mistreatment of animals have been tightened up in the past, the judicial decisions on penalties have strongly represented the so-called lighter head of the table. This must change, for the inability of animals to defend themselves makes these crimes and crimes particularly harsh. Mr President! The ban on the keeping of animals does not snap out of any small thing, but it is actually a serious infringement or omission of animals, which may have been going on for years. Regrettably, though, those who are often convicted still keep animals after punishment as before. This crazy business is now forced to be restricted and monitored more effectively, and that is where this bill would be a step in the right direction. And yet, even though sanctions were tightened up in general, for some reason judicial judgments do not use tougher decisions in their judgments. Mr President! The fact that we are talking about animal welfare and animal welfare does not in any way mean that care for the elderly, child welfare or small businesses are being neglected. They are not opposites but complement each other. We talk about different things here in Parliament all the time. They don't talk much about animals. Next spring there will be a reform of the animal welfare law, and that will probably be the time to talk. But this bill is a step in the direction in which people in Finland, for example, have already largely gone, that animals should be treated better. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u177	Mr President! Thank you to Mrs Elomaa for this bill to amend Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code. I'm gonna need it. It would include a criminal provision in the law on the violation of the ban on the keeping of animals. A penalty scale for non-compliance with a fixed-term or permanent ban would be a fine or imprisonment of no more than six months. We are finally getting the Animal Welfare Act to Parliament, hopefully during the spring, and it will certainly improve its animal welfare situation, but it is important that the penal code also be corrected, because it is this control and that it is possible to carry out control visits and check whether these provisions are being complied with. At the moment, when it comes to controls, hands are tied when it is not possible to go home and check the welfare of the animals when the punishment is too mild. These animal-protection crimes have also, as Mrs Elomaa pointed out, often been interpreted in a mild way, even if the act is extremely gross. I visited the work of the Helsinki Animal Police some time ago, and they brought up this same problem, so this bill will be very much needed and would be able to improve the situation for the police, the animal police too, and of course, the vet, often together they make these visits to places where there are some problems or serious suspicions of animal protection violations. In this context, I would also like to point out that the extension of animal police activities throughout Finland would also improve animal welfare. It would have such a clear preventive effect, as would this bill and that it is taken seriously. Unfortunately, we also have people in the service who do not necessarily take animal welfare violations seriously. And to my regret, I see that there is no one in the House who is represented by the Greens, and I hope that this will affect all the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u178	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Elomaa for this excellent bill as well. The penalty threat associated with the ban on keeping animals may have a preventive effect on the infringement of the ban on keeping animals. The imposition of the penalty threat also has a preventive effect on the conduct of animal welfare offences. The current choice of means is not effective enough for the implementation of the Animal Protection Act. At the moment, animals do not really have any legal certainty, and that is what we want to change. At present, an infringement of the ban on keeping animals under the Animal Welfare Act is considered to be an infringement of animal welfare for which fines can be imposed. The fact that there is no provision at criminal law level for non-compliance with the ban on keeping animals and that the maximum penalty for the offence is only a fine indicates that society is still not taking animal protection seriously enough. The ban on the keeping of animals is intended as a preventive measure so that the same person does not repeatedly cause serious nausea to the animals. In practice, however, even persons convicted of a serious animal-protection offence can, without anyone being able to keep on keeping animals, because there is virtually no control over compliance with the ban. The main reason for this is the criminal law that should now be amended. Mr President! According to the police, the ban on the keeping of animals is effectively enforced only when the authority has other business at the person’s home and there is a suspicion of mistreatment of the animals. In theory, the ban can also be enforced on the basis of reports received from the police. However, due to the protection of domestic peace, the authorities do not have the right to go to the person’s home on the basis of a mere suspicion of non-compliance with the ban on keeping animals, which is not sufficient grounds for carrying out the inspection. At the moment, the authorities have little control over compliance with the ban on keeping animals. If a maximum sentence of six months of imprisonment were imposed, the police would be given the authority to conduct a search for their homes in the event of suspicion of a violation of the ban on animals. I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry asked the public for their views on the need for reform of the Animal Protection Act when the law was reformed. When open questions were asked about the wishes for reform, about a quarter of the respondents demanded tougher sentences for animal welfare offences. Many also called for permanent bans on animals. The survey also showed that the adequacy of animal protection controls is one of the main concerns of the public in the field of animal protection. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u179	Mr President! Now we have a bill on animal welfare violations. Unfortunately, I have not been able to get to know this, but so much I would like to comment on this point that in some way it would be terribly important to have common rules and common practices all over Finland. Incidentally, just this morning, I watched a film from the Country Media where I saw, to put it outside, quite incomprehensible that big cattle have been destroyed, even though everything seems to be in order. There is nothing we can do about these things, but I wish there were even uniform practices around Finland, rules and laws and sections, so that there would be no room for interpretation. That is why it is certainly good that Elomaa’s performance in some way would bring such carefulness and some sort of scale to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u180	Mr. Speaker! I would like to thank Mrs Elomaa for this excellent initiative, and, in fact, it is a pity that we have this corona time on — I think that, if there were still an effort to collect the names, this would certainly have been easy enough to collect the 100 names. It is quite true that there is a serious problem that, when an infringement of the ban on keeping animals can only be fined, the authorities are not in a position to monitor this situation at the moment. I personally believe that if society has imposed and condemned a person to such punishment, that he must not keep animals, then of course that ban must be enforced, and if the ban is violated, it must also be accompanied by adequate sanctions. I consider this initiative to be very well-founded and sensible. I would like to point out to Mr Mäenpää that when you raised the issue of the Rural Media, I myself am in the belief that we have the best veterinarians in the world in Finland, and if a person, a rancher, is subject to a ban on keeping animals, the cattle are being exported, then this is a situation in which there have been repeated violations during a really long period of time. However, I think it is entirely justified that decisions of this kind should be justified in Finland to the full of justice. So I hope, representative. As far as this rural media is concerned, which by the way is not a member of the Council of Public Word, you would look a little further at this whole and not believe this kind of carp-like news coverage, which tells only one aspect of how this situation has been achieved. Thank you again, Mrs Elomaa, and I hope that the initiative will then receive due consideration in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u181	Mr President! Thank you to Elomaa for this good bill. Although there is no such thing as a hundred names, perhaps we should together ensure in committee that this really does go from there too, so that we have strong statements about it, the push is that it does, or it would be possible for us to ask the Committee on Legal Affairs to make a statement on this. It is our job to try to bring more of this to the finish line, even though there are no hundred names here. It is truly scandalous that the ban on keeping animals can be violated without any specific sanctions being imposed. Since these many involve animal abuse, abuse, when these restraining orders are issued, and even after that there is nothing more than being scratched by it, there is such a threshold that if a person has actually been guilty of mistreatment of animals, then there must be more sanctions, so that one actually does. This is happening, as it were, in the breeding of domestic animals or dogs, in the holding of cats, but unfortunately also in the case of larger livestock. However, I would like to emphasise that the other side of this issue must be seen for its part: the ability of farmers to cope with rural activities. When it tires out, hopelessness when incomes have been reduced so much that it once and for all ends, it becomes hopeless and people’s endurance is broken, unfortunately that’s what happens at that point. When a person is not well, it means under normal circumstances that an animal is not well either, so then you must always see what it is all about when these judgments are given. I do wish this success, and this animal police issue raised by Mr Laiho is one of the things that we really need to do more to promote. It will be ensured that matters now in this animal welfare legislation move in the direction that the committee too can concentrate on and influence the direction that, when it comes to animal welfare law, we must do everything in our power to safeguard it, and the proposal for a law in Elomaa is one part of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u182	Thank you. — And the author of the initiative, Mr Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u183	Mr President! I thank the representatives of Laiho, Lundén, Mäenpää, Kärnä and Myllykoski for their excellent comments and support for this bill. This is indeed the case that when man has been banned from keeping animals, the reasons for this are such that the animal or animals have already been mistreated — even dead or hungry, thirsty, ill, not treated, they have been so grossly considered — that the ban on keeping animals has now come. And if the police would really like to go and see if it has been observed, often with the hints that new animals have been bought anyway, it is not the authority that gets there, because there is only that fine as a sanction. That is what this is all about. Representative Laiho raised this animal police issue, and in Helsinki there has been excellent results on how useful it is and should be brought to the country as a whole. Then there would be time for the police to investigate other crimes when there would be a very specific type who is familiar with these animal issues. Indeed, in Finland producers tend to treat animals very well, but in Finland they treat cattle and farm animals very well, but sometimes there are these situations, that there have been major violations and crimes of long, long-term mistreatment of animals, and that is when the ban on keeping animals falls apart. Finland also currently has about 800,000 dogs in humans. Korona time is a tight time. It is very important that attention should be paid to animal welfare in general, and, as I have said before, it is not in any way out of human and human welfare. It is important to treat animals well, and everyone will benefit from it. And thank you again, there were very good speeches. Then there was the fact that I really had this bill for almost six months, and then there was the call from the central office that you should come and get that this has been here for so long. Well, I did put in some press releases, but it's sort of passed. When it's been this corona time and the delegates have a lot of work to do, they probably haven't noticed that e-mail since. But let us hope that this initiative will move forward. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u184	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u185	Mr President! On 29 September 2019, Helsingin Sanomat published an advertisement paid by the People’s Republic of China in its print magazine. In this advertisement, the Chinese State distributed clearly verifiable disinformation about the situation and violence in Hong Kong. The advertisement claimed that Hong Kong was trying to resolve the situation without violence, even though on the same day the police used rubber bullets, tear gas and water cannons against demonstrators. The situation is particularly corroded by the fact that, at the same time, the police forces under the direction of the Hong Kong People’s Republic of China also abused media representatives in that area. Kaius Niemi, the Chief Editor of Helsingin Sanomat, defended the publication of the ad by appealing to the indeterminate ‘freedom of advertising’ and to the guidelines of the Chamber of Commerce and theMainonnanetic Council, which do not have to do with the commercial media’scomprehensiveness, business decisions,the freedom of expression or the foreign state’s policy propaganda. I find this policy of Helsingin Sanomat worrying, because here in Finland we have been talking for years about the possible influence of Russia on information and hybrids. It is very confusing that this first hybrid operation in Finland’s mass media was carried out by China and even in the country’s largest daily newspaper. If the threshold for Helsingin Sanomat to join such an operation is as low as this, what kind of threshold can that be in other mass media? At worst, it can be very low. Mr President! Finland has gradually been awakened and prepared for a variety of information and hybrid influences. This is shown by the reaction of social media to the publication of Helsingin Sanomat. However, I think it is clear that with this case we have a need for legislation that criminalises such activities from media classified as mass media. In my opinion, Finland cannot afford to be a country in which any foreign power can get its own political propaganda message to be ground up by mass media. It is a question of national security and public confidence in the impartiality of mass media. Mr President! On this basis, I have proposed in my bill that Chapter 12 of the Criminal Code should be amended to include under treason a clause the dissemination of misleading information by a foreign state. Such a crime could be punishable by a fine or imprisonment for up to two years. A company would also be designated as a criminal offence. Following the presentation of this bill, I would like to say to the Members who are in the Chamber: I would like to thank Mrs Laiho for the example you have given. You have spoken here in the toilet on the mask, and I myself will also talk about this toilet in the future on the mask. I believe that the most important thing about any workplace is safety at work. We have a responsibility to ourselves, we have a responsibility to the health of our colleagues, and we can strengthen it by wearing a mask, and if a representative is not able to wear a mask or a visor, I think it would be worth staying out of the Chamber. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u186	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes is set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u187	Mr President! In this bill, I propose that Article 18(2) of the Act on support for the functioning of the elderly population and on social and health services for the elderly be amended so that, in future, the elderly person will have the right to receive non-emergency social services granted to him without undue delay and no later than one month after taking a decision instead of the current three months. We currently have over 90,000 customers in elderly services, 57 per cent of whom are home care customers and 43 per cent in 24-hour care. In the case of round-the-clock care, in October, a nursing dimensioning law was adopted, which will improve the personnel size of 24-hour care, but at the same time the situation in home care is extremely worrying. Now that efforts are being made to get staff there for 24 - hour care, there is a risk that home care nurses will leave. Unfortunately, this has already been seen in the perverse aspects of this self-sustaining legislation, i.e. now that 24-hour care is being provided in municipalities, so it seems that municipalities are reducing the number of residents of 24-hour care and planning services to circumvent the standards of care. The shortage of nurses may drive municipalities to favour intermediate housing services that do not require medical staff to the same extent as in enhanced service housing that is supervised. The current law on supporting the functional capacity of the ageing population states: ‘An elderly person has the right to obtain non-urgent socialservices without undue delay and no more than three months after a decision has This three-month waiting period has proved to be too long in practice. When an elderly person is found no longer to be able to survive at home with the support of more home care visits, the situation is already so difficult that the care place should be arranged more quickly, and when it is determined how quickly those care places will be provided, according to the data from the municipal survey conducted by THL in 2018, the care place could have to wait longer than three months for 37 per cent of the elderly. Social and health care professionals are well aware that the situation in home care is very difficult. There are many sick elderly people who also require a lot of medical and medical skills and specifically require staff who are capable of home care there. There cannot be just any untrained staff, and it is therefore necessary to have enough professionals there. That is why I also hope that the government will bring into Parliament as soon as possible an old-age service law, which would allow us to look at the rest of the services of care for the elderly in addition to this 24-hour care. So now this situation of 24-hour care has been corrected, but other important points that would require intervention, namely the situation of home care and the situation of family carers have not been addressed. The housekeepers have already been on display a lot today. So, when this waiting period from three months to one month is tightened, we could also count on it — or customers and relatives could count on it — that when the time comes to need a place for its 24 - hour care, it can and will not have to wait unduly long. Yet more about these care places: if this care guarantee is tightened, it would also be important to have national uniform criteria for access to care so that elderly people around Finland are equal, equal in terms of the criteria by which the places of 24-hour care are distributed. It is also particularly important in the case of social welfare reform, that our elderly people receive high-quality and good care throughout Finland and can also be monitored both in home care and around-the-clock care with adequate supervision.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u188	Mr President! Finland has an ageing people, and during this reign more welfare-related legal reforms must be carried out. The greatest of these is the social war, but there is also this old-age service law, which must now be implemented here. I believe that Mr Laiho's commendable bill is precisely an attempt to bring about the debate to see that around 37% of people are actually suffering from these kind of negligence. When promoting the old-age service law, it must also be understood that social well-being, mental well-being is also accompanied by an understanding that these people, however physically independent, are no longer capable of managing their banking and accounting and paperwork at home, and the idea that digital leaps would not be achieved by increasing numbers of Finns must also be summed up in these social services. On this point, I would like to call not only for this initiative by Mr Laiho, but also for the provision of digital services to these elderly people on an equal and equal footing with all other Finns to be clearly included in the Act on services for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u189	Mr President! I believe that the goal is shared by the government and Mr Laiho in this sense, that older people should be supported, whether it is a question of 24-hour care, home care or self-help, or the health and well-being of the older population in general. We made a huge effort to raise this minimum measure in the Act on Services for the Elderly, which has been in 24-hour care. A few years ago we were constantly faced with the horror stories, as it were, where there were considerably too few staff, sometimes even so that there were no staff between shifts, the elderly were left alone, some of our 24-hour units were delivered, and this was the first thing they wanted to correct, and there was a huge, massive investment, both economically and legally, when it was still wanted to be put into the old-age service law. Well, as far as home care is concerned, it is quite true that it cannot be thought that all the problems have been solved with this one thing — absolutely not. As far as home care is concerned, access to services is certainly one of the things that needs to be improved and that help can be provided as quickly as possible. We also vary the level of services depending on where people live in Finland, and that is why we are doing a social welfare reform that we are now aiming for more equal services. This must not mean, however, that misery is being divided, as it were, but we must also be able to raise the level at the same time so that the older population receives the necessary services. However, the most important attention should be paid to rehabilitation. We would be able to live a much better quality of life at home, but we would also be able to do more for ourselves when we were able to rehabilitate them, for example, after surgery or after some illness has occurred, and unfortunately we feel that the resources we currently have are not sufficient to do so, so more rehabilitation services must be provided so that it can also improve living and safety in the home of the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u190	Thank you. — And the author of the initiative, Mr Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u191	Mr President! Thank you, representatives al-Taee and Salonen, for their good speeches and for supporting the bill. I would also like to comment on Mr Salosen's rehabilitation programme. This is a very important issue, and it must also be — I would say in particular — taken into account in home care there, because the ability of the elderly to function will have a significant effect on the fact that if there is a disease, even if there is a cold, whether they survive at home or whether they are immediately on call and what the recovery period is like. This is a very important issue, which is often overlooked. In view of the way in which the situation of the elderly as a whole can be improved, I would like to think about that in terms of the rights of the elderly. We'd like to start thinking about what rights the old man has for that good care. This would certainly also help us to find a solution to home care. Thank you to all those who took part in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u192	Mr President! Of course, this is exactly the way it is, and it is quite a long way to go. I also remember from my own time in the care of the elderly when I was working there, that the rights of the elderly were on a wish list — that if they were to be achieved without any legislation — quite differently from those of the children and the disabled at the time. And it was already a big step in bringing about legislation that safeguards certain things for the elderly, but it is still important to have a debate on what their rights are. And when I think that many have made a long career, as if giving everything to society first, of course, but also to the family, to the children, then together we should see to it that those rights exist without having to be asked for separately. Finally, this country needs more community living for the elderly. That would also solve another problem. If rehabilitation is one, community living would certainly also be rehabilitative for many. Loneliness is also one of the problems that many older people suffer from. Through communal housing we could also better solve this loneliness and thus increase mental well-being, so it would be, could it be said, such a win-win situation: as well as physical condition would certainly improve in community housing but also mental well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u193	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u194	Mr President! The purpose of this bill is to amend the hunting law so that the cormorants are transferred to the list of species in Section 5 of the Hunting Act. This means that the cormorants would be removed from the Nature Conservation Act. As the cormorants are part of wild birds within the meaning of Article 1 of the EU Birds Directive and the relevant provisions of the Birds Directive, the cormorants also need to be reassured and derogations provided for by the amendment to the Regulation on protection. Mr President! I took the initiative to classify cormorants and white cheek geese as game birds as early as 2015. As a Member of Parliament, I have never received as much feedback on anything as I did at the time. I have talked a lot about issues such as the elderly or children — nothing so much feedback. The feedback was also from the side to the side, even from very threatening messages to praise and praise. However, my initiative for action expired at the end of the parliamentary term. Since then, the debate has only intensified for both birds. I've been following it with interest. Many solutions have also been put forward and sought over the years. In the last instance, Parliament has been given a citizens' initiative to allow hunting for white cheek geese. So now we have a similar solution for classifying cormorants as game birds. The cormorants share people’s opinions and even evoke strong feelings in us. Those in favour of the protection of species are easily labeled as fanatics out of everyday reality, and people who suffer from the disadvantages of birds are again uncivilized natural destroyers. I'm sure the truth is something completely different. A heated confrontation on the subject prevents us from finding solutions that, however, are sorely needed. My bill is one attempt to resolve the matter. Mr President! The cormorants have been nesting in Finland since the 1990s. The damage caused by cormorants has increased with the strong growth of stocks. In 2019 a total of 25700 pair of nesting cormorants were calculated in Finland. The problem of cormorants is significant in, for example, Varsinais-Suomi and Satakunta. At the municipal level, the growth has been strongest in Rauma, where the stock almost tripled in 2019 and continued to grow in the following year: in summer 2020 3,600 nests were observed in Rauma, compared with 2080 nests in summer 2019 and 795 nests in summer 2018. The problem of cormorants has been mentioned for a long time, but there is still no national response to the harm caused by cormorants. Oversized cormorants are currently causing significant damage to the coastal fishing industry. Birds’ feces also damage island nature by killing trees and other plants with bird - nesting bullets. These dead ghost bullets also cause odour damage. Recreational areas and the surroundings of leisure settlements are changing in a terrible way with the nesting of cormorants. Currently, the Ely Centre can be authorised to expel cormorants through the exemption scheme. However, authorisations have been granted infrequently. Furthermore, the case-law considers that the conditions for exemption should be interpreted in a restrictive manner and that general explanations of the damage caused by birds cannot be considered sufficient. Given that the reality experienced by the people of the region is very different and that the stock growth is significant, the prevention of serious damage by derogation from the Nature Conservation Act is not sufficient, in line with current practice. The exemption system is currently not functioning as it is being granted in Finland under stricter conditions than required by the EU. The interpretations of the authorities differ significantly, for example, from those of the Danish and Swedish authorities in the case of derogations for cormorants. Mr President! Reducing harm caused by cormorants requires extensive cooperation between traders and public authorities. The transfer to the game species to be hunted would be part of this range of means. The current population of the cormorants could withstand hunting. It's just harassment that causes the Colonies to move to another place. Hunting should therefore be allowed outside the breeding season to have a real impact on the size of the stock. Game hunting is a responsible way to control the size of the stock and thus to reconcile cormorants and people with the common habitat. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u195	Mr President! The cormorants have grown unreasonably large. Bird columnes damage delicate insular nature with their feces by killing trees and other plants and causing significant odour damage. In fact, it makes no sense to protect viable bird species. Business, property and recreational use are under threat in the archipelago and coastal areas. While another known species of protection, the white goose, is a pest of cities and crops on a large scale, the cormorade is highlighted as a handicap just along the coasts and archipelago. However, the archipelago must not be left buried under the remains of the cormorants. The bill now under discussion proposes the inclusion of a cormorants in the hunting law out of the Nature Conservation Act. As pointed out in the above-mentioned presentation, the Birds Directive therefore requires protection, but this minimum level of protection could be achieved by means of a separate protection under the Hunting Regulation as set out in the initiative. In the case of white cheek geese, at least Sweden and Estonia are known for their practical experience in the field of protective hunting authorised by the EU. We in the assembly have presented just the same model for the control of the stock of a truly vibrant white - cheeked goose. Mr President! The cormorants have really grown strongly since the 1990s. Merimetso is a very vibrant local species in the archipelago region of Finland. The current breeding stock in Finland is over 25,000 pairs. It has been claimed that the cormorants are growing until they reach the balance of carrying capacity. However, the strong growth of the stock suggests that the stock will grow quite unsustainablely from the point of view of other insular nature and its use and livelihoods. Interestingly, nature does seem to be correcting its problem itself. There are indications that the strengthened sea eagle helps to thin out cormorants in the archipelago. In the Archipelago Sea, the Bothnian Sea and the Western Gulf of Finland, in particular, the impact of the eagle on the cormorta settlements has been observed. Mr President! The cormorants do not nest individually here and there in the archipelago, but in the communities of hundreds and even thousands of couples in general. These bird columns cause massive local damage not only to the precious nature but also to the property of the surrounding areas. Real estate agents have estimated that property values have fallen and their sale may be almost impossible in the neighbouring waters of Finland’s largest cormorta colony. The protection of viable birds should not undermine the fundamental rights of property protection. According to estimates, cormorants contribute to local eutrophication of waters, and spawning areas of local importance are also at risk. It really doesn't make sense to protect a viable species. I support the initiative taken by Mr Salonen to add the cormorants to the hunting law. President! These Hitchcock birds, cormorants and white-cheese geese will be allowed to cause damage until the government and the minister are found who is determined to transfer these species, these vibrant laws, these game species and allow protection hunting, as has been done in some EU countries for the vital species protected by this Birds Directive. Unfortunately, it now seems that the use of this common sense is hindered by the Department of the Centre and Minister Leppa's own department, where there seems to be no room for these species to be included in hunting law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u196	Mr President! Marine forests cause direct financial damage to land owners when, for example, they take over the island in coastal urban areas, and under current legislation nothing can be done about it. The excrement of cormorants is so toxic that it spoils the soil in such a way that all crops die with trees. Faeces also spread with rains and ocean currents to nearby shores, where water quality is thus also compromised. The fishing industry suffers enormously from cormorants. I have been talking to fishermen, and their message has been that cormorants are one of the main reasons for the deteriorating profitability of fishing, which means that too large a cormorants stock is an important reason for the cessation of commercial fishing activities. It can be said, therefore, that cormorants compete directly with the fishing industry but do not pay taxes on their livelihoods as fishermen do, but peel off cream, so to speak. Does man have to give way to cormorants? In the annual calculation of the Finnish Environment Agency's cormorants stock, it has been found that the cormorants stock in the Rauma Archipelago had tripled in one year. That's what it's been doing all along the coast. It is clear that we must now move forward and make decisions. In Finland, the deer population is being reduced every autumn for the sake of people, and now it is time to reduce the harmful cormorants stock. Now is the time to react that there will be no millions of cormorants here in Finland in the future. That would mean that the lives of coastal residents would become more and more difficult. The Finnish Association of Professional Fishermen has stated in this month's press release that if society wants to maintain a harmfully large cormorants stock causing serious damage to commercial fishing, the damage must be compensated for by fishing entrepreneurs. I agree. The Finnish Union of Professional Fishermen has also been concerned for a long time about the decline in the number of professional fishermen, and the arrival of new fishermen in the sector is negligible, almost insignificant. If nothing is done, the situation will be reflected in the number of fishermen and fish coming to the counter in the coming years and the supply of domestic fish to consumers will be jeopardised if it does not stop. Mr President! I stand behind this bill because it also contributes to the livelihood of fishermen in the archipelago of my region of Vaasa. The cormorants cause great economic damage to island owners and fishermen. If the bill does not go through, it will be more and more difficult for fishermen in Coastal Finland, and thus one profession will end up at the end of its journey. When the catch comes from abroad, its carbon footprint does not match the government’s idea of improving the climate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u197	Mr President! The initiative to amend the hunting law by Mr Salonen to transfer the cormorants to the list of species in the hunting law is very welcome. There has also been a lot of feedback on this matter for myself, and it has been asked what can be done about it when these cormorants destroy nature and export the fishing industry. After all, we have had the White-Bowled Goose Citizens' Initiative, and there has been an attempt to turn this cormorants into a citizens' initiative, but the problem is that it is most visible during the summer, and then there is no time to fill the number of names required by the citizens' initiative and then it goes away. It is a very good thing that this has now been the subject of a legislative initiative, and hopefully this will bring it forward. The nests of the cormorants have continued to increase and are estimated to be about 26,000. For many fishermen, the economic disadvantages of cormorants have been the last nail to the coffin, and many have quit their jobs. The flocks of cormorants have considerably reduced the number of fish stocks, which has made it difficult for fishermen to earn a living. And like a representative here. Mäkynen pointed out that this is also visible on the fish counter at the store, or it may be visible, and yet we would do well to eat more of that domestic fish and fish food above all, and it would also reduce the eutrophication of our waters. One cormorants eat half a kilo of fish a day, and their flock may include as many as 1,000 birds, which means it already makes 500 kilos of fish a day. This amount is enormous, as the cormorants are on the coast from a couple of months to up to five months. In the archipelagos, nature also suffers from the huge amount of feces of birds. Anyone who has sailed in the archipelago or had been on a cruise must have seen the light grey islands, the small islands that have died and the rivers that have been destroyed by the cormorants. It's not normal nature anymore. It can no longer be justified by the fact that this is a normal natural cycle. It's not that anymore. It's abnormal. There's one species that's too much power. It is justified to limit both the number of white cheek geese and the number of cormorants. Both of these species are protected by the EU Birds Directive, but due to disadvantages Finland is able to limit them, and there is no hiding behind the EU in this matter. In Estonia and Sweden, for example, hunting for white cheek geese is allowed from fields to prevent crop damage and they are also allowed to hunt for restricted hunting. The same could be done in Finland, and the most convenient way would be to put both of these species under the hunting law. Every country has the right to make derogations and, regionally, also to grant more eviction permits, and that is a pointless explanation from someone that cannot be done. The crops of the fields, parks, the diverse nature of our archipelagos and fishing waters are not secured by ex-post measures if the destruction has already taken place. Let us hope that both of these are already classified as pests, because their number of species has increased to such an extent that they are limited and, by means of this bill and other initiatives that have been under way, they are promoted. It is also important to keep the archipelago clean from these waste and, on the other hand, to calm the fields to harvest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u198	Thank you. I would like to say that there are now six speeches and 10 minutes left to deal with this matter at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u199	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Salonen, for raising a very important issue. I believe, as do you, that the cormorants are already such a nuisance that something needs to be done. Unfortunately, however, this transfer of game will not solve the problem that comes from the EU and the Birds Directive itself. As every representative in the Chamber can read — and I particularly call on Mr Vestman to read — so there is a wolf and a glutton on the list of game animals. In spite of this, we keep having this wolf conversation, in the north we are having a chat about the wolverines. Unfortunately, the EU is the problem, but, of course, it is not possible to fall down here either, but rather to do something at national level, as has actually been done. It is a great pity that Mr Laiho has now left. He criticised the fact that we also had to move the white-cheek goose into a game, to start hunting for shelter, as has been done in Estonia and Sweden. Well, this is what Finland just did. We have more permits for killing and removing white cheek geese than we have in Sweden and Estonia. In some way I would like to see such proportionality and realism and not populism in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u202	Mr President! I believe that the bill should be supported on several occasions. Sometimes, listening to these debates, one wonders where decisions are taken in this country, when in this Parliament they seem to be unable to take those decisions. This play has been seen quite a number of times before: There is a bill in a referral debate late in the evening. It will be discussed by its signatories. No one disagrees with it, no one really disagrees with it in public, but there is still no progress in this matter. It's an interesting phenomenon, which is why. In these matters of game, the destruction of animals in danger, I believe it is because the Finns themselves have made it too difficult to dismantle protection. The fact that it is unjustifiably difficult to dismantle the protection of certain species in Finland even admits the green in private — of course they will not publicly admit it under any circumstances. I do not believe that this is the fundamental problem of the EU either, but that it is a question of a Finnish administrative subordination, a model of national thinking that we cannot decide these things when someone decides them on our behalf. However, other countries seem to be able to decide for themselves, and even in Finland, Åland is able to decide to shoot cormorants. I still remember when I was on a trip to Åland during the previous season to the Committee on Transport and where meat from legally shot cormorants was offered as a small treat in connection with a meal. It wasn't good, though. It tasted like fish. It brings me to the worrying thought of whether the expression “human beings,what they eat ”better than our hopes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u203	Mr President! I am delighted to welcome the presentation made by my representative, Mr Salonen. Something must be done, even though it often remains, as Mr Mäkelä said, to speak in this Chamber. I personally see this problem as fencing between two different ministries. This is exacerbated by the fact that, in the preparation of legislation, compensation for the damage caused by protected animals has already returned from the consultation. There's a cormorade off this list.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u210	Thank you. — three minutes and three speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u211	Mr President! I warmly welcome this initiative, and here, when I got to know the numbers, the local problem in the region of Rauma was particularly striking — let me give an example. In 2018, under 800 nesting couples were found there, two years later, this year, over 3,600. So this growth is explosive, and here we see where this kind of nature conservation now comes in. There are huge regional problems, and there have been very good speeches here, particularly on behalf of fishermen and entrepreneurs. Without further ado, I would like to say a warm welcome and thank the author of the bill very much. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u212	Mr President! Thank you for the contributions made and for the support for the legislative initiative. Unfortunately, the bill did not collect many signatures, but hopefully the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry could link the bill to a future government proposal. That is what I hope will be resolved in some way. As Mr Kärnä said, this is not the only way and perhaps it would not solve the whole problem — even in the case of many other animals at present, the problem has not been resolved — but something has to be done. I believe that we can say to the government that something really needs to be done about all the speeches as a common will. Together with Mrs Myllykoski, we have given much thought to what these different options are, which could then solve this problem. Mr Myllykoski has rightly pointed out that this would not solve, for example, the problem of compensation for the trader not being paid, and he also pointed out very well that the damage caused by the animals protected by the Government's proposal today is indeed missing, for example, a cormorade. There's something we can do about it, and we have to get it there. Thank you very much for all the contributions that have been made. By putting our common strength and all our knowledge and expertise in the same basket, perhaps we can find solutions to this problem too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u213	Irade the Talman! Jag ska inte förlänga det längre, utan jag constaterar att vi är ganska eniga om problemmet — där vi kanske har lite olika synpunkter på hur det ska lösas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u214	This is the way to suspend the debate and the matter. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u215	We will now resume the debate on item 18, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u216	Mr President! I guess I was the only one who didn't have the floor at the end. Of course, I booked it very late. In short, the cormorants are messing with our archipelago, messing with cottage yards. This can be summed up in the words “lead or plastic hoods”. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u217	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u218	Mr President! Only two referendums have been held in Finland. The first concerned the repeal of the Prohibition Act in 1931, the second was the Act on an advisory referendum on Finland's accession to the European Union in 1994. Today my bill on the organisation of a referendum on Finland's resignation from the European Union is under discussion. It must be made clear from the outset that it is possible to resign. All that is needed is a decision of the Parliament, from which the divorce process begins. Although the Finnish Constitution has been flouted that Finland is a member of the European Union, it does not prevent the holding of a referendum and eventually possible resignation. It is good to note that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in its report in 2010 pointed out: 'The mention of membership of the Union in Article 1 of the Constitution does not affect the procedure that should be followed if Finland decides to withdraw from the European Union'. During the following parliamentary term, the Constitutional Committee confirmed the matter as follows: ‘As the Committee’s previous report highlighted,however,it is by nature that it does not agree with a provision amending the law. “ The possibility of Finland leaving the European Union has therefore been very clearly stated in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr President! Our Constitution allows a referendum only as an advisory vote. I myself am prepared to commit myself to the outcome of the referendum, even if the result of the vote is against my own opinion. In matters of major importance, and in particular those relating to the country's policy, an independent people must be able to express their views directly. Mr President! The main purpose of this debate is not to spark a debate on the benefits and disadvantages of membership of the Union, but to focus on the importance of referendums, i.e. listening to the public opinion in decision-making. The European Union is not what was voted on in the 1990s. At one time, only accession to the Union, not the euro currency, was voted on. The changeover to the euro and the subsequent euro crises with all their supporting packages have been a cold ride for a small Finland, which has always sought to be a model student of the Union in everything. The burning issue is the current recovery package, which is flagrantly contrary to the EU’s own rules — each country had only to bear its own debts. Is it possible to bypass the Treaties more harshly? The greatest threat is that federal development will destroy nation states, and therefore Finns in particular must be allowed to take a stand on the preservation of their independence and their own future. The partial handover of budgetary power to Brussels will lead to a pitfall, which is to say that we will soon be begging without a home. It is intolerable that much of our legislation is already being synchronised in accordance with the Brussels directives. Personally, I believe that the EU and also the euro should be separated as soon as possible, especially among the first and not the last. But it's not what I think that matters. The most important thing is what the Finnish people think. Next Saturday, a fixit demonstration will be held in front of the Parliament House for Finland's exit from the European Union. This is a follow-up to a similar demonstration organised by the citizens in September, which served as a starting point for a process that is intended to lead Finland to resign from the European Union. In the rule of law, such processes are managed by respect for democracy, or by voting. The referendum will put an end to this process. If a majority votes in favour of the EU in the referendum, then let us live by it and start working together to develop the EU and demand more value for our money. Mr President! Power belongs to the people, and in Finland it belongs to the people of Finland. In a changing world, democracy is never ready, so there is always room for development, and this is not new for Finland's decision-makers either. The Ministry of Justice has had plans for the development of democracy 20 years ago, but very little progress has been made. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the time for proof. Are you the developer of democracy or the brakeman? It does not matter what your position on membership of the Union is, but the important question is whether you want to listen to the opinion of the citizens and whether you want to give them the opportunity to express it on such an important issue. Let us put an end to these political pageant competitions, and let us start at a time to put Finland in order and, in particular, to the will of the citizens. In this important area, citizens will be given the opportunity to express their views and to hold a referendum in the context of the 2021 municipal elections. A simple question would be put to the voters: should Finland resign from membership of the European Union? The voter should answer the question either ‘yes’ or ‘no’. Mr President! In 1987, a law on the procedure has been adopted in advisory referendums. Article 2 states that a decision must be taken in time for a referendum to be held at the time of the elections so that it can be taken into account when taking electoral measures. Parliament should therefore act swiftly on this issue now. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u219	Mr President! I believe that this bill is a positive opening-up to the debate. That's why I signed it myself. I wonder if I would like to vote on EU membership myself, and I came to the conclusion that it would be interesting to vote on EU membership when I was not allowed to vote on it in due course. That's when I was 17 in 94. I said that under no circumstances should Finland go to the European Union, because it is going to be independence, but Finland should join NATO as long as Finland still can, when Russia is in a state of temporary weakness, and when I was right, that opinion has not later had to be changed. However, it has to be said that Mr Turtiainen was quite right in his opening speech that the EU is not the EU that was then voted on. It was then a trade union in the most part, and now it is a deepening federal state, a debt union, a union of transfers, and we Finns have not voted on the EU that was then voted on. It is not the EU that is at present. Of course, one might wonder whether such a referendum would then have the desired effect if it were to be held. At least, according to all opinion polls — which of course may be wrong in some way, but hardly the one-off category wrong — the result would be that the EU would not be separated. The Finns think it would be too big a bite to bite at once. At least I myself would not change my opinion of the European Union on that basis, whatever the outcome of the vote. Then there is the fact that if Finland were to resign from the European Union, what would be the result of the process for a small country which has yet to become foolish enough to join the euro? After all, Finland should have been excluded from the euro, but that is not the decision that Finland has taken, and the consequences of its decision we bear. We are in the euro, whether we like it or not. Britain, which is a major nuclear power, was not part of the euro, resigned from the EU and has for years been the most important issue of national politics on the agenda. Would such a process be in the interests of Finland, it is a good question, resigning or defending an interest within the European Union. For example, this so-called 'corona recovery package' and the associated financial framework are all unanimity decisions. It would not have been necessary for Finland to go along with these matters. Finland could have called for a reduction in Brexit's influence on the European Union budget. Finland is involved in these decisions by its own decisions; it would not have been necessary. Let us not blame the EU for what we can do ourselves with national decisions. In any case, I believe that resigning from the EU must be seen as an option. The EU is not the ultimate solution. This has been a consistent line for years, even for the Finns, that we are members now, whether we like it or not, and that is something that will not change in the moment, and during its membership we must defend our interests in the best possible way, consistently, precisely in the national interest ahead, not before any federal project, not in terms of European unity, but in terms of how Finland and the Finns would get the best out of it, perhaps sometime later.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u220	Mr President! Is Finland still independent for the sake of the EU? If the answer were still yes at the moment, but it would be a matter of becoming the wheel of an EU federal state, would it be necessary to ask the Finns if we would like to be on a train at which a very different kind of Finland is waiting for us than many men were willing to give their lives on the front so that future generations could live in a free country? It is said that these questions should not be asked out loud, for the talk of the importance of independence would be to submit to Russia and to defend the welfare state and to keep it in its own hands would be to reject a Western community of values. However, as a small nation, we cannot afford to remain silent about fate or drift as a driftwood, otherwise we will be thrown away by others. We need to make decisions about our future on our own basis and consider how we will have the best welfare state in the world in the future. It is not possible as a state under Moscow or Brussels. Finland is a country where taxes are paid so that we all have safety nets if life starts to roll. There is still much to be done, but if we continue to pay for the lives, waste, corruption and inefficiency of other EU countries, we ourselves will collapse the foundations of our economy. At its worst, this cycle will lead us to even feed the irresponsible way other countries take care of themselves, knowing that someone else will be made to pay for their inaction. Mr President! Even more problematic is the fact that the EU has become insolent ‘to do what to do’ a ‘type club’ where it can mean what it wants, because its own rules are not being complied with and does not give rise to uncertainty. The EU was never to become a debt union where hooligans would get away with it when others would be forced to pay off their fun with debt. But this has happened, as shown by the infamous exemption agreement that Prime Minister Marin was involved in negotiating. On top of everything, we still have to double what we get back. It's not fair anymore, and it hasn't been fair for a while. As evidenced by the independence elections in Catalonia in Spain, the EU-Federal State is not even becoming a rule of law in which democracy and fundamental human rights are safeguarded. We are losing our independence to the EU superstate, which quietly accepts that the elections are allowed to beat voters to death and elected politicians are being imprisoned, as Catalonia pointed out. When European politicians are allowed to build themselves a better potting machine, this will be the result. I want to live in Finland, not in an EU federal state, to which they are trying to take us with a slimming tactic, when there is no courage to ask the people directly about it under the right name. Mr President! The bill before us is about holding a referendum in Finland on Finland's resignation from the European Union. We would now ask the people openly: do we want to continue along this path? Parents of my age were never allowed to decide whether they want to join an EU such as the one we are now in, and our generation, in turn, has not been allowed to vote for any form of membership of the Union. I am also a signatory to the bill, because I believe that sooner or later we will have to choose once and for all whether we will become an EU state, and it will be a cold shower on the back of the neck when reality dawns. It will come to light at the point when it is no longer difficult to let go of a superpower that has become connected in so many ways. We prefer to make this decision earlier and let the people express their views. It's part of democracy. We can not belong to the EU, such as Switzerland, Norway or now divorced Britain. Then we will be able to decide whether to take our debt on behalf of others, whether to allow migrants to march into the country, or to allow us to be deprived of money to be wasted by other countries. If we want to maintain a welfare state based on Western values, which is committed to the rule of law, fixit is the best solution for Finland in the long term. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u221	Mr President! Finland joined the European Union in a referendum which took place in 1994. There was no referendum on the euro currency, which has been damaging to us. When I was a young boy, 15 years old, I worked abroad and followed there when the Finnish metal industry flourished and all kinds of steel structures and stuff were brought into the Soviet Union. It was also exported to other European countries. Unfortunately, now that we are in the single currency, some of our metal industry has moved to countries with lower costs in the same euro area. We are debating a legislative initiative to organise a referendum on Finland's resignation from the European Union, and I thank Mr Turtiais. He puts a little gravel in the wheel of socialism, namely Eurosocialism. I'm surprised no one from the assembly is here. Thankfully, the European Union has brought us problems. It imposes on us the lead directive, it decides on our wolves what to do with them. Finland is no longer an independent state if we are not allowed to decide for ourselves what we hunt wolves here. They want to limit the use of lead and the fall of wolves. Mr President! This recovery fund or recovery package pull is indeed the most recent that this wonderful EU is supposed to push through. I mean, we give them this much money. [ The speaker shows ten fingers] And we'll get this much money back from there. [ The speaker shows five fingers]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u222	Now we have three minutes for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u223	Mr President! The European Union is a dim one that needs to be looked at critically. I would like to thank Mr Turtiai for having now put the cat on the table and brought to the debate such an issue that, when you start talking about it in general, half the people are afraid and half the people are applauding their hands. What was the first thing Finns received from the European Union? The European Union divided this people in two. By a small majority, the Finnish people voted us into the yoke of the European Union. Today, we need to raise the issue of what we benefit from the European Union and what are the disadvantages. During the period when Finland has been a member of the European Union, there has been no critical debate on this issue, i.e. in this Chamber. Experts, economists, various wise people talk about the disadvantages of the European Union to this people, to the economy of this country, to the cultural development of this country, to all of it, but this Chamber has never been allowed to discuss critically, passionately, facts at this time. I think it is very good that Mrs Turtiainen has brought this matter to our attention in a cool way, and I have to say now that, since there are six Members of Parliament sitting in this Chamber with me, this House is not too interested in the future of Finland. I wonder if the representatives of the government parties — thank you to the two of you who are present but others — are not interested in the direction in which this country is being driven. Is it interesting that Finland is being exported to the federal state? The independence of Finland, the last traces of our sovereignty, is being destroyed. People are watching quietly. Say hi to the study. This people now deserve a critical debate on the future of Finland, in which direction this country must be driven. As Mr Turtiainen said in his introductory speech,if the people said ‘yes’, then we will go away and join forces if the people said ‘no’,that would be the will of the people. Not a single Member of Parliament will sit in this Chamber without the opinion of the people. For this reason, I believe that this Chamber should start to move in the direction that this initiative is taking us, that is to say to hold a referendum in the future on Finland's membership of the European Union. I warmly support Ano Turtiainen's initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u224	Thank you. Representative Hopsu — gone. There is one last point. If it stays there, let's keep it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u225	Mr President! I just want to thank you for this debate and for this bill. It is a great thing that Mr Turtiainen has also taken such an initiative and given a voice to the group who are driving this issue and who sees it as important. I saw the crowd there, protesting outside the Parliament House, and they are there, and they too need an arena here too, where this can be discussed in a fanatical manner. I watched the 1931 C.I.P. vote come to an end. More than 70 percent of the people felt that the prohibition law should be abolished, and it went through. I do not know, the EU does not have such a high level of support for the last measurements, but it is very high among the citizens and, of course, it is a great thing. That's what I'm saying — I'm glad that Heikkinen came here — that it would have been great to see other parties taking part in this debate as to what the future looks like. It has also been good in the context of the Brexit debate to see what the EU difference may cost, but it has also been evaluated since various research institutes, what good it has also been for Finland, i.e. it is good to have this kind of fanatical discussion. It also seems that, on the one hand, this Chamber and its presence here show that this is not the time for such a vote, and I personally do not feel that this is the right time at this stage. More of the EU needs to think about what we want to do to defend what we want there. And the most important task of this hall is to defend the voices and interests of the Finns at the end of Brussels.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u226	Now the debate and the debate are adjourned. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u227	We shall now continue to discuss item 19, which was previously suspended in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u228	Mr President! I cannot think of any reason why a referendum should not be held on this important issue. We Members of Parliament, each of us, have been elected here in Parliament to legislate only and only for the benefit of our citizens, our voters. The will of our voters on this important issue will only be achieved through a referendum. It is now up to us as parliamentarians to make a decision on how to organise it. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this debate. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u229	Mr President! I had to go all the way down here to the gym while I was here with the congressman. Mäenpää proved that the people of the United States would not be here to discuss the EU so that I came here to discuss the EU with you now. Firstly, I understand the reasons why this referendum is being hoped for. It is true that the EU has not succeeded in everything. I come from Oulu, from a province where, for example, light-car legislation or lead-hound restrictions show the EU a lack of discretion that is unacceptable among the deep ranks of the people, and in such matters, I believe that the EU has failed when it comes to stepping on the feet of the Finnish authority. It is true that the EU should be small and small in big matters, in many cases, in the national decisions that have already been taken here in Finland, the EU should learn more widely from us and not drive us into the same fashion as the European countries. With these ideas I wanted to take part in this debate. Let me add that in the EU things usually happen quite a bit, sneaking around on good things. Sad things and bad things usually happen at once and overnight, but good things happen by creeping. If, for example, we take data transfer fees, how the EU has limited them when we travel, or earlier when we travel, no longer travel — no longer have to worry about phone bills in exactly the same way, for example. In other words, the EU has achieved some very good profits in the fight against it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u230	Mr President! Earlier in this debate, the city centre representative Jouni Mr Ovaska said that it is all very well that Mr Turtiainen has taken such an initiative, but in the end he came to the conclusion that it is not the right time to hold a referendum. I was just wondering that, as far as the debate on the European Union is concerned, this pattern is being repeated year after year — it can actually be said that from one decade to the next. Before that, when Finland was about to join the euro, it was also seen that there is no need for this to be discussed with its citizens and, finally, to vote slump, but to go straight in. There is no need for a debate, there is no need for a referendum, there is no need to ask the people now. But it makes me ask, When will that moment come? When do we ask? However, a few decades have already been in the EU, and one can say that the EU has become a very different Union from what it was before when it was joined. The only thing that comes to mind is that whenever there is something that is not behind it — i.e. the current position of the centre is clearly known here, for example, that there is a strong position on the EU side, and then there is a bill that would push for a referendum to decide whether or not the people want to be in the EU — so I can imagine that probably the reason is then, in reality, that this is not just the case with the agency, and that is why it is said that now is not the right time because it is never the case. This is the kind of speech I thought I would notice when this Parliament had this dismemberment debate about whether boys should be mutilated or not. It was then stated that, well, now is not the time. Let's talk about another thing. Let's talk about girl mutilation. Now we can't involve the boys in this. Another good example is the thematically this forced Swedish, where usually this same speech begins, that now is not the time. I would also like to see the courage to have a debate on matters where there is disagreement and, at best, to ask the people what their opinion is. Then again, Mr Heikkinen, you spoke about the fact that good things happen by sneaking around in the EU — certainly this is the case, but also bad things happen by sneaking around. It is precisely this federal development in the long run that has taken place by sneaking in, and that is why it may be difficult to intervene in concrete terms. This bill may also have helped to improve the situation in order to see clearly and to allow a big debate to take place and finally vote on it after all this creeping out. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u231	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Heikki because I wondered what the thing is that I have forgotten, but you brought it up, that was the light car law. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u232	Mr President! Here we are discussing a referendum on EU membership, and in this respect I am surprised at this time that, if the news has been read, it may have been noticed that last year, in Eva's research of values and attitudes, the record peak of all time in the Finnish people's attitude towards the EU was positive, i.e. last year the majority of the Finnish people welcomed the European Union. What is the reason that the time is right now, because you would lose that vote? I do not quite understand your strategy and what you are trying to achieve with it, because these research of values and attitudes shows that only one-fifth of the Finnish people, of whom you like to speak, are extremely critical of the European Union. Why now would this date be reasonable? And if we look at the Finnish people we are talking about here, the younger age groups, the younger age groups, are much more positive about the European Union than before. If you look at the answers of people under the age of 25 in these value and attitude studies, young people are exceptionally positive about the European Union, which means that in Finland there are really pro-EU generations growing. I would be happy to hear the answer to that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u233	Mr President! Mr Heikkinen, you have just asked why this referendum should be put to the vote right now in order to withdraw from the EU. Well, I can only answer for myself, but I will do my best to shed light on the point of view why it is important. Now there have been these attitudes and values studies, these have been terribly different in different directions. As a general rule, however, you can say that there has been a clear majority of EU supporters. We have seen this EU propaganda, which has been going on for a while now, year after year. When I use quite a lot of Facebook myself, I can say that the time over several weeks has come up against various updates for the European Union, for the European Parliament and for all the different institutions that have come up against us as sponsorship, where the EU itself has promoted itself. In addition, I have seen the way in which the European Union, for example, is constantly being spoken about in textbook content. It is not in itself a wonderful thing and I am not surprised when, although among young people who read these things but who have not lived the time before the EU, there has never been any comparison, that then we simply go on the basis of what is said in textbooks and what is booed in social media and what is constantly booed by the Yle Kioski and others, for example, from the mainstream media. It can also be said that the media field has, to a large extent, been behind this one of the main devils, even since we joined the European Union. Surely each of us has seen the front page of the Helsingin Sanomat, which says ‘yes’. Thus,the media vote in the EU says that With this that this kind of propaganda has been allowed to go on for years, there is certainly a pretty big impact. But despite that, why now? When it is time to act, then action must be taken. At the moment, this is exactly what we were talking about, and we have this kind of corona resuscitation package, which has not so much to do with the corona but with many other structural issues. When it is being brought through various European parliaments and through it begins to emerge such a debt union, that it should begin to bear the debts of others, then it unequivocally is against the basic idea of the EU that we have had and is blatantly violating our common agreements. This will open the door to a completely new European Union, and there is therefore a particular point here why we should ask the people about this. Then this question can be turned so far as to explain why it is not possible to be on the side of this referendum. If, in a way, the coalition is also a very federalist, pro-European party, then if you feel that you are going to win this vote clearly, why would that be a problem, as Mr Turtiainen said in his own speech, then let us commit ourselves to the outcome, whatever it is? Would this not be a win-win strategy for you if you were to support this initiative by Mr Turtiainen? That is also the way to ask this question. But at the end of the day, politics is about acting in the way it should be, acting on the basis of their values, and now that the EU is in a situation of radical change and violation of the Treaties, then action must be taken. However, there would be time for that referendum and there would be different debates, which would shed light on the benefits of the EU and the disadvantages of the EU, and then the citizens themselves would be allowed to weigh it up. But so much for the answer when you asked, for my part. Then, Mr President, I took the floor earlier to talk about how important it would be to get this European referendum organised. Since then, outside the hall on social media, a representative who has also been here at the Parliament House and has since come to speak, but on a different subject — this representative, who put this tweet, is Mikko Karnä — said in this way: “Now, civil servant Sebastian Tynkyne spoke with a sense of independence and of the sacrifice of our ancestors. The EU should therefore be freed from it. I may be old-fashioned, but this kind of talk from a civilian servant is not very credible. Excuse me.” This is really what Mr. Mikko Kärnä of the city centre writes. I really regret that year after year this debate is continuing, that civil servants are being flogged in this way, that they are being defined in a certain kind of corner in how credible they are to talk about what at any time. From my point of view, such a speech is not appropriate from the representative, and I would like to say to every civil servant that you can take a stand on EU policy and Finland's independence in exactly the same way as a person who has visited the army, and carrying a gun does not mean whether you can take a stand on these matters. An army can also be carried out unarmed, and even then that weapon will not be used. On the other hand, women today also have the opportunity to make the choice of carrying that weapon. A woman is also able to carry out an army, and despite that, if a woman does not make this decision, that does not mean that a woman cannot be patriotic or she could not take a stand on the issue of whether an EU referendum should be held in Finland or any policy theme it would ever be. But I would like these discussions to be conducted directly here in the Chamber and, first of all, we should put an end to this culpability of civil service. We have great people, successful people in this society too, and it doesn't look at it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u234	Mr President! Thank you for your excellent contributions from Mr Tynkyse and Mr Mäenpää. Congressman Heikkinen, I'd like to undo that so that it's not the right time. I appeal to that citizens' initiative, which was linked to this EU recovery package: In a few days, it collected 50,000 votes. It does say quite a lot that there is more than the right time for this. Good conversation, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u235	Mr President! This is where Mr Tynkkynen said that it is now precisely the right time to start a referendum on Finland's EU divorce, because surveys show that the Finnish people are in favour of Finland's membership of the European Union. Well, of course that is the case, but we cannot turn a blind eye to the surrounding society in that we are facing a global health crisis, we are facing a global economic crisis. Would we still like to see a national foreign and security policy crisis, among all this? At least I would not wish it, and that makes sense now to deal with a crisis at a time. As far as this so-called EU recovery aid package is concerned, I have been very critical of it from the outset, and that is in itself a separate matter. I do not agree with you that we should resign from the EU, but I nevertheless believe that the EU's own treaties should be respected, and that is a subject which I will defend. I want Finland to be part of the EU, but we must have the rules that we originally joined the European Union. It cannot be that the EU Treaties, so to speak, in the language of politicians, are being reinterpreted overnight and then reference is made to the principles and interpretations that have previously supported EU action. This is the representative. Mäenpää raised the issue of Italy: Finland should not support such countries as Italy. We also fully agree on that. I believe that Finnish taxpayers' money should not be carried to Italy, but if something has to be taken there, then Finnish tax expertise can be exported there, because it does not seem to be the same in Italy. Above all, the situation in Italy has already been visible, let us say, since 2018, perhaps already before that. Since then we have known that there is a European economic storm developing in Italy, and that is precisely because the EU itself has failed to fulfil its own approach criteria, because there has been no structural reform, there has been permanent structural corruption and structural deficits, and that is precisely what the EU would like to resolve. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u236	I would like to say that we have a few minutes before today's sitting is closed, and there are two speeches here. This will then go further if these speeches go beyond time, so let us go to another day. I now hope that, when I give these speeches, we will now stick to the time limit that we have.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u237	Mr President! Mr Heikkinen spoke earlier about the fact that it would not be advisable to hold such a referendum on EU membership. Well, let us return to the same rhetoric that Mr Ovaska also spoke about, but this time the reason is that the problem is that we now have a corona crisis, but then if we start thinking about the EU itself and how the EU is really acting in the wrong way, it is itself constantly creating new crises. We always have a crisis on which no such solutions can then be made on the pretext of listening to the public's view as to whether we want to be on the road to this federal state by means of scrupulous tactics. This argument would have been the same, for example, during the euro crisis, which we had, which went on for a long time. This same argument could actually have happened at the point where there was this situation in Ukraine and Russia looked like muscles. After all, we would not want to make such a decision when Russia is now muskering in this way. In fact, the arguments could have been used in the same way when it was 2015 and there was an immigration crisis: now is not the time because Europe is in crisis, a major international migration is taking place, Finland is in crisis, more than 30,000 asylum seekers came to Finland, now is not the time. And now there's this corona crisis again. So it's just that I'm sure there's always those, sort of, excuses for why you can't make such big decisions. It is never a good time, but a much worse solution certainly is that, as it were, without clearly deciding to drift into a federal state, we would never have made such a clear decision that we really want to be part of the EU, which is a federal state, as if it were a state type, that the decision-making process would then be organized in a new way. It is the worst solution that we have never made such a clear decision, had a proper debate, asked for the opinion of the people, but we have only got into it. It would rather be done at some point, and now that the EU is changing so strongly in its nature, it would be a very important moment to do so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u238	Thank you. — Now, Mr Turtiainen, I do not limit the speech in any way, but it can only happen later if it is a long speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-25-ps-151.u239	Mr President! To Heikkinen, I would say that it does not matter what we both think about whether we want to belong to the EU or not, but let the people vote, and then, whatever the outcome, together as one front, we will implement and do what the people want. — Thank you. That's all.
