ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 5/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Chairman of the committee, represented by Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u2	Mr President! The aim of the Government's proposal is to take into account changes previously adopted by Parliament in the labour legislation in the field of unemployment security. Temporary changes in labour law made it easier for companies to adapt their activities and workforce in this exceptional situation. This proposal, in turn, improves unemployment security in situations where employment ends temporarily or completely. The proposal is based on a presentation to the Government of the Labour Market Centres on 18 March 1920 on the necessary measures. The changes now being discussed are important for employees and their livelihoods as the timetables for the cooperation procedure and the lay-off notification procedure are shortened. According to the government's proposal, unemployment benefit is paid for the five-day period of the unemployment benefit. In addition, it is proposed to reduce the employee's working conditions, which are necessary for receiving unemployment allowance. The proposal also proposes that the unemployment allowance paid on the basis of lay-off is not used up to the maximum period for payment of unemployment allowance. The proposed amendments will apply from 16 March to 6 July 2020. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers the proposed amendments to be necessary and appropriate and supports the adoption of legislative amendments as unchanged. The committee also proposes one statement. The committee's report is unanimous. The proposed amendments concern both laid-off persons and unemployed persons, with the exception of those who are unemployed, Chapter 6, Section 7 of the Unemployment Security Act. ) that unemployment allowance paid during lay-off is not taken into account when calculating the maximum period of unemployment allowance. This provision does not apply to unemployment allowance for persons who have become completely unemployed due to exceptional circumstances. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs issued an opinion in which it drew attention to the fact that, in the light of the rule of equality laid down in Article 6 of the Constitution, it would be justified that Article 7 of Chapter 6 should apply to persons not laid off within the prescribed period. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that, according to a report received by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there were grounds for different treatment of laid-off persons, precisely because of changes in the legislation on lay-off. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also considered the timeliness of regulation to be relevant. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes that the change in the maximum period provided for in the draft law is strictly targeted at the number of laid-off persons that may be affected by temporary amendments to the Employment Contracts Act and does not put the recipients of unemployment benefit in a different position during the corona virus situation. The committee proposes the adoption of Section 7 of Chapter 6 of the Unemployment Protection Act as proposed by the Government. However, the committee stresses the exceptional nature of this situation and notes that equal treatment of the unemployed must be a starting point in normal circumstances. According to the proposal, the State is responsible for the increase in unemployment benefit expenditure resulting from the removal of the days of own resources, so the removal does not increase the benefit expenditure of the Employment Fund and unemployment funds. The removal of ownership days will increase central government expenditure by an estimated EUR 106 million. On the other hand, changes in the maximum duration of unemployment allowance and the reduction of the working conditions will increase the benefit costs of unemployment funds and the Employment Fund. Expenditure under the responsibility of the Employment Fund will also be increased by a significant increase in unemployment due to the corona virus situation. The committee considers it important that: The liquidity of the Employment Fund shall be secured. The committee considers that the proposed changes are necessary to ensure the livelihood of laid-off and unemployed persons in exceptional times. However, the Committee would draw attention to the fact that the proposed changes are putting a strain on the implementation of the contributors to unemployment benefit at a time when the amount of work is already increasing due to the increasing number of applications. In view of the retroactive application of the proposed amendments and the temporary validity of the provisions, the Committee stresses the need for particular attention to be paid to the advice of beneficiaries and the adequacy of advisory services. The Committee considers it necessary to streamline the treatment of benefits and to ensure adequate resources for those implementing unemployment benefits to enable them to be dealt with as quickly as possible. The committee proposes the following statement on the subject: "The Committee requires that the government immediately examines ways of improving the treatment of unemployment benefit benefits and ensures that unemployment benefit funds and benefits from the Social Insurance Institution are implemented in such a way that benefits can be paid without delay."
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u3	Mr President! Thank you to the committee and to the chairman of the committee for giving a good presentation and for taking this matter forward quickly. It is important that, on the one hand, when the company side has facilitated dismissal and lay-off, on the other hand, the employee's side also sees this reduction in the number of days of self-responsibilities and, on the other hand, this condition of working and, on the other hand, the fact that this unemployment allowance would not take up this maximum payment period for unemployment benefit. These are very important improvements from an employee's point of view in this challenging situation. In this context, I am pleased that the committee has also wanted to draw attention, by means of this statement, to the lack of public feedback which perhaps now becomes the most important, namely that all the cashiers are congested at the moment, so it would perhaps be encouraged to increase the number of these benefit handlers. Even though the cashiers are currently trying to recruit more employees, it can be very difficult to dismantle such applications on a normal schedule. I understand that in the General Assembly of the Government, the Chancellor of Justice had also drawn attention to this fact that, in accordance with the Constitution, social security benefits and access to them, in this case to this unemployment benefit, cannot be jeopardised and these deadlines should be maintained. It is therefore important to pay particular attention to this need for resources. My third point is this: I was somewhat surprised that the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs contains a different opinion and is still left by a representative of the Government Party. This may be quite unique in this house. If, even in the context of the wars, there have been unanimous statements from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — and there have been very big differences of opinion in this Chamber as to the substance — then there will be a difference of opinion in this matter from the representative of the government party, but there will be some questions. I do not know whether the chairman of the committee will be able to illustrate in this connection — and I also see the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs here in the Chamber on the spot — what these arguments must be. I know that this has involved issues like this, as the chairman of this committee very well pointed out in his speech, but nevertheless I consider this to be a truly, truly unique and special case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u4	Mr President! This proposal, which was presented comprehensively by the chairman of the committee, Mr Vehviläinen, is part of this larger package, which now responds to the consequences of the economic and employment crisis caused by the corona virus. In this situation, I consider it very reasonable and reasonable that this five-day period should not be respected in so far as it is also covered by unemployment benefit. In fact, I see that this is a question of balance, which is actually what Mr Essayah here, if I have heard and remember correctly, also compares it with the fact that, on the one hand, when we have made certain changes to the law, we have facilitated the procedure of dismissal and so forth, it is perfectly justified that, when these measures are dealt with together, there will also be measures of this kind which are clearly aimed at employees and, on the other hand, I think that the proposal is fully justified in this situation, and it fits in very well with this whole. I would also like to highlight the situation of the Employment Fund, which, in my opinion, was also raised in this committee's report. According to a report received by the committee, this year the Employment Fund will probably have to resort to borrowing in order to cope with these unemployment security expenditures. This is, of course, very important in the sense that now that the number of laid-off persons is there in 350,000 and more than that, this whole system's sustainability is a big and central issue, and I think that, in this Chamber, when we deal with the overall budget after the spending limits debate later this month, there will certainly also be a debate on this issue. But, Mr President, all in all, I would like to support the motion. I would also like to draw attention to this draft statement made by the committee: this is something which I am sure each of us in this Chamber has received a lot of feedback on, and it is quite critical to ensure that the treatment and payment of unemployment benefits can be kept within reasonable time limits, despite the fact that the number of people applying for benefits will now be very exceptional during this spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u5	Mr President! I will return with a brief comment on this matter of implementation: As we know, day by day this group of members of the procedures has grown, and I think there are really 370,000 people, who are a huge number. All in all, we have 25 unemployment funds and then Kela, who will of course take care of payments for labour market support and basic daily allowance, and I can say that when we had this discussion in committee also with the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, they have, of course, already had discussions on this implementation with these unemployment funds, because they know the kind of help they need. Then I would like to say that at this point, when this haste and acute situation is on right now — it is right now and right after Easter in the coming weeks — so neither the system changes nor those that require coding and such a more complex system improvement, but we need quick, impressive actions. When this was the first and last time this government proposal was in the referral debate, I brought up this idea of our former colleague, Mr Manninen, which is also under investigation at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Our former colleague suggested whether employers could calculate unemployment benefit in advance, i.e. that it could not be any rocket science, that the amount of compensation should be calculated in advance, and then, if it were not quite right, they could be evened out. Then we already have the Incomes Register available at the moment, that is, if the employer is, as is supposed to be at present, as a user of the Incomes Register, then it is not a very big job either to calculate directly from the Incomes Register what it is about 60% of the earnings-related total. Indeed, we made this effort precisely because we want a solution to this right away in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. This is something that cannot wait for months.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u6	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 12/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should remain in force or whether it should be partially or totally repealed and whether it will be in force for a fixed or shorter period. — — — — Chairman of the Committee Ojala-Niemelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u7	Mr President! The Constitutional Committee has produced a report on the regulation on the introduction of the powers of Article 87 of the Emergency Act. The committee proposes that the regulation on the introduction of powers should remain in force. The introduction regulation would be valid from 14 April to 13 May 1920. . Article 87 (now to be introduced) concerns, according to its title, other health care guidance. According to the article, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health may, by decision, oblige the pharmaceutical company, the wholesale of medicines, the right to operate a pharmacy and the Community and private trader supplying goods or services used in health care or otherwise operating in the health sector to extend or modify its activities. The article had already been introduced with regard to restrictions on the sale of medicines, goods and services used in health care. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs drew attention to the fact that the powers to be put in place are quite extensive and the explanatory memorandum to the regulation did not provide an adequate picture of the precise content and necessity of the powers. However, on the basis of the additional material provided by the Government to the Constitutional Committee, it was established that there are grounds for regulation which attach to the rights of access to medicines and medical supplies and to Articles 7 and 19 of the Constitution. With regard to proportionality, the committee drew attention to the fact that the adoption regulation would limit the application of powers at this stage until 13 May 2020, for a relatively short period. Moreover, in assessing the proportionality of the regulation, there is no provision for compensation under Article 128 of the Emergency Act. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also stresses that Article 4 of the Act allows the powers of the Emergency Act to be exercised only in such ways as are necessary to achieve the purpose of the law and in proportion to the objective pursued for the exercise of the power to act. These principles limit both the introduction of powers and their use in exceptional circumstances. The principles therefore restrict the powers of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to take decisions under Article 87 of the Emergency Act. Finally, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also stressed the importance of Parliament's rights to information and the need for the committee to have all relevant information properly presented. The committee has repeatedly had to make use of the right to information under Article 47 of the Constitution in order to obtain a report which the committee felt should have made available on its own initiative. The Committee believes that the Government should pay serious attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u8	Mr President! In this connection, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Ojala-Niemela, who, under these circumstances, has been stretched and has been working for a long time — of course, there is another committee involved — but it has been very nice to see how the committee's work has been swift and yet, as it will be, these expert consultations have been carried out — and then, as the representative has pointed out here, when it is partly in the direction of the government that this right of information has not always been fulfilled in all circumstances, so in that sense you can say that you continue with the good work that you have done in that committee. It has also been particularly gratifying to see the few press conferences in which you have clearly been able to describe what has been achieved in committee and what sort of issues may have been taken into account in these committee reports. In this extension of the regulation on the introduction of medicinal products — i.e. that the regulation should remain in force until 13 May — this is precisely about the availability of these medicines and medical supplies, which can be regarded as a key principle here — this proportionality, as highlighted by the chairman of the committee in his presentation, has, of course, been the key element in the assessment of this. In other words, thank you very much for the good work done by the committee and, in these exceptional circumstances, we will continue this period of validity of the regulation on the introduction of exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u9	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u10	Mr President! The Parliament has approved the extension of the powers conferred under the Emergency Act until 13 May 2020. The regulation in question is based on the adoption of a regulation introducing the powers referred to in Articles 86, 88, 93, 94 and 109 of the Emergency Act. This Regulation provides for the application of the powers referred to in Article 88 of the Emergency Act. The regulation extends to 17.3. Whereas the Regulation is valid but has been adopted on the basis of the amendments required by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The regulation contains two powers: firstly, the right of the municipality to waive the time limits for granting an emergency health care guarantee and, secondly, the right of the municipality to waive the time limits for assessing the need for social care services. In the application of this practice, it should be borne in mind that powers can only be exercised if they are necessary to achieve the purpose of the Emergency Act and the situation cannot be controlled by the normal powers of the authorities. The restrictions and powers currently in place under the Act on communicable diseases and the Act on Preparedness are a package aimed at preventing the spread of the disease on the one hand and ensuring that the service system is able to provide adequate social and health services to residents on the other. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has assessed the negative and positive effects of the measures in relation to the benefits to be sought, and the government has concluded that the extension of powers is justified, necessary and necessary in this situation. Mr President! In health care, compliance with the time limits for non-emergency care, i.e. access to treatment in primary health care within three months and special care within six months, can be waived. The requirement is that flexibility in time limits is necessary to provide urgent care and does not jeopardise patient health. In this respect, the wording of the Regulation has been further clarified compared with the previous one. Urgent treatment should always be given. The need for treatment should be assessed in the primary health care system and the referrals should be handled in time to ensure that the patient is aware of the urgency of the treatment. This mandate relates to the safeguarding of health resources. In particular, special care has had to concentrate resources on the treatment and other urgent care of coronavirus patients. For example, according to this morning’s data, 228 patients were hospitalized, 147 of whom were in intensive care and 81. More than half of them were in the HYKS special responsibility area, i.e. 149 patients who were in ward 101 and intensive care 48. Of course, in order to receive this number of patients, it has already been necessary to make proactive changes in order to increase the capacity for intensive care and the resources of patients in need of hospital care, and so, for example, the operating rooms have turned into intensive care units and the staff have been trained in intensive care. Given the need to allocate resources to urgent care, there is, of course, an increase in the number of queues for non-emergency care and it is not always possible to comply with the deadlines for the treatment guarantee. This is, of course, unfortunate from the point of view of Parliament and quite the opposite of what we would normally follow. In exceptional circumstances, this Regulation allows for a derogation from the time limits for treatment, but does not allow the last resort to abandon all unsolicited activities. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has issued guidelines on basic services in emergency situations. It stresses that the aim must be to organise basic services as normally as possible. Effective primary health care aims to prevent the congestion of specialised medical care. Although the regulation allows for flexibility in the time limits for giving treatment, it should only be done at the time when it is absolutely necessary. Mr President! This Regulation will also allow the assessment of the need for services under the Social Welfare Act to be started with the abolition of time limits. In this respect, the Regulation has been amended compared to the previous version on the basis of the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The new wording will better safeguard people's right to adequate social services. The wording is also more in line with the original purpose of the Emergency Act, which was to abandon only the time limits for assessing the need for services and not the full assessment of the need for services. The needs of the customer's social services will be assessed to the extent required by his or her life situation. However, the general condition is that the waiver of the time limit must not jeopardise the person’s necessary livelihood and care. Particular attention should be paid to an adequate assessment of the service needs of older people and customers in need of special support. What, then, does this regulation allow the municipality to give up? I'm sure that's the key question. According to current legislation, the assessment of the need for services must start no later than the seventh working day after the customer contacted. This 7th working day period applies to persons over 75 years of age and to persons receiving the highest level of care allowance under the Disability Benefits Act. The regulation must therefore only waive this seven-day period. The assessment of the need for services must be carried out as soon as possible. Well, then, what can't we give up? Of course, what the municipality must not give up is an assessment of the urgent need for services, and emergency services must in any case be provided. The assessment of the needs of the child in need of special support shall begin in accordance with the rules of normal conditions no later than the seventh working day and shall be completed within three months at the latest. In addition, the assessment of the need for services is laid down in specific legislation, such as the Child Welfare Act and the Disability Services Act, and these assessments of the need for services should be carried out normally. However, even in exceptional circumstances, the waiver of the time limits provided for in the Child Welfare Act cannot be considered necessary or proportionate. These services ensure the necessary care, equality and inclusion of people with disabilities. Thus, the fundamental and human rights of people with disabilities must also be respected in exceptional circumstances. Other persons in need of special protection and their needs for services need to be assessed quickly enough, as they are not always able to seek help themselves when they need it. The purpose of the regulation is to release social welfare resources for urgent tasks. The exceptional situation may also lead to situations where it is necessary to allocate human resources to the assessment of urgent social services. This mandate is therefore necessary. However, the practical application of the Regulation must take account of the need. With these words I would like to say that, even if we have to make heavy decisions under exceptional circumstances, this is necessary in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u11	Mr President! There are certainly grounds for this regulation to extend its powers. And so, as the minister well described, it is a matter of deadlines and compromises in terms of the determination of the timescales of the unconditional care guarantee and also of the need for social services. Now that resources have to be allocated specifically to us at the moment, could you say, to the most vital, that is to say, to bear the resources of special care and intensive care there, it is understandable that this type of regulation will then have to be passed through Parliament? There is, of course, the fact that there is, at the moment, a lot of the so-called pent-up need for treatment that patients themselves also cause. In other words, when they know that there is congestion in the health centres and they know that there is a burden on the health system, so many then fail to apply for health care. And then another thing, which may also arise after this crisis has been triggered as a need for care, is that these rehabilitations by Kela have had to be stopped and transferred to remote rehabilitation where possible. There are also the types of illnesses that will get worse without this rehabilitation, and these people will probably even be on the side of special care at the time when these problems actually get worse, and hopefully the Ministry will be able to identify this side as well. In particular, this rehabilitation has become a lot of contacts with parliamentarians and has been asked how to start dismantling this sum and how to deal with these situations. These questions have also touched on the aspect of mental health rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u12	Mr President! Thus, municipalities have been granted the right to derogate from the time limits for starting the assessment of the urgent care of health care and the need for social care services. This right has now been granted on the basis of the Emergency Act and is to be extended until 13 May. The municipality may therefore waive compliance with the time limits for urgent care if this is necessary for the provision of urgent care. ‘Abandoning time limits for “As before, the need The assessment of the need for socialservices cannot be entirely abandoned, but This is stillthe case:‘The person present in each The right to the necessary care and subsistence and adequate social services must therefore not be jeopardised. This right remains, although flexibility can be found within the time limit for assessing the need for services. In exceptional circumstances, the municipality may therefore postpone the start of an assessment of the service needs of persons over 75 years of age or of those receiving the highest care allowance for more than seven working days. The assessment of the need for services must continue without delay and be completed without undue delay. The assessment of the needs of the child in need of special support shall continue within seven days at the latest. The time-limit for starting an assessment of the need for services does not apply to the time-limits laid down in the Child Welfare Act and the Disability Services Act. The need for services for other people in need of special protection and for older people must always be assessed with sufficient urgency, as they are not always able to seek help themselves when they need it.” I'm sure there's a basis for this. I fully agree, and this has already been tested here in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It is great, Minister, that these clarifications have now been made. But I would pay particular attention to two points: The first is that, in exceptional circumstances, the municipality may postpone the start of an assessment of the service needs of persons over 75 years of age or of those receiving the highest care allowance for more than seven working days. Now that these persons happen to be in quarantine there, this is now a rather unusual combination that they are rightly placed under quarantine conditions and then the evaluation of their service needs is undermined. You mentioned, Minister, that we must not endanger health, but how we assess the need for services — we all know that it is a combination that cannot be implemented. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, when these implementing directives are now being issued, it pays particular attention to these over 70s and, in this case, over 75s, because they are precisely those who are in quarantine that should not be visited by anyone. Well, the second is that compliance with the time limits for urgent care can then, for example, be abandoned in basic health care. This is precisely what Mr Essayah has referred to here: we have a lot of people's diseases, such as diabetes, then we have cardiovascular diseases and cancer diseases, which may get so bad that once this situation is over, they will end up in need of special care. Here too, I might say, is a hidden problem that may then break out at that point and become more expensive, and I would like to see attention now paid to these people’s diseases, which can get worse while waiting. Now, just last weekend, we were able to read the news in the regional papers of the STT that many of those who had been given time without rush had not arrived. There had been a cancer clinic for people with this type of disease and cardiovascular disease. Now, of course, we in the Heart Association, for example, are trying to tell you, of course, that if a doctor gives permission from that hospital, then it is worth going there. But now, of course, we're a little tense and afraid that we can go there. Here is the combination that you might want to pay particular attention to this now. And yes, I would recommend that people dare to go to their own disease to check, for example, if diabetes sufferers have high blood sugar levels. Then, for example, we have these situations that are needed in patients with cardiovascular diseases while some are still eating Marevan — and before that, very much was used for blood thinning. It requires regular blood tests, and now it is clear that home nurses are not going to take them. This is a bad combination. So, in a written question, I have been a little squirming, but here too, during Question Time, I said that I could give you, for example, service vouchers. In a situation where, once and for all, urgent care does not drag all the resources into it as a matter of urgency, a service voucher would be provided so that a person could check out and check himself there on the private side. It would be worth introducing in such exceptional cases. This would be humane, and it would also be economical in the long run if we took account of these target groups. We never know how long this will take. If it takes several months, it will be even more expensive, not to mention what it means from the point of view of suffering.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u13	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a clear presentation. The regulation on urgent care of health care and the assessment of the need for social care services is now being continued. It was a good thing that you raised this point that the assessment of urgent care and its evaluation should not be abandoned, nor should the assessment of those who need special support. Similarly, under the Child Welfare Act, normal measures are taken. It is therefore important that, now that these regulations have been jammed for the first time under exceptional circumstances and now that we are in the second round, we make these adequate clarifications — just as we are learning more and more for the future. It is important that the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also be implemented under exceptional circumstances. At the turn of the week, the young mother told me of her concern about her little baby with a mildly immature hip joint and that treatment had now been postponed for a month, and at the same time we hear that in some places it has been just like driving down this basic health care with a little too much anticipation — it is expected when the corona will crash there. So let’s not treat things that may become more difficult later. I would like to ask the Minister: have municipalities recently been instructed not to drive such a basic rehabilitation service too forward, just as had been done with this small baby?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u14	Mr President! There were three things left when the time ran out. With regard to what Mr Kinnunen has said with merit: when it is said here that the municipality can waive the time limits for urgent care, if this is necessary for the organisation of emergency care, and this regulation was adopted for the first time some time ago, and it is now 13.4. until now in force, is it going to check whether there has been too early an early landing and it has not been hasty — is there such an explanation that it has not happened that a little too early hastily left for that unsolicited treatment to go down? That is only possible if it is necessary to provide urgent care, and now that all our statistics show that the urgent treatment is not yet so strong, I agree with what Mr Kinnunen has already started here, what should be done now. Now, I'm sure we're falling for it as a matter of urgency, but now we should remember that we have the opportunity to go there at regular intervals without having to rush what we feel... And it is quite well known, for example, in the municipalities, and from the Kanta programme, you can see if you have had difficulties in maintaining control and who should be invited. Another tip for you would be to place waiting times for non-urgent treatments on the websites of hospitals or health centres, for example. I am talking, for example, about cancer diseases: there are certainly long-term illnesses that can withstand this corona period so that there is no need to check and do not carry out interim studies, but the cancer may be one that would require constant monitoring, and that is why I would like to see this unsolicited treatment now being introduced, even after the corona, so that we can see on the website what are waiting times and waiting times for our treatment. This is what the National Institute for Health and Welfare has even mentioned in the case of cancer diseases, that it would be good to have this, and people would then see it, because we still have the freedom of choice to change that hospital. And then there's one more thing that has to do with how we're gonna be able to do that unhurried treatment during this time... We really do not know how long this is going to take, so that we will not be able to take down this unhurried one under any circumstances. It is humanly wrong, and then it is a truly national disaster. But now, in different hospitals, for example, we in the hospital district of South Ostrobothnia have already started, the fact that we are already training those in intensive care who are specialised in surgical anesthetics, for example, and who have been in the operating room. Well, now there is also a regulation to invite all under 68-year-olds who are in other fields — ok — pensioners, for example, who could come directly to the non-emergency care but who certainly need that continuing education, and I think that the universities of applied sciences should now begin to discuss quickly how this training is organised. We cannot place that responsibility for education in health care units, but we need those universities of applied sciences and secondary schools to complement its competence in some way. For example, if I am invited there now, I would be happy to go through medical treatment, for example, because certainly many skills have remained, but then there must be training somewhere. In my opinion, we should now go into such a training system with those from outside the house who, for example, come from other sectors through nursing training or local nursing training or those who have recently retired, for example, if special care, emergency care, etc. But for you, Mr Kiuru, a great deal of strength, and do not think that we are on different sides of this table. We are on the same side, and, as I have often said, when I was with that swine flu for more than 24 hours and seven days a week during the swine flu, I know quite well how you feel.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u15	Would the Minister like to speak?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u16	Mr President! Thank you for the good lunches, and I can warmly welcome those words by Mrs Risiko, as well as all the good lunches that have been made here today in connection with this debate and elsewhere. In fact, I think that this debate is also a good illustration of the debate we are having with the field at the moment. In order not to have the impression on the ground that everything is possible, we have to constantly, repeatedly repeat the message on which power of attorney can be exercised in the field. First of all, it must be borne in mind that an urgent assessment of the need for services must always be carried out. There is no flexibility, and urgent services must be organised in any case. Also, the assessment of the needs of the child in need of special support must always be started in accordance with normal regulations and carried out by the seventh working day at the latest, and the evaluation must be completed within that legislative timetable, i.e. within 3 months. In this respect, it is important to stick to the mandate given by Parliament, and of course we are feeding the field with this very aspect of the mandate that Parliament has given to the field from the point of view of social welfare and health care. Mr President! Then the second question is how this emergency care should really be done. It has to be said that flexibility from these deadlines could easily be interpreted by a mandate which Parliament has not specifically given, and I believe that the concerns expressed by Parliament both in this debate and in the previous debate are justified and are in line with the line in which we have approached the field. The fact is, therefore, that we do not have the possibility of flexible deadlines when this would endanger the health of a person, for example, and you have already listed these examples. The fact is that this wording has been further tightened up in order to make it quite clear that this is all right. In other words, flexible deadlines are necessary to provide urgent care, but this must not endanger the health of the patient, and these are the frameworks that must remain. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u17	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. The debate and discussion were held earlier today at the first plenary session. The debate will continue now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u18	Mr President! Indeed, we are dealing here with a regulation on temporary derogations for the application of certain provisions of the annual holiday law, the working time law and the employment contract law. This Regulation applies to persons operating in health services, social services, rescue services, emergency centres and police services. We had a good conversation here during the day. Unfortunately, the minister has not been able to attend. It is important to note here that we are only at the beginning, and the Minister specifically stressed that this is only a precautionary measure, which will only be introduced at the very last minute, and that is understandable. And it is justified to continue with this regulation, I absolutely agree. But then you have to say and you have to remember, because we are only at the beginning, that the fighting fatigue that may come there if it is not prevented can be either physical or mental. With the opportunity to prolong working days, management is of enormous importance. The occupational health and safety organisation must also operate, there must be sufficient protective equipment, it will also provide safety, and occupational health care will hopefully be involved in these organisations, where this will then have to be introduced at some point — and it is quite certain that at some point this regulation and the law will have to be introduced, that these will have to be extended — and I would emphasise the health care and safety at work, but also management. With regard to the previous regulation, I have just said that, at the moment, when we are training those additional people, particularly those in intensive care, such as nurses specialising in surgical anesthetics, we should remember and I would like to hope that, when we also call them — surely they will be called — in the worst case, those outside hospitals and health centres, such as the regulation, are also allowed to do so, exceptions, that training would be arranged in good time, because otherwise there may not always be a good result. In other words, I would like to see such a system of education now verified at an early stage, not only by being on the back of hospitals and health centres, but also by secondary education and universities of applied sciences. For example, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Education and Culture would now very quickly be in favour of making the guidelines that how this will be organised. We have a lot of enthusiastic professionals who are not currently there in health care or who may have retired recently, but who are available to the extent possible and will be happy to take such continuing education — even one week is good. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u19	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to which the Committee on Culture must deliver an opinion. The debate and discussion were held earlier today at the first plenary session. The debate will continue now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u20	Mr President! It is important that teachers, early childhood education providers and schools have very quickly been able to adapt to the new situation and have done some of the digital leaps that could not have been anticipated before. However, it would be important, as many have pointed out in the previous debate, to take account of the need for individual support, and I would like to ask whether there is sufficient distance of individual support education and whether there are any such intentions. This would be fully feasible and easy. All we need to do now is to assess the distance and the kind of support education we could offer to students. The situation is, of course, regrettable for many young people and for many children who do not have access to the kind of support they should have at home. Of course, the assessment of the overall situation is also the most important one. We must also have a picture of it, because these restrictions can be lifted. If they are to be dismantled too early or loosened too early on various grounds, it may be that the overall impact on schoolchildren will be greater than if restrictions are initially imposed and indeed distance schooling and early childhood education, as is now very much the case, certainly not for all schoolchildren and day-care centres. In considering the harm to schoolchildren and children from this, it is indeed important to bear in mind what is expected within a year or six months. Nor is there any point in prolonging this situation with such mediocre restrictions if it is assumed that such practice will actually cause more harm to students in the overall picture. After all, some of the countries that have already announced that they are considering lifting these restrictions are, in general, those countries in which these restrictions have been very strict at first. In addition, it should be noted that we also have different regions in Finland and that the epidemic has spread in different ways, so perhaps we should also consider such regional priorities in relation to schooling. I'm sure we won't be able to get rid of this epidemic just yet. In the case of early childhood education, concerns have been raised as to how staff are exposed to infections. They are very difficult to avoid when it comes to early childhood education in the care and upbringing of young children. It would therefore be very important for the groups to remain small and for the facilities to be used in a limited manner. Even if it might be natural for the operation to combine the groups a little larger, it would now be very important for this infectious disease to be able to operate in their own premises even if there were a very small number of children there. Even if there are just a couple of children there, there is a situation where we should not start saving up at such a point, and perhaps we should not just think about it through the organisation of normal activities. This has been advised by OKM, but it might still be necessary to clarify the guidance when a lot of questions have been asked about this. Then, of course, we must take into account these other teaching providers, and the question that has arisen with regard to both open universities and summer universities is the extent to which they could be supported and the extent to which education could be passed on to the network. Now the income of many education providers and the student base have collapsed when local education cannot be organised, but there is certainly a demand for education. Then compensation for early childhood education fees: many municipalities and cities have now replaced them, and it would also be important to take account of the impact of these incomes and costs now on the plight of municipalities at the moment, whereas otherwise tax revenues have been reduced very quickly. All in all, the necessary restrictions. And in this respect too, there are certainly very unfortunate situations for children, but they must now be minimised at all costs, support the provision of child protection resources and support education at a distance, and we must do everything we can to ensure a safe learning environment for these children, bearing in mind that life-saving measures are being taken here, of course, in the case of infectious disease. There are cases in Europe where, unfortunately, young people have also died of the corona epidemic, and this certainly indicates that children and young people are not always protected from the disease, even though the risks are much lower. How, then, can we return to that normal school life? It is now interesting to follow, for example, these examples in Germany, which seem to have plans in the same format as in Finland: first we try to prevent the epidemic strictly, and then we try to gradually open them up. The use of facial masks is now obvious, at least according to press reports, already included in these plans — we should certainly be making this stock formation — and, of course, there are positive signs in the air for this digital application, but it would also be interesting to see what timetable it is possible to make use of the fact that, as soon as the corona epidemic continues to rush into the vaccine, it would be possible to have a normal life as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u21	Mr President! Indeed, the Minister made his own speech this afternoon, and I must say that the continuation of these restrictive measures is certainly justified, and then by the corrections that have been made, that is to say that those who are subject to extended compulsory education and also those who take part in preparatory education will have the opportunity to take part in this contact teaching, even though we hope that this distance education will be favoured. It was also a good thing that the Minister, in his own speech, pointed out that special attention is now to be paid to these differences in learning and to those in particular need of support. And I think that student care also has its challenges in this situation, because we know that for all children the conditions at home are not necessarily such as to be able to support the child there. On the contrary, it may be that, precisely because of their home conditions, there may be great difficulties when these children return again at some point, again to this contact education and class education. And it has to be said that the wisdom of the spending limits is now in order to give up this categorical extension of compulsory education, because it is an absolutely shocking increase in expenditure in this situation, in which all the drinks should now be used to ensure the school path of children and young people who are currently experiencing the learning gap in order to be able to return to the usual routine — while the education sector itself in particular is calling for this situation not to go into such a major change now, when it should be possible to ensure that we can return to those former situations. The municipalities must be commended for the fact that in the majority of municipalities this school food issue has been managed through various solutions. Of course, this has now become an issue of inequality between municipalities, because it has been managed at very different levels and in different ways. But it must be said that in this matter the municipalities wanted to ensure that school food was also possible for those there in remote education. Then another thing to thank is that in almost all municipalities early childhood education fees have now been left unclaimed from children who do not participate in it, and it really seems right and reasonable in this situation. But, indeed, to the spending limits now but to the fact that it is now important to ensure that children and young people are integrated and that they receive all the support they need and that it is now important to ensure that the return to normal class education and contact education is as good as possible from all the students, and it is not time to embark on such reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u22	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his clear presentation during the day. The temporary restrictions already known under the Act of Preparedness would therefore be extended until 13 May. There are now some additions to basic education and vocational training. From the outset, it should be noted that the amount of teaching can only be reduced to the extent necessary. In order to avoid increasing learning gaps, support for learning and student care should continue to be available to people who are studying at a distance. This limitation does not apply to pupils in pre-school education, basic education, first- and third-year classes, pupils who have been given special support and pupils who are subject to extended compulsory education. This proposal also includes students of preparatory education entitled to contact teaching, which is very welcome. Their teaching focuses primarily on learning Finnish or Swedish. Parents are often unable to support these studies. Prerequisites for remote education are weaker than others, and pupils may otherwise be more vulnerable. Positive special treatment is therefore well-founded and will improve the conditions for future integration in class education. The groups are also smaller and the risk of infection is therefore lower. Teachers, students and families have been in front of a new one in recent weeks when a large proportion of schoolchildren moved to remote education. Just a little earlier, some of the parents had started perhaps the first weeks of teleworking in their lives. And then it was agreed not to see friends in free time. Stress, nervousness, absolutely certain blunderings have arisen from this. Where do you find a corner for everyone at home where you can work in peace at times? What can I do to get a teenager up before lunch? Does the Internet work, and who knows how to use a machine just purchased for a child? There is also fatigue in the race now that knowledge of the continuation of distance has reached families and teachers. I therefore very much hope that, in order to guarantee educational outcomes and the well-being of students, the possibility of lifting restrictions will also be considered as soon as it is possible for health and safety. Here, Mrs Holopainen has already raised the German model, and it is good that we too are going to find out how these digital applications can be monitored and possibly opened up. Similarly, I hope that the municipal financial support package will move forward soon, so that the scarcity of the economic situation does not affect the decisions taken in the education arrangements. In particular, I would like to draw attention to those who finish their comprehensive school, who are about to apply for further studies. Remote studies are not suitable for all people in the same way. Among them is the student who had decided to tighten his grades during the spring so that he could go to high school. Now, learning to sit on a computer and a mobile phone is becoming more difficult, and anxiety makes concentration even more difficult. Primary and upper secondary schools are also socially important situations. Friends change schools. It would be important to be able to meet and tie up bandages that can withstand the weariness of schools. Vocational education also completes studies. It is good that training in the workplace or elsewhere outside the educational institution can be continued if it is possible to do so on behalf of the workplace and the working environment is assessed as safe for the student. I also raise the concern that was already mentioned a little during the day, i.e. sufficient opportunities to provide these evidence so that the qualifications are not caught up in their lack and are seriously delayed. Thank you, too, for the position of the university and universities that the delays in the progress of studies due to changes in education arrangements will be taken into account during the extra period of study rights. Then a few words about meals. Much has been said about the importance of school meals in this Chamber, and thank you very much to the municipalities that have already been able to arrange it for these people at a distance. According to the survey, 56% of municipalities have found a solution, for example, as a distribution of lunch or food packages. And hopefully even those municipalities that were still preparing will find such a workable solution very quickly. Exceptionally, meals supported for university students can now also be sold in the quantities to be purchased. This is an important matter for students. In remote education, the teacher also has a great responsibility to consider what will succeed in every home. You can't get a bill out of the material. This consideration of family diversity and the ability of a child to cope at home are things that are not just a teacher’s headache. The teacher’s systematic interactive contact with students is also part of the student’s well-being support. The municipality should consider how to organise the previously mentioned school meals and student care, but also how to support children and families who are in difficulties under these exceptional circumstances. Under exceptional circumstances for children and young people, every adult can take hold. Many youth activities, hobby activities and organisations have moved to the network to provide support. These are what you need to communicate through the youth channels to help those who need help. Ultimately, we decision-makers have a responsibility to monitor how long education can be carried out at a distance, how well the objectives of the curriculum are achieved, how families, teachers and students are doing in the situation. On the basis of the situation of infectious disease in the country and the previous analysis, decisions must then be made on the follow-up. How long can it take to get to the holidays in time and in the autumn to start earlier, is there a need for education for everyone or support education for a part if learning differences increase? In any case, in the autumn, despite the weak economic situation, proper resources will certainly be needed for basic education to close the effects of this spring, while we have to hope that the second wave of the corona will not come or can be accepted in a controlled manner. These solutions for the future should already be considered. Now we all remember in families and schools that these days will be remembered for decades to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u23	Mr President! It is good to continue here after the good speeches made by Mrs Holopainen and Mr Hopsu. Indeed, in March, very exceptional measures were taken to control this corona virus epidemic in Finland. With exceptional circumstances, the schools closed the doors and the children mainly moved to remote education at home, and only a small part continued in close-up education. It was great that this was done so quickly and, of course, thanks to the principals, the teachers, the staff, and special thanks to the parents. Now that these restrictive measures are still being presented, rightly, to be continued, that tournament endurance will certainly be tested there in tens of thousands of homes. However, we have about 600,000 primary schoolchildren, and in tens of thousands of families, in addition to directing distance education, there is serious concern about the family’s financial well-being, intimate or domestic violence and even excessive alcohol consumption. This will also be reflected in the growing need for family support in the near future, as well as in the services of child welfare, foster care and primary and shelters. It is therefore important that, while the government is preparing these restrictive measures and is fully considering their impact and continuation, the government also recognises and prepares itself, in particular, for this increase in the need for child protection and the adequacy of foster care and places of primary and shelter, and in general sees the need for children and young people, prepares for the support and protection of children and young people, even in these difficult exceptional circumstances, and municipalities also need resources and guidance and support. Mr President! In vocational education, alongside distance learning, it is really important that students who are graduating are able to complete their studies and get the screens done this spring, just as students who are finishing their comprehensive school. In vocational education, the importance of these personal training plans and development plans, Hoks, has been emphasised during this distance learning, because if they are well done, they serve as a good guide for students. In both vocational education and training, it is important that these student care services are known to students or known to the student, available and also work remotely. We have nearly 60,000 children and young people from comprehensive school alone under intensified support and there are about 45,000 pupils under special support, according to Statistics Finland's data last autumn. In other words, nearly one fifth of nearly 600,000 comprehensive school pupils are covered either by intensified support or by special support. Mr President! With regard to these restrictions, of course, we are almost going there in mid-May, but it is important that we should also be able to consider when we can dismantle these restrictions. As a whole, it is important for schools to be able to function as normally as they can in this situation in local education before leaving for summer holidays this spring. This could address potential learning difficulties, see children at risk of exclusion, especially in this spring's more serious risks, and children who have had a particularly difficult period of two months. If schools were still open at the end of May, the need and problems of these children and young people would be seen much more clearly, because at the end of March the situation was that child welfare declarations clearly fell after the transition to remote education, but the reality is that those family situations or emergencies or those problems in the families there would not have been reduced, but the situation is that no one sees the need for children and young people, or at least no responsible older adult who can see something about this. In that sense, it is important that the municipalities are now still able to provide support and guidance for their activities, whether it is the need for special support or student care or other, the activities of the school curator. And then to the end of the municipal economy. It is therefore very important that we do not make the same mistakes that were made in the 1990s. Children and young people cannot be made to pay for this corona virus pandemic, and in that sense the municipal economy must now be supported. Hopefully, tomorrow or Wednesday, the government will give the so-called crisis billion to support the finances and operating conditions of the municipalities. The Coalition Party has proposed direct aid to the health care districts of half a billion and half a billion in such a way as to compensate for the tax on real estate and municipal property and corporate taxes, the tax revenue lost. Only if we can provide the municipal economy with that support can we invest in preventive and low-threshold services there, because if the local government economy continues in the discipline that it currently has in most parts of the world, then the municipalities will cut off all that preventive service and all that service which, after all, would be the timely support and which would be necessary. In this sense, support measures are now needed, particularly during this late spring, to break the administrative boundaries and find the way and the way in which it is possible to support and see and help children, young people and families.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u24	Mr President! Thank you very much for what has been said here, to those who have been able to organise this regulation in the municipalities. After all, the fact that we have now moved to distance education for the most part has had a great deal to do with it. The good news is that this digital leap came, but there is also a lot there that you can say a lot of thanks to the teachers, but also to the education leaders and other staff, including the parents of students and students. In the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, we drew attention to the question of whether distance learning is suitable for everyone. When I have done some such research, the estimate is that certainly about 20 percent will not keep up. Therefore, we need to take care of what is done with them. Another critical point was school meals and the functioning of student care as a third. Learning differences and exclusion are at risk of increasing, and that is why such systematic guidance is already needed. We need special teachers, we need school counselors, we need curator services and psychological services and we need that therapeutic guarantee even more now in this acute phase, but the longer this is going to take, then we also need to have such a survival plan for the future. Of course, we have now read quite a lot about the fact that such an economic crisis group has been set up. This is both a health crisis, but also an economic and social crisis, and that is why all these policy areas are intertwined. I understand that economic policy is very important here — everyone understands it — and it was necessary to have a working group, but I would now also set up a more extensive working group to consider what to do here, so to speak, as a follow-up. The need for support education is already obvious, and when we hear experts in that committee tomorrow, we will certainly be paying attention to this, too. Well, now, of course, we need emergency care plans and methods of implementation, but now we need the future programme too, and in that way too, when we have these students who survive well, so that the motivation of those who survive well in school does not fall in the future. There are a lot of things to worry about here. Now, of course, we need to think about what's enough money for. Personally, I too would think that, now that we have thought that compulsory education would be extended and that there would be a free second degree, we must together ask ourselves whether it is not worth putting that free second-degree money in the hands of low-income families. Why should we increase compulsory education if we do not even have basic education at the moment to achieve equality and to keep everyone involved? I think this is an important place for reflection. I myself would set up such a multi-sectoral group of exit, as it is said that this corona, in some way over the bridge, will be overcome, and I would also like to include this parliamentary expertise in it. It would be binding, it would also share responsibility. Thank you also to the President. He has been here all day. Well done. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u25	Mr President! Sounds like a good suggestion that we have a group like this. This work will certainly be carried out and it will continue to be considered how to support students and teachers in this unusual situation, and I am sure that this work will be even better coordinated and continued. On the other hand, I disagree that it would not be worthwhile to continue to pursue ambitious educational objectives. I don't understand why you shouldn't. Firstly, our aim is to increase the level of education of young people, to achieve the 50% target of higher education, and there is no reason at all, neither economic nor human, to give up or relax these objectives. If we want to provide good employment conditions for young people in the future, because we know that the majority of jobs are created in those sectors where higher education is required, it is only natural that we should increase the number of starting places. Especially after such a crisis, there is a need for opportunities for employment and the economy created by education and, of course, the fact that the second stage is also a matter for everyone. The amount of upper secondary school education would certainly also be worth serious consideration and, of course, will be assessed when the goal is that a greater proportion of higher education will also receive it. Finland will not succeed after such a crisis if we do not have ambitious educational goals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-51.u26	Mr President! That the previous speaker has not only got the wrong idea from what I said: I, as a teacher and myself at every Finnish level of education, either as a teacher or as a student, say that it is absolutely essential to keep those goals set by the government that we all have at least the upper secondary education and a degree, and then that half of us also achieve a higher education degree. There is no need to compromise on these. Not much is needed even to obtain source literature — all studies show that early support is the most important thing. I would be investing now, when we are going to have a huge shortage of money, precisely that early support, because we are creating its stone foot to achieve these goals. The information studied is also necessary for us in the future. We need that research, development and innovation programme - in which we in Finland have had the aim of achieving that 4% of GDP. Well, we can now forget about it for a while, but we must make a path to that, too, that we have researched information. For example, in terms of medical research and medical research, we need it right now. Maintain good research, maintain good education and take good care of our good teachers.
