ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 27/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Chairman of the Committee, Mr Salmon, presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u2	Mr President! Here I present the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the Government's proposal for a law on the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases. This is a legal amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, which actually concerns restrictions on the restaurant business in particular. During the Corona virus epidemic, feeding activities have been restricted under the temporary provisions of the Act on communicable diseases in order to prevent the spread of infectious disease. The provisional provisions expire on 31 October 2020. The aim of the proposal is to extend these provisions until February next year. In this context, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs have delivered opinions to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health agrees with the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs that restrictions should be targeted only in those areas and to the extent necessary to prevent the spread of infectious diseases of general concern. The committee also believes that regulation must strike a balance between enabling economic activity and preventing the spread of infectious disease. As a result, the committee and the result of these opinions amend in particular Article 58a, which amends both the structure of the section itself and its content. The new wording of Article 1 lays down the obligations relating to the cleanliness and hygiene of the nutrition movement and the guidance of customers, which must be taken into account during the period of validity of the proposed provisional law in order to prevent the spread of a communicable disease of general concern. This corresponds in substance to Article 58a(4) of the Act in force. The committee proposes that this provision be added as a condition for the granting of a regulation on the spread of communicable diseases of general concern to the population of the region. This provision would impose an obligation for the regulation to be made in respect of the areas in which the disease is spread among the population of the region concerned. The weighing of this condition must therefore be carried out on a regional basis. The committee notes that the definition of the area is not limited in the provision and could include, for example, a province, a hospital district or a municipality for the necessity of a riip tree. The Committee also notes that there is no stable use of a comprehensive definition of nutritional movements for different nutritional movements. The prevention of epidemics and epidemics of communicable diseases of general concern is based on statistical probabilities and on preventive risk management. From the point of view of this risk management, it is important for different nutritionists to manage the formation of contacts between customers. After all, in its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs requires that these various restrictions be imposed on restaurants to be separated from different categories or types of restaurants. The current regulatory model, which does not differentiate restaurants, can be considered justified by its clarity. In the light of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers that it is necessary to amend the regulation in such a way that stricter restrictions are imposed on food-producing establishments where there is a high likelihood of increased human contact with the people involved in the risk of transmission of infectious diseases. Since the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers that the corona virus epidemic is at a time when restrictions are still necessary in Finland, and since the Constitutional Committee called for restrictions to be imposed on various restaurants on the basis of the necessity, provisions must be taken into account in the law, despite the lack of definition of established types of feeding business, that the strictest restrictions should be applied from the point of view of combating the corona virus epidemic to restaurants and feeding activities which involve a high likelihood of contact between customers. For the reasons set out above, the proposed provision differentiates restaurants in relation to the power to adopt regulations in relation to the number of customers by imposing a stricter limit on the number of customers permitted by the law on catering establishments whose main service activity is to provide the public with alcoholic beverages at the seller's premises in a food house within the meaning of the Food Act. According to paragraph 2 of the proposed Article, in these restaurants, the limit on the number of customers would be no more than 50 % of the largest number of customers or persons and in other restaurants the corresponding limit would be no more than 25 %. The committee wishes to state separately in its report that, in the view of the committee, it is not intended to assess the main activity solely on the basis of, for example, a quantitative or financial contribution to the sale, but rather to weigh primarily on the basis of the nature of the nutritious business. Thus, for example, the proportion of alcoholic beverages in turnover would not be decisive for the application of the provision, but, in relation to the functionality of the restaurant, it would be essential whether the customers would meet in the catering business in question mainly for meals in their own table parties, or whether the catering business on its operating basis is such that their main catering business is the sale of alcoholic beverages. We also have restaurants that may practice during the day, you can say, lunch restaurant activities and then at night time become restaurants of a different nature, and this is also taken into account in this committee's report. Mr President! The committee's report also proposes a new paragraph 7 which provides for no restrictions on the opening hours of paragraph 3. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has also drawn attention to the difficulties in the application of regulation for catering services for ships leaving the port at night. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore considers it justified that these restaurants should be separated from other restaurants, as indicated in the section, because their activities differ substantially from other restaurants at night and during the opening hours. From the point of view of combating the epidemic, the restrictions on the opening hours of these restaurants cannot be considered to be of equivalent importance to those of other night-time and night-time feeding establishments. Customers are mainly in the catering business operating in connection with service stations for a very short period of time in connection with travel and transport activities on the road. Mr President! Here are mainly the key changes that have been made in committee in connection with the government's proposal. I would like to say specifically that this report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health was unanimous, which is also valuable in the sense that, exceptionally, when it comes to imposing restrictions on economic activity and freedom of trade, it is good that we were able to establish in committee a common vision of what restrictions are reasonable and, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also calls for, necessary in each epidemic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u3	Mr President! It seems likely that we will have to live at least a long time next year with a corona pandemic. In addition to health problems, prolonged epidemics pose economic and social challenges and increase the ability of each individual to cope. Prolonged corona pandemic also poses unprecedented challenges to legislation, law drafting and laws to the executive. It is a challenge to find ways of providing for the necessary restrictive measures to take account of fundamental rights and freedoms, to avoid the need to resort to the Emergency Act and to minimise economic and social problems. It is also challenging to reconcile the need to clarify restrictions and communication with regional differentiation of restrictive measures in the light of the local epidemic situation. This task will not be facilitated by the need to act swiftly in a rapidly changing epidemic situation. Mr President! We know that in situations where people come together closely in the same condition, the disease can spread. The disease has spread in Finland and around the world in bars and nightclubs that focus on alcohol sales. The need to impose restrictions on restaurant activities is therefore obvious. However, we know that there are very different types of restaurants, so the risks involved are also very different. We also know that restaurants are important employers and services that are important to people. The epidemic situation in different parts of the country also varies considerably. In the wake of these needs and expectations, the Committee on Social Affairs drew up its report on the continuation of the restrictions on the corona in restaurants. Last Thursday, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs called for a substantial change in the government's proposal so that the law can be laid down in the normal order of regulation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs required that restrictive measures be decided in principle on a regional basis. The PeV required basic provisions on the territorial necessity of the restrictions and the conditions under which the catering companies would have to reduce the opening and delivery time and the number of customers. In addition, PeV required that restrictive measures be laid down for different types of catering establishments, in particular in such a way that restrictions are necessary in order to prevent the spread of communicable diseases of general concern. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health adopted the amendments required by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in relation to regionalism and the separation of restaurants, and in order to take account of the necessity, proportionality and punctuality required of fundamental rights restrictions. The report requires that the nutritionist should ensure sufficient flexibilities and hygiene. If it is necessary to prevent the spread of infectious disease, a Government decree may provide for more specific restrictions on the area concerned in relation to the number of customers and the opening hours of the nutrition movement. The number of restaurants whose main food service activity is to provide alcoholic beverages may be limited by the regulation to a maximum of 50 %. The number of customers of other catering establishments shall not be limited by more than 25 %. The Regulation may also limit the night-time opening hours and drinks. The restrictions laid down by the Government Decree on customer places and opening hours and time limits must be necessary to prevent the spread of a general-risk communicable disease in each region and in the nutritional establishments affected by the restrictions. Furthermore, the report provides for a so-called gas station exemption, i.e. restrictions on opening hours do not apply to gas station canteens or port restaurants. Mr President! The distinction between different restaurants has been a challenging task because the existing legislation does not otherwise distinguish between different restaurants. It is impossible to make an open definition, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also insisted on the separation of the various actors on a risk-based basis, something that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has tried to do and describe in its report. Unfortunately, there will still be interpretation problems in the implementation of the law. The unanimous solution that has emerged from a political and business point of view is a good and important one. I would like to thank all those involved in the drafting and decision-making of the law. Following the adoption of the law, the eyes will turn to the Government regulations for which this law creates the framework and, of course, to the practical application of the law and regulations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The committee's report 27/2020 is on the table, i.e. the government's proposal for a law on the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases. This is a matter of restricting the activities of the restaurants in accordance with the provisional provisions of the Act on communicable diseases and the decrees of the Government adopted on the basis of them. Madam President! I would like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, both the chairman and also the Members, for the good handling of the matter and of this bill and for the fact that we were able to reach a unanimous report. In particular, I would like to thank the opposition, the representatives of the People's Party and their positions for being carefully consulted and for getting our ideas through this report. After all, this report is based on the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which called for and suggested that these restrictions should be necessary and proportionate, in plain language, where there is no infection, for example, for weeks, there is no justification for keeping restaurants closed simply for certainty. In addition, the Constitutional Committee took a position on how much freedom of business can be restricted. Madam President! This bill imposes various restrictions on restaurants based on the main purpose of the nutrition movement. Strict restrictions are imposed on restaurants whose primary purpose is the supply of alcoholic beverages, which include nightclubs, liquor bars and pubs. These can also limit the number of customers by 50%, i.e. half of the maximum. Well, then, the number of customers in restaurants, cafés and lunch restaurants can be limited by up to 25% of the total. According to the law, these restrictions are in principle in force in the areas where they are necessary. So now we look at the overall situation in Finland: where there are infections, there are restrictions — where there are no infections, there is no need to limit them. Madam President! The Finns of Peru are very pleased that gas stations are not subject to any restrictions on opening hours. As early as last spring, when we were discussing the Act on Contagion Disease, the Finns of Finland made a statement hoping that the government would take measures to allow for the 24-hour opening hours of the resorts used by heavy traffic. Now, with this bill, this is happening, i.e. heavy traffic users, site traffic at night, taxi drivers and rescue services are able to take a break and use service stations. I just got a message today from a truck driver, and he asked me: ‘Where are our freighters at night,because all the places are closed? “ Indeed, we do not even know how diverse the service stations offer to freighters, among other things. There are washrooms, showers, and stop-stations where they are able to take a shower during their shift, for example. This is a very important issue, and we must be very grateful for this. Madam President! However, we cannot close our eyes in this case of the coronavirus epidemic. However, we are at a time when infections are increasing, and we must all commit ourselves to acting cautiously, acting carefully: we remember facial masks, remember hand hygiene and remember the safety gap. These are the instructions we give every Finnish citizen from this Parliament. The spread and prevention of the corona virus epidemic are in our own hands, i.e. following those instructions and ensuring that safe future and good tomorrow for all of us. Now, with these restrictions and these measures, as outlined by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health today, we are also giving businesses and businesses the opportunity to operate and keep workers there in their workplaces and, at the same time, heavy-duty operators to keep their breaks safe between shifts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u5	Madam President! In Finland, corona infections have started to grow again since the summer’s suspense period. There have been temporary provisions in the Act on Disease Control which have allowed for restrictions on the activities of restaurants. These provisional provisions expire on 31 October. In its opinion in May, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered it problematic that the explanatory statement of the government's proposal did not give a detailed account of the necessity and proportionality of each of the proposed measures. Now, in its recent opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that the lack of regional differentiation of restrictions is problematic, particularly in relation to the proportionality of fundamental rights restrictions, and in the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs it is difficult to justify in a legally sustainable way why it was necessary to impose similar restrictions on restaurant activities in areas of high and widespread infectious disease and in areas where there is no epidemic in practice. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs gave a firm framework to how the draft law should be amended in order to take account of the constitutional aspects and, in particular, the freedom to conduct a business and, in this context, the protection of property. There is, of course, concern about the health of people behind the restrictions targeted at the nutritional sector. The situation of communicable diseases must be taken into account in all situations, and restrictions must be tightened or eased in accordance with the epidemic situation and in the light of regional considerations. The committee had a very constructive and good debate on the options for solutions, in which way the fixed-term amendment to the Act on communicable diseases which has now been discussed could be made in such a way that it also meets the constitutional criteria and was done in a very constructive way. First of all, there was a desire to focus on the number of customers and to classify them in terms of regionality and also in terms of different types of feeding establishments. Any restriction would be based on the fact that it must be necessary to prevent the spread of a communicable disease of general concern. It was also possible to define more specific provisions for the regions by means of a regulation. In its opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also considered it important that the restriction regulation should be precise and targeted at activities which have been identified as most effective in preventing the spread of the virus. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also raised the issue of food service activities serving the 24-hour activities of society and its consideration in the legislative proposal. In its report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health states that the present government proposal concerns only the regulation of restrictions on the temporary movements of food for infectious diseases and therefore its content is narrowly limited to those provisions. The Committee considers it essential that regional government authorities and communicable diseases authorities have sufficient resources at their disposal to control communicable diseases of general concern and to carry out other official tasks. The Committee also stresses the open sharing of regional and national information on the communicable disease situation and traceability data. In its report, the committee also states that the definition of the area is not limited in this provision and that the regions can be defined as a province, a hospital district or a municipality, depending on the weight of the necessity. From the point of view of risk management, it is also relevant for different feeding shops how to manage the formation of contacts between customers when considering different types of restaurants and associated risks. For example, risk situations include where the formation of social contact and physical intimacy between people takes place, such as dancing or singing, which may be relevant to the likelihood of transmission of infectious disease. The committee decided to classify the activities of restaurants in relation to which their main food service activity relates — whether it is food or alcohol — and to determine the number of customers’ seats to be limited to 50% or 25%. It was also noted that the restaurant can be used for lunch during the day in another type of activity than in the evening. It is therefore important to consider the different types of restaurants also within the area. With regard to opening hours and drinks, it was important for us in the assembly that there should be a more precise definition of the way in which these opening hours limit restaurants. The committee's report also noted that this is the maximum limit and can be reduced and must always be a necessity criterion, so that this does not automatically mean the time limit, but is always regarded as a necessity. Similarly, it was important to take into account that Finnish vessels are not placed at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis ships flying the flag of other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u6	Mr President! The restrictions on nutrition movements are regional in this proposal because the epidemic varies from region to region. However, in assessing the restrictions, it is good to take account of the epidemic situation in the whole country, especially in neighbouring regions, so that the epidemic does not spread from one region to another. Furthermore, these restrictions must be necessary, in accordance with the requirements of the Constitutional Committee, to prevent the spread of the epidemic. Opening hours may be regulated in such a way that the closing time of the evening in no area, even if the epidemic is strong, may be limited earlier than 11 p.m. and less than 22 p.m. A later opening and drinking time will be involved when the epidemic is less severe or completely subsided. These restrictions on opening hours do not apply to service station restaurants or to the issue of water and aircraft in international traffic. Similarly, the limit on the number of customer seats may not exceed 50 % in restaurants primarily based on alcohol sales in areas where the situation of an epidemic is thus necessarily a necessity. In other restaurants, the maximum limit for customer seats may not exceed 25%. From the point of view of the prevention of the corona virus epidemic, the most stringent restrictions are thus imposed on feeding movements and feeding activities that present a high likelihood of contact between customers. It is worth noting that this government proposal concerns only the regulation of temporary restrictions on the movement of food for infectious diseases. A broader reform of the Act on communicable diseases is currently under preparation in relation to the amendments to the Act on communicable diseases that emerged in the fight against the corona epidemic. In this broader preparation of the amendments to the Act on communicable diseases, careful consideration must be given to the relationship between the proposed temporary regulation and other amendments to the Act on communicable diseases, in particular with regard to possible restrictions on assembly or related powers and possible restrictions on other business activities. Mr President! This report was the real result of teamwork from the entire committee team. Although the mandate of the Constitutional Committee was challenging, it is very important that a unanimous decision was reached in committee. This proposal will both enable the fight against the corona epidemic in the future and take reasonable account of the potential of the restaurant industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u7	Madam President! If we go back a little bit in time and think about the last spring when the epidemic landed in Finland, the Parliament had to make big decisions in order to safeguard the health of Finns. At that point, restaurant activities were severely restricted, resulting in a halt to the epidemic in Finland, but financial distress followed many restaurant entrepreneurs. As early as last spring, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs pointed out that restrictions should only apply to those areas where the epidemic is spreading, which is necessary and necessary on the basis of epidemiological criteria. However, this did not happen. Instead, we now have in our hands a new proposal — this is a continuation of the previous restrictive measures — and here the committee has really listened very carefully, read the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the demand that the restrictions should be precise and proportionate and only apply to those areas where this is necessary. This will strike a balance between these health-related restrictions and financial damage, i.e. trying to target them only where they are necessary, so that restaurant entrepreneurs do not go bankrupt in the whole of Finland for nothing. Now has started to come to some social media and emails like this, that skip all the corona restrictions, there is no corona, this is all nonsense and this way away. But even the public must understand that a politician cannot do this because we also have a responsibility. We must follow what is happening in the world, what is happening in other countries, because Finland is not a lonely island and what is happening elsewhere can very well happen here in Finland. That is why we must be awake here, we must safeguard the health and safety of Finns as well as the freedom to engage in business. Even in this proposal, which we now have, it is possible, by means of a Government decree, to limit the freedom of industry, and it is precisely the club owners, bars and pubs that will certainly suffer most here. But now we also know that the situations in which this is taking place are, for the most part, located there in the morning in the drunken hours of alcohol, and that is why I consider these restrictions to be justified. True Finns, however, believe that the financial losses they cause must then be reimbursed to restaurant entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u8	Madam President! During the Corona virus epidemic, feeding activities have been restricted under the temporary provisions of the Act on communicable diseases for the reasons necessary to prevent the spread of the infectious disease. Restrictions on the pursuit of a business are never a pleasant or desirable measure, and the committee has sought to ensure that the business is carried out in its work and, at the same time, to prevent the spread of the epidemic, taking account of the disease situation, to the extent possible. The committee's report is unanimous, and I would like to thank all the members of the committee for the genuine desire for cooperation to find the entity that would serve people's health and economic activity best. Unfortunately, the corona virus epidemic in Finland is at a time when restrictions on restaurant activities are still necessary. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has called for restrictions to be imposed on various food-processing movements on the basis of necessity. As a result, from the point of view of combating the corona virus epidemic, the most stringent restrictions are imposed on feeding movements with a high likelihood of customer-to-customer contact. In addition, in its report, the committee draws attention to the fact that restrictive measures are only targeted where they are necessary in the light of the regional situation. In the view of the committee, the strictest restriction would therefore mainly cover nightclubs, liquor shops and pubs. A group of restaurants within a smaller restriction would include restaurants, cafés and lunch canteens, for example. In order to combat the epidemic, catering establishments operating in the context of the care centres do not compare with food establishments that are at higher risk, so that they can continue to offer breaks and feeding places, including for road workers. A stricter limit on the number of customers permitted by the law is applied to restaurants whose main purpose is to offer alcoholic beverages to the public. In these restaurants, the limit on the number of customers would be no more than 50 % of the largest number of customers or persons, and in other restaurants the corresponding limit would be no more than 25 %. It is important that, when considering the need for restrictive measures, attention should be paid primarily to the nature of the catering activity, for example, whether the restaurant's activities involve a gathering of customers mainly by table parties or whether the restaurant is more of a kind of place where people stand close to each other. Increased physical proximity may be a very important factor in the risk of spreading the disease, and attention should therefore be paid to this. It is very important for the nutritious operator to ensure that the customer’s stay takes place in a sufficiently broad manner and that the customer places are sufficiently distant from each other. It must be safe to do business with people. In order to prevent the spread of a communicable disease of general concern, the nutrition movement must also ensure that the cleaning of the premises and surfaces of the food business, hygiene instructions, location of customer places and similar measures are sufficient and, above all, ensure adequate protection of the customer's living environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u9	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here on this bill and on the report we have produced today. I try not to repeat things that have actually been said quite a number of times here, and find some other aspect of this. And so, to begin with, I would like to quote Paragraph 58 of the Act on communicable diseases. So we are now adjusting Article 58a But what does Article 58 of the Act on Disease Control say? It says this: ‘A generally dangerous or generally dangerous disease which is a risk to a broader infection is expected to occur,the body responsible for the prevention of disease may decide in its area of activity This has therefore been in force since 2016 — a very powerful article that describes how powerful this Act on infectious diseases is. That continues so that the Regional State Administrative Agency can take similar decisions in its territory so that they apply to more municipalities at the same time. There is no mention of restaurant activities, and that is why we have needed Section 58a, which then precisely regulates this similar situation, i.e. the closeness of people and other things, within the food industry. I am very pleased, like the other speakers here, that we have produced a unanimous report in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. But, of course, it is something that we cannot be satisfied with. So no one can be satisfied that we have to limit ourselves, but now only everyone understands that the situation in this epidemic is also in Finland, and especially internationally, as you have seen in the news that there are total closures in many countries, as we had between 4 April and 31 May. nutrition stores completely closed. We are currently hearing this on the news from Paris, Belgium and so on. It is very difficult to assess what is the right and best approach in such a situation. I myself represent the view that we did not do wrong when, from the beginning of June, we regulated this issue in the opposite direction to what we are now regulating. I went through THL’s statement on 22 May — signed by Director-General Markku Tervahauta and Director Mika Salminen — just in my own seat, which stated and gave a very strong support to the idea that the correct march order is precisely that we should impose a general rule on the whole country, from which we can then depart regionally. At that time, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also drew attention to this, and now that it has repeatedly drawn attention, we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have been prepared to turn it the other way round. It is a question of how we assess this epidemic. Let me give you a concrete example: A month ago there were not ten new cases of infectious disease per 100,000 inhabitants in Vaasa in two weeks. Until a week ago, Satakunta was surrounded by so - called red areas. At the moment, the situation is different. When this first version of the report was discussed last week, its introduction to Åland described a situation where there are no infections. Now it's in a state of acceleration. Things are changing very quickly. So I would like to say here that the StV, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and the Parliament, on its presentation, did not do anything wrong when they regulated this issue in another way at the end of May, in other words, in another marching order. But now we are doing as the Constitutional Committee wishes. I think that is right, and I fully support this approach. This will be a very difficult practical application, as has already been mentioned here in the speeches. It is not to be envied that officials who have to answer questions when a trader comes to ask whether this food business of mine is not now something that is a little more of a type than the food business that mainly comes from the sale of alcohol. This is where very significant border crossings will take place at the municipal level, and we are of course aware of this, but just as other members of the committee in particular have already explained, we will have to weigh and consider these different options very carefully. I am very pleased with this proposal. What is most important now, of course, is that we can now also contribute to the end of this epidemic. The figures of the last few days — and particularly the moving averages of the two weeks — show some optimism. We do not know whether it is temporary, but it seems that during the last three to four days the number of daily infections — and therefore also the two-week moving averages — has not been constantly higher but has stopped. There will be new cases, but not more and more. This is very important if these additional measures will help to calm this situation down.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u10	Mr President! Today, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we finalised a report on the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases. The aim is to prevent the spread of the corona virus, which has recently infected a number of people, particularly in bars and nightclubs. The original proposal dealt with all bars and cafes and restaurants in the same way, but now there are fewer restrictions on food restaurants and cafes, for example. According to today's report, for example, customers can be restricted by up to 25% of normal instead of the original 50%. The possibility of setting regulations will certainly prevent the spread of the disease, especially in bars and nightclubs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u11	Madam President! The committee has worked on health ahead of the economy, without forgetting the economy, and I would like to thank the members of the committee, above all the opposition, for the fact that this report is unanimous. I would like to point out some of the points that have been raised by the members of the committee, namely that it is precisely this that limits where the crisis is emerging but does not address where there are no problems of any kind. And this is certainly now — or at least I hope it is — a satisfactory outcome for business and food service operators. And, as Mr Lindén said, restriction is not an end in itself. It is quite clear that all we are trying to do here is to ensure that health and that the epidemic does not go on galloping, but also that restaurant activities can continue in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u12	Värderade Talman! Health ahead, but not forgetting the economy —I think Mr Piirainen has an excellent summary. It is great that it is now possible to weigh regionally, whether it be a municipality, a province or a hospital district or another appropriate area.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u13	Irade fru talman! Jag vill också tacka social- och älsovårdsutskottet för ett mycket bra arbete trots den utmanande tidtabellen. Som medlem av grundlagsutskottet har jag deltagit i behandlingen av grundlagsutskottets utlåtande som vi godkande förra veckan och som social- och halsovårdsutskottet hartagit i beaktande och gjort nödvändiga ändringar i lagförslaget. För det första är det viktigt att intedra alla över en och samma kam, det har grundlagsutskottet slagit fast. Då lagförslaget gavs till ricksdage var incidense i ett sjukårdsdistrikt över 130 och på ett you give område noll. Ändå föreslogs begränsningar på området med noll fall. Det är viktigt att områden som inte har några smittfall inte behöver ha samma begränsningar för verksamheten eftersom det då för för för stora ekonsekenser trots att de inte har någon betydande smittofara på området. Grundlagsutskottet har också tydligt sagt att verksamheten inte kan begränsas utan vägande skäl eller motivering för det. För det andra får bensinstationer och den nitrogens kaféer och matställen fortsätta ha öpet på natten. Risken att symtas där är sannolikt dirt liten på natten som på dagen. Det är viktigt att en yrkeschaufför eller en barnfamil som måste köra på natten kan få stanna och rasta också på natten, att få en kopp kaffe och smörgås på samma sätt som på dagen, så klart med likande fysska avstånd och hygienkrav såväl på natten som på dagen. För det tredje undantas fartyg. Det auri är också viktigt, att chaufförer och andra kan få mat ord på fartygen då de är på väg med viktiga exportvaror eller är på väg i nowtotrafik eller resor av give viktig anledning. Vissa fartyg med många lastbilschaufförer avgård sent på kvällen. Det är viktigt att de kan servera chaufförer mat, precis som social- och älsovårdsutskottet nu slår fast. Det auri slog också ekonotskottet fast i sitt viktiga utlåtande. Det höll nämligen på att bli ett olycksfall i arbetet och hade då inte gällt utländskflagade fartyg, såsom estnik- Eller Svenskflagade fartyg, och således bara drabbat de finskflaggade fartygen. Därför var det viktigt att också få detta klargjort, även om det aldrig hann bli ett problemm då regionalförvaltningsverken var mycket på allerten i frågan tillsammans med social- och älsovårdsministeries tjänstämän. Men det är viktigt att nu slå fast saken klart och tydligt. Irade the Talman! För det fjärde: På de orter där man har begränsningar så begränsas kundplatser på discotek och barer med 50 percent. Det föreslog man också skulle gälla matrestauranger, därifrån det knappt finns några kända smittfall. Det hade slagit hårt mot många mindre quarsrestauringer, som det finns gott om i exempelvis Helsingfors. Därför är det viktigt att dessa ställens kundplatser enbart begränsas med maximalt 75 percent. Det är en mycket rimlig och viktig avvägning. För det femte och det siista: Utskottet slår också fast att regeringen måste ta ordentlig henäsyn till Ålands särställning både i denna lag samt om man nu förbereder nya ändringar i smittskyddslagen. Utskottet slår inte fast hur det ska göras, effersom riksdage inte Heller kan göra det utan att trampa in på självstyrelsens lagstiftningsbehörighet. Konkret kunde man ändå lösa saken genom att landskapsregeringen själv fotta beslut om eventuella stänngningar på Åland, vilket skulle följa logiken i smittskyddslagen överlag, där landskapsregeringen, självstyrelsens organ, är förvaltingsmyndighet på Åland, inte ett regionalförvaltningsverk. Lagstiftningen som sådan är helt klart rikets behörighet, men det finns ändå inga Hinder för att landskapsregeringen kan fetta förvaltningsbesluten så länge Åland accepterar att göra det. Det kom tydligt fram i grundlagsutskottets arbete och höranden av de sakkunniga. Det auri bör regeringen nu tillsammans med landskapsregeringen snabbt diskutera. Det har nämligen variants spänt mellan Åland och social- och helsovårdsministeriet de senaste månaderna, då man på Åland upplevt att man inte tagit i beaktande självstyrelsen i tillräckligt hög grad. Att reglera restaurant och folksamlingar är nämligen normalt självstyrelsen på Ålands behärighet. Det är helt onödigt att det finns gnissel mellan självstyrelsen och regeringen i dessa frågor. Effektiviteten i att bekämpa viruses är det centrala, och jag är säker på att det mest effektiva sättet att göra det på Åland är att självstyrelsen och regeringen har en tät dialogue och tillsammans beslutar om åtgärderna ifall det påverkar områden som normalt är Ålands egen lagstiftningsbehörighet. Det är enbart ett juridiskt problemm, inte ett practicekt. De åländska social- och älsovårdsmyndigheterna tar pandemic på dirt stort allvar som regeringen. De facto har Åland vivi definitioner som är annu mer strikta än de som är för landet som hehet, så ur den aspecten finns ingen anledning till oro, om en sådan har funnits. Därför behöver man nu snabbt diskurera de ox sakerna för att också få brt det gnissel som funnits och som finns mellan regeringen och självstyrelsen, så att hela focuss i ställett kan användas för att bekämpa viruses samt haantera de utmaningar som pandemin för med sig. Avslutningsvis, fru talman, är det således viktigt att fortsätta hålla hjärtat varmt, huvaudet kalt och att tätta hederna.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u14	Madam President! A word about this temporary amendment to the Act on communicable diseases. This is valid until the end of February, and let us say that when the whole amendment of the Act on communicable diseases is being introduced into Parliament, it will certainly also assess the mutual synchronisation of these two, that there will be no contradictions. I would like to highlight the importance of this general hygiene practice. It is still important, whether there are restrictions or not, to comply with hygiene regulations, wash hands and surfaces, and that entrepreneurs also take care of the good hygiene standards of their restaurants. And that is what I trust — everyone wants to keep their businesses clean, of course — and also their own responsibility. In this proposal, these restaurants will now be divided into two groups, in accordance with their general activities, and the strictest restriction would include restaurants, which in practice are considered mainly nightclubs and liquor bars or pubs, and then the smaller restrictions would include restaurants, pizzas, hamburger restaurants, cafés or lunch restaurants. However, it must continue to be borne in mind that the regulations on territoriality and necessity apply to these too, that there is no direct closure of any place, but that depends on the epidemic situation. And the number of places will also try to guide these hygiene practices as optimally as possible. This is, of course, a difficult situation for many restaurants, but I hope that these restrictions will bring little flexibility to it, precisely through these regional assessments. And, of course, there is a need for cooperation between the ministry and regional government agencies and across the regions, so that we also make coherent solutions, taking into account their regional needs and the epidemic situation, but in a way that treats entrepreneurs on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u15	Mr President! There has been a very good debate here, and I would like to thank you very much for that. I have been here today as a guest alternate in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to deal with this and I have been there in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs once we have issued a code of conduct on this proposal, and then perhaps I wanted to clarify after Mr Lindén's speech what we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have meant by our statement. After all, we have not really taken a position on whether or not the government should or should not be restricted to the whole of the country, but we have pointed out that there cannot be an option on the basis of a regulation that only alternatives are available for the basic level to be restricted at the same time everywhere. In other words, we have said that we must have an alternative, that regional considerations can be made. So, in a way, I might like to point out from the previous speech that there would not be the impression that, in a way, if the arguments were fulfilled and the necessity was fulfilled, there would be no major constraints. In other words, we hoped that it would be translated into what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs intended in the earlier provisions of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and that was fortunately the case in committee today. Thanks a lot for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u16	Madam President! I have no desire to argue about this. What I meant in my speech was that, at the end of last week, when the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and, in fact, Parliament, when deciding on these matters, had done things wrong in some way, I will read what is being said today in the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on this subject — that is to say, what was the previous situation. This is the case, it is the fourth point in this report: ‘The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the context of its opinion on ‘—this reference to the situation in the last few months —’points out that the area of application of The committee stressed that the non-compliance conditions should be determined on a So this is last spring's opinion, that is, Opinion 14/2020. This report by StV, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, then goes on to say: ‘Restrictions on the conduct of this opinion on nutrition activities were established in the text of the legislation in force, subject to certain exceptions In addition, it was provided that, unless restrictions are necessary to prevent the spread of communicable disease throughout the country, the Government Regulation lays down more specific provisions on the areas where each obligation and restriction applies.’ I just wanted to remind you that neither the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, nor the whole of Parliament, did anything wrong in the previous reading of this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u17	Mr President! Well, now that we're on this line, we have to stick to it when we start. I would therefore like to remind you of what the Constitutional Committee wrote in its own opinion: ‘The legislative proposal can only be dealt with in the ordinary legislative order,wherein the committee’s 58a§ The constitutional observations made on the subject shall be duly taken into account.’
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u18	Madam President! That is precisely how Mr Lindén refers to the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but the problem has been that this regionality has not been taken into account in practice, that is to say, it has not been taken into account by the Council of State in its action. Everyone has been treated the same way, even though we should have taken more account of that territoriality. That, yes, this is where the Government is looking, that measures should have been taken there, and when they did not happen, of course, the Constitutional Committee had to intervene in that matter. Since their saying had not had sufficient effect at the time, it had to be made this way, that is, in order to get this law through, there must be made already in the parliament such claims that the Government also fulfills them in its activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u19	Madam President! Now, of course, the unanimous committee report is at hand, and in that way it is, of course, a pity that this is going to be such a talk — well, of course I was about to start it, but I would like to say it now. At the moment, this week, we have a different practice in different regions, based on the current Article 58a, which is now in force in the country and is then laid down in the spring. We have a stronger policy in six regions at the moment: there the restaurant's customer seats are limited to 50%, the drinking stops at 2200 hours and the restaurant is allowed to be open at 2300 hours. In 14 regions, we have a different policy: we have a 24-hour pass, the restaurant can be open until 01, and 100 % of the seats can be full. Where does it come from that belief that we would follow the same practice in all areas? This is only a question of the fact that, in the spring, we laid down a general rule for the whole country, which, by way of derogation, allowed different regional solutions to be adopted. We are now doing so, just as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has suggested, that we do not provide for a restrictive general rule, but that the restriction provisions are territorial and that we do not have a restrictive general rule throughout the country, which will then be subject to regional anomalies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u20	Mr President! I see, however, that the most important thing now is how these regional restrictions will materialise in practice at the time of the need for them. After all, we have now seen in Kainuu, Mikkeli and now in Vaasa that there has been regional action and restrictions when needed. I also believe that, now that this legislation has been adopted, it is important how it is actually done in the region. It is now the most important thing, and it is precisely the way in which the local authorities and also the municipalities/hospital districts regionally set up their regional/local restrictions in accordance with the current situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u21	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 9/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u22	Mr President! I am therefore the only representative of the Legal Committee here, so I shall briefly outline the main points of this report. The question here is that the interim settlement of Chapter 2 Section 3 of the Bankruptcy Act will now continue until the end of January 2021. After all, this law has been in force, and the idea has been that companies that have suffered from interest payments would not go bankrupt but would be able to overcome this situation. Well, of course we are going to the next wave, and so the situation continues, and this is how this proposal came from the government again now, and this really is just three months ahead. This is not quite a simple matter, because there is also a debt company and their ability to act and then a security issue, which is one of the concerns raised during these hearings. The Committee on Legal Affairs agreed with its report, but at the same time it also states that this cannot be continued after January. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights unanimously also made a statement calling for the government to immediately clarify and assess what other means could be taken to help this issue in the future. With a very urgent timetable and in good cooperation, the committee has now received this bill as well, so that it should not be interrupted, because the last temporary law expires until the end of this month, and it was therefore a matter of urgency that there should be no break-up and then different rules. This is a brief comment on this report, and we are, of course, looking forward to the consequences of this and the solutions the government will come up with in this place. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u23	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. The debate was suspended earlier today at the plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u24	Mr President! One more point I would like to raise in relation to energy taxation. The Government Programme already stated that heat pumps and data centers producing heat will be transferred to the district heating network to tax class II of electricity tax. In the future, electric boilers and resistors must also be added. This would allow, among other things, profitable exports of wind power to thermal storage facilities. In other words, in addition to heat pumps and data centers, electric boilers and resistors will definitely be in tax class II in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-134.u25	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. The debate was suspended earlier today at the plenary session.
