ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u2	Mr President! Today is the expected date for a government proposal to amend the Transport Services Act, the Road Traffic Act and the Vehicle Act. The proposal aims to correct the shortcomings identified in the assessment of the functioning of taxi regulation which entered into force in July 2018. In accordance with the Government Programme, the proposal pays particular attention to the safety of taxi services, the fight against the shadow economy, the transparency of pricing and the availability of taxis. The purpose of the cab regulatory repair kit is to restore the confidence of both customers and taxi operators in taxi operations. The Government's proposal proposes a number of measures to support the fight against the shadow economy. First of all, the law would define the information to be collected by electronic means on all taxi rides for tax supervision purposes. A taximeter or other device or system should be used to collect and store data. Close entrepreneurial training and testing would be mandatory. It is also proposed that the granting of a licence for taxis be subject to a business code, that a copy of the licence for taxis should always be included in the taxi and that a taxi light should always be used. The aim of all these measures is to reduce the risk of the shadow economy in taxi services and to improve the regulatory oversight of taxi services. The Government's proposal also aims to improve the safety of taxi services, which representatives of special groups in particular have experienced since the Act on Transport Services came into force. An attempt would be made to improve safety by specifying the requirements of the taxi driver’s test and by adding to the law the consequences of the fraud found in the test. In this way, the test would better measure the driver's skills and skills. It is important that a provision on the training of drivers working with special categories should also be included in the law. Education would be voluntary, but it would certainly become the norm for public tendering. The aim is to improve the experience of the most needy customers in the safety, reliability and quality of taxi services. The aim of the Government proposal is also to improve transparency in the pricing of taxi services. The regulation on the pricing of taxi services would be specified in such a way that taxi rides should use a certain pricing structure, give an example in advance of the price of the journey and use a tax meter in the definition of the price if the taxi ride price is not fixed. The aim of all these changes is to improve customers' ability to assess and compare the cost of a taxi ride. The assessment of the effectiveness of taxi regulation also drew attention to the availability of taxi services. This is the most challenging point, first of all to get an accurate understanding of availability and then to find ways to improve it. The authorities do not have a sufficiently comprehensive situational picture of where and when there are problems in the provision or availability of taxi services across Finland. For this reason, the Government's proposal proposes that service providers should provide information on the provision and actual demand of the services they provide or provide, with a better regional and time-scale classification. Effective measures must be found here in other legislation. Thus, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Transport and Communications launched, in cooperation with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities and other authorities and stakeholders, work on the development of publicly supported transport as part of the measures of the National Transport System Plan. The aim is to strengthen the availability and regional effectiveness of transport supported or procured by public funds. The Government's proposal also proposes that the transport activities included in the service package of home and tourism service companies should not be subject to a tax licence in the future. These companies are not engaged in actual taxi business and the additional obligations proposed for taxi transport would lead to unnecessary red tape without the benefits of the government proposal. With regard to the limited transport activities of these companies, it is proposed to return to the situation prior to the Act on Transport Services. The aim is also to encourage tourism and home service companies to develop and diversify their service packages in a way that best serves customers. Mr President! Finally, the Government proposal has been prepared in broad and good cooperation with different authorities and stakeholders. The Finnish Transport and Communications Agency, the Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority and the Tax Administration, as well as its unit to combat the shadow economy, have already made an important contribution to the evaluation of the functioning of legislation. Both the report on the functioning of taxi regulation in the early part of the year and the draft government proposal in the summer were issued with almost 100 opinions. The changes and proposals for measures identified in the opinions and in the assessment of the effectiveness of taxi regulation have generally been considered to be in the right direction. The cab repair series does not solve all the problems at once, but the guidelines have been based on four words: safety, reliability, quality and availability. It also guarantees jobs in the sector and the profitability of businesses, including in these times of interest and in the longer term.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u3	In my view, we want to have a debate on this, so I would ask those Members who wish to use the reply to press the V button from their place. — Debatin will be initiated by Mrs Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u4	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for Transport for this presentation. In fact, if I were to say briefly, when there is a need to correct a law, it should also be done, and it is quite right that this government proposal is now before us, as is also the case in the Government Programme. Last season, the regulation of taxi services was reformed and entered into force at the time of the entry into force of 2018 and further needs for improvement have been identified: for example, the grey economy is such a thing, the safety and availability of taxi services and also the transparency of the pricing of taxi services — these are issues that have also come to the fore. And just as the Minister of Transport said, many things are also common to several ministries, in particular:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u5	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for this series of corrections — hopefully number one, that there will be more. After all, during the last period major mistakes were made in the reform of this law, which is not disputed. I am very pleased that the training of drivers is being stepped up, not so much the need to regret studying, but the attitude of drivers must be right. Similarly, this fight against the shadow economy with its electronic control systems is excellent. But what I would like to draw attention to now that this situation has become so bad in some places is that, yes, this monitoring must be more effective. Traficom is hitting on the police and the tax office, but back in the day, taxi inspectors were big and respected operators in that taxi traffic. They were monitoring traffic. They had police authority. Now we really would need such controllers who would even have the opportunity to stop driving or impose administrative sanctions. Because we are now going to get this situation under control and restore confidence
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u6	Mr President! It is good that in the Government Programme this correction series for the reform of the taxi law was put in motion, and it is great to say that the mistakes that have been made during the previous government term are also recognised and recognised in this Chamber. The reform, frankly, went to hell. The level of services weakened, the grey economy flared up, the skills of drivers weakened when the training regulations fell, the fleet of vehicles weakened. The only positive thing, of course, if you look at urban areas, is that the number of taxis went up, but at the same time these other problems came up, and in the countryside it behaved quite the other way around, which is where many drivers and taxi companies had to punch a note at the door. I welcome the fact that we are now looking at these public money players in parallel. And the question mainly to the Minister of Transport is whether it must now be linked to this LJS 12 work,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u7	Madam President! Indeed, we must thank the government for making such a truly important correction. Of course, I want to say so much that it is not necessarily worth the government's efforts to show off, because the architect of this disaster is still in the government. But I think with a stick in the eye that remembers the old ones. Personally, I am at least prepared to do a long day in order to bring this taxi industry back to the level it values and to eradicate what has been wronged by the previous government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u8	Mr President! I thank Minister Harakka for a very good and important proposal. Many of us, both service providers and customers, have encountered the problems brought about by the liberalisation of taxi legislation during the last government term, in terms of safety, quality, pricing, availability and also the challenges of the shadow economy. It is quite clear that these shortcomings require correction, and that is why this reform is being carried out. It is quite clear that this reform of the previous regime will not be fully rectified, but what we can do here is a good starting point for starting to make it as good as possible. However, it is now important that customers can continue to rely on safe taxi rides and safely use those services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u9	Madam President! Indeed, this proposal is now correcting the failings that were overlooked in the huge reform of the last period. The use of taxis has been complicated, I think, for at least two reasons: on the one hand, pricing has been perceived as confusing and difficult, which means that taxis may not even be dared to take place when the price cannot be estimated in advance, and on the other hand, the safety of taxis that have been talked about here too has been a cause of concern. Moreover, the availability of taxis and the informal economy are also the issues that are fortunately now being addressed. Indeed, this reform will respond to these concerns, including making taximeters mandatory on all trips for which the price has not been fixed in advance. It is important that people who need taxis dare to take it, but also from the point of view of entrepreneurs that future customers find this service. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u10	Madam President! I think that the Minister here, when presenting this government proposal, said well these key objectives, including security and reliability. It is obvious, of course, that once this old taxi reform has brought to light the obvious flaws that people have experienced in terms of quality of service and pricing, they are now being addressed by this particular proposal. It is good to remember, however, that there are very many hard-core professionals, entrepreneurs, taxi drivers who have provided the good, high-quality service, and I also share the sadness that these people, who have not complied with these common rules, have also blacked out the whole industry. That is why it is very important that we now deal with:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u11	Madam President! Like others, I welcome with great joy the government's efforts to correct the major mistakes of the reform of the taxi law, which are not justified. I hope the government listens very carefully to taxi drivers and entrepreneurs now. What happens in the taxi business is no surprise. Customer confidence has collapsed, the rides are uncertain, there are unlanguaged, unskilled drivers — most of us have faced these problems. The taxi station next door is often more similar to the Middle East Square than the Finnish capital. This series of corrections addresses many problems but not all of them. There is an urgent need for more control, not just obligations for entrepreneurs. It also seems clear that some quotas are needed. There are honest, good taxi entrepreneurs who constantly fall when people come to the market on a conveyor belt, who are willing to make things cheaper, but who do not necessarily take care of these obligations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u12	Madam President! The government is to be commended for its adherence to its government programme and for going ahead with the correction movement, which is an essential condition, especially in those aspects which were seen as already taking place as a result of the reform. Now is the right time to address them. What would be important, however, is to speed up further preparation so that these public services, i.e. Kela rides, can now be set up so that we do not have to take grandmas from Huittisi to Pori first and then come back empty, so that the Portuguese taxi driver takes her back to Huitt and returns empty again. So now we have to challenge other ministries for this cooperation and take it forward. It is true that the yobarians are eating the bread of an honest taxi driver today, and that is, fortunately, what this is about to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u13	Madam President! The taxi law took a couple of laps too much last season, maybe a couple of drinks too much, and that's why we need this repair kit. Improving the quality of taxi services, transparency of pricing and monitoring of the shadow economy are very worthwhile objectives, and I would like to thank the Minister and the Government for having these key objectives and starting now to look for a solution. Here a few Members have said that it is important, however, that when we create new control mechanisms or create new rules and increase bureaucracy, they are also monitored. Without supervision, even good rules do not necessarily come into practice. It is important that, now that we create new regulations, we have adequate control mechanisms, adequate sanctions, and we also enable honest entrepreneurs who have complied with these current rules to continue to do so, but those who circumvent the rules will no longer be able to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u14	Madam President! This series of corrections is more than necessary because of the few legislative proposals you can say, as with the taxi reform inside last season's traffic cycle: the wolf is already born. Indeed, while we were at the same time dismantling quantitative regulation, on-call duty, price regulation and education obligations, we know that total chaos was brought about in the taxi market. That is what the opposition at the time tried to warn us about, but it was taken under the leadership of the centre, and I know that there, too, the men and women of the provinces were trying to take the message forward that this reform was not good, but it was then broken through. Well, here Mrs Myllykoski has already raised this connection to these Kela rides, although they are not really in the ministry's field, but it has also had a clear impact on that side. Above all, it is important that this study be carried out on the extent to which taxi entrepreneurs in rural areas have put their gloves on so that the company has not moved from generation to generation because of its view of the taxi traffic
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u15	Madam Speaker! Unlike maybe the last one, It could have been deduced from what Mrs Essayah said, and the Centre thinks it is good that these shortcomings and defects in the reform are being corrected. This is very good, and it will make for better taxi traffic: it is the good taxi professionals who are primarily responsible for it that will be supported by this. D.O.B. Mr President! I would also like to take up this point raised by Mrs Myllykoski in relation to the centre. It is very important that these so-called Kela rides, i.e. the transportation of elderly, sick, disabled people to various services, taxi rides paid for by Kela, are made work. Quite a lot of discussion has been generated in the provinces by these Kela competitions. They have been complained about, they have also fallen in market law, new competitions. There is now concern about how they will affect the transport of taxis in rural and rural areas. Perhaps the Minister of Transport could say a little about this how the future of these Kela rides will be and how the Kela
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u16	Madam President! It is quite clear that my speech is a repetition of everything that has been said here. We're very united. First of all, I would like to say that we have good entrepreneurs and we have good drivers, and that has also been said here. But then there are these problems: there are no known addresses, no language, especially the elderly are afraid to use taxis, pricing can be surprising and very rarely in a more affordable direction, there are disputes between cars at different taxi stations — I found Mr Purra’s illustration of Station Square to be excellent. I would like to compare this with the fact that market forces are good many times when they are used in the right way, but they can also be a bottle spirit that gets out of hand, and that is what has happened here. Fortunately, the reform of the social services and health services did not go through with total market reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u17	Madam President! Mr Lindén was already taking the debate to reform social and health services, and he — who was not in Parliament last season — had been left with some misunderstanding that there would be some complete liberalisation of the market last season, but that was not what it was all about. But as far as this taxi reform is concerned, we must admit, as has been said here very unanimously, that the last Parliament made a mistake. We, along with the others, made a mistake: we too freed the taxi industry from regulation. For example, it was not intended to exempt some incorrect taxi drivers from tax payments, even though the reform has contributed to such a situation. It is excellent that this reform proposal has now come and, among other things, this monitoring will be increased and training will be increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u18	Mr President! Thank you, too, for this repair kit. I was here last season, and I must admit that, under the leadership of the misdirect of our group, we were involved in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u21	Mr President! Indeed, the purpose of this cab regulation repair series is to reduce operational uncertainty and restore confidence among both customers and taxi operators. It is indeed a pity that the safety of taxi customers has fallen since this last season's law came into force. In particular, it is sad that the special groups felt most strongly that these safety and quality factors have deteriorated in relation to taxi services, and it was found, among other things, that there have been quite a lot of new drivers and that compulsory training requirements have been abolished. And it is a good thing that now, with this series of corrections, these special groups' needs will also become more visible and contribute to the recovery of the sense of security. However, I would like to ask the Minister how you are now developing this driver's certificate so that it will then take greater account of the needs of these special groups, among others. That if you could get an answer from the minister. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u22	Madam President! As regards the availability of taxis, this legislative reform does not directly affect but seeks to improve the information received by the authorities on the provision of taxi services. The information would at a later stage make it possible to target, where appropriate, areas where taxi services are poorly available. The explanatory statement of the Government's proposal points out that different ministries, in cooperation with the Association of Local Authorities and other authorities and stakeholders, will start work on the development of publicly supported transport as part of the measures of the National Transport System Plan. The aim is to strengthen the availability and regional effectiveness of transport supported or procured by public funds. The results of the EU's Mamba project, which ended in September, were presented in the Webinar for Rural Mobility Solutions, and there was a good response to the reform of the services of the future. Particular attention should be paid to those areas where traditional public transport is not an option.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u23	Madam President! It is very welcome here in Parliament that Minister Haraka's proposal to correct the losses of the taxi law. Last season we worked hard on this taxi law, and there were mistakes of this kind here, and it is good that they are now being corrected and corrected. Finns have earned a safe and reliable taxi ride, and it must be done in accordance with the principles of honest entrepreneurial activity in such a way that the tax bear also gets its share. Now that this development is being made and the legislation is being amended, a couple of points will be made to you who are considering it. I myself took a taxi driver’s degree in accordance with the old regulation before it was made easier, and my conclusion is that if anyone really wants to complete a taxi driver’s examination, the old test is comprehensive enough and also easy enough so that anyone who really wants to get it through can get it through. Furthermore, when you start to think about this bill, the committee should look into the old pre-works.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u24	Madam President! Taxi entrepreneurship is a serious form of business in which an entrepreneur earns a living for himself, his family and his drivers. This should certainly also be reflected in the repair of transport services. The definition of professionalism must be corrected and clarified in committee. It cannot be the case — but the current situation is — that it is freely available to compete with licensed taxi operations by selling transport services on the website and accepting money, just to mention that it does not do so ‘for the purpose of merit’. The Government's proposal also justifies the opposition to the introduction of the international registration plates for taxis by making it difficult to operate part-time and occasional. I ask you, Mr Government: will legislation be made in Finland for entrepreneurs or for part-time amateurs? I believe that the committee must now take account of the fact that, after these corrections, a professional, competent, responsible and duty-paying taxi operator can operate in a fair, fair and effectively controlled taxi market. It is in the interests of our users and taxi companies. — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u25	Mr President! I would also like to thank the government and Minister Harakka for bringing this really needed repair kit to Parliament. At the same time, I would like to bring some concrete practical feedback, could you say, directly from the road to support further processing? Firstly, the proposed entrepreneurial test must be neutral, preferably organised by the authorities, that it does not become a so-called formal business machine. The second point is that in order to constrain the grey economy, the revenue monitoring must also be accompanied by mile monitoring on the indicators. Thirdly: good guidelines are almost already in place, but control is still too fragmented, and more attention should be paid to this in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u26	Mr President! With regard to taxis, the transport policy reform that came into force last season left problems which are now being corrected. The use of a tax meter or equivalent system under the EU Measuring Instruments Directive is of great importance for tax control, so the need for this is a clear improvement to the current situation. In addition, it is an excellent thing that obtaining a licence for taxis would require entrepreneurship training and passing the test, as well as obtaining a professional licence for taxi drivers to complete a course and test that improves the basic skills and customer activities of the sector. We need skilled and skilled taxi drivers and taxi drivers who comply with the laws and pay the taxes and other statutory charges that are due to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u27	Madam President! Thank you, too, for preparing for the minister. It is important to evaluate and correct legislation if necessary, and it is great to have the capacity to do so. I'm sure a lot of people have been waiting for this. It is also important and, above all, the role of law-abiding, hard-working entrepreneurs has been well-emphasised here, but it is also important to bear in mind that the law itself is precisely conducive to fair competition and a functioning market. In this regard, I think it is important that such new business models, new technologies, digital applications and such development, for example, are ensured in the sense that these issues are considered to be sufficiently neutral. But it seems to be a pragmatic and appropriate package. That's great.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u28	Madam President! The taxi industry experienced a revolutionary change overnight, and the full implementation of such major changes will take its time. One year is still nothing, and two years is not enough. But we've got run-ins, and I'm gonna bring up the surveillance from there, too. You have to understand that when something is regulated, it must also be controlled. They go hand in hand. Otherwise, that regulation is a completely blank entry. This applies both to law enforcement and to any other regulation. And I dare say that, even without a series of repairs to the taxi laws, many things and mishaps would work if they were monitored. My question to the Minister is: how could controls be organised? And then the second point: sanctions. If there is control, there must also be sanctions. So I'd say that when we get the controls and the sanctions right, that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u29	Madam President! There is rarely such a consensus in this Chamber that the last government's taxicab law went badly wrong, even if there was a representative. The valley tried discreetly to pin it on this government, too. This repair package of the taxi law does not at all fix all the losses, but there are a few key flaws. I very much welcome the fact that, first of all, pricing will be made clearer and, in particular, that taxis will be equipped with these tax gauges or equivalents. This is particularly important in terms of price transparency and the fight against the shadow economy and the prevention of direct tax evasion. Then I also very much welcome the corrections relating to the training of taxi drivers. This will increase both the safety of passengers and the appreciation of the sector. And a representative. Myllykoski also raised a very important issue about these Kela taxis, and I hope that we will look at this later.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u30	Madam President! The congestion of 100 statements mentioned by the Minister shows that there is a strong need for change. The reform of the last period failed in some places, and the service is not working. I personally look at this from the point of view of a small municipality, and we have a challenge in particular about the availability of taxis. In addition to the laws, it is also a matter of tendering for Kela — that is clear at this point. First of all, I have to say that I am now familiar with a huge number of taxi drivers, including those responsible, who are concerned about the reputation of the sector in this situation. Secondly, the proposal corrects the failings observed in taxi operations, such as safety, eradicates the shadow economy and increases transparency in pricing. These are absolutely good things. There will be a driver's test, a taximeter and a receipt improvement, but with regard to availability issues, this proposal leaves a need for a repair kit for second. The Competition and Consumer Authority has highlighted a number of billboards to improve access. Thank you to the Minister for this series of corrections. What schedule would allow us to have access improvements?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u31	Mr President! As Mr Eloranta said earlier here, the amendments to the Transport Services Act last season, in particular, felt that their safety and the quality of the taxi service had been undermined. The reason for this was identified, among other things, the removal of compulsory training requirements. The training is now improved, and the taxi driver’s test also evaluates the driver’s ability to deal with special groups. I myself would have liked, as many disabled people's organisations would have liked, to see, at least in part, the training of drivers in special groups compulsory for all drivers, because equality involves the fact that a disabled person can rely on the skills of every taxi driver. I would now like to ask the Minister: can anyone with disabilities and memory disorders, for example, in the future be confident that travelling in a taxi is safe and that all drivers have the necessary skills?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u32	Mr President! Really, thank you for the repair kit. There are certainly a number of problems in taxi operations, not all of which are due to the taxi reform that has been carried out — it is also honest to say. But this series of repairs will certainly lead to a better industry and its operation. I'd like to ask you a question about this show, maybe from the point of view of the taxi operator and the man on the street. Representative Meri has already pointed out that this performance ensures that the cab driver’s language skills are guaranteed, that the taxi driver is able to speak clearly in Finnish. The second is how much this reform will add to the bureaucracy of the taxi operator and entrepreneurship. And perhaps thirdly, how to increase the overall attractiveness of the sector. The strong diversity of this sector, especially in the capital region, also suggests that the attraction factors may not be in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u33	Mr President! In fact, the reform of the taxi law gave rise to a great deal of debate in due course, and the problems already raised were realised. It is a good thing that the law is now being corrected quite unanimously. The liberalisation of taxi regulation created a huge amount of uncertainty. It is therefore important that the aim of this proposal is now to restore consumer confidence in the quality of service and to make the pricing of taxi services clear and transparent. Taxi is a necessary means of transport for many carless people, and the threshold for its use must be low and safe for everyone. It is particularly important for older people and special groups who are vulnerable and whose mobility depends on the use of taxis. It is also important that taxi entrepreneurs have a fair operating environment and a competitive environment. That is why it is important that the black economy should now also be tackled carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u34	There will be three more replies and then there will be a minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u35	Madam President! As we know, this repair kit for taxi regulation is indeed an expected and necessary reform, and I am glad that we have such a clear consensus in this Chamber. After the complete deregulation of this regulation, we have a huge pile of problems that ordinary Finns as well as taxi entrepreneurs are now waiting for these solutions, and in particular this decline in access to services in sparsely populated areas, not to mention rural areas, has put Finns in a very unequal position. This rise in prices, a fall in the quality of services and an increase in the shadow economy are also clear, known flaws. Warm thanks to Mr Haraka, Minister of Transport and Communications, and to the government as a whole, for the fact that these shortcomings are now being addressed by this regulation, but as far as these Kela rides are concerned, I also hope that we can prepare quickly and move forward with the necessary measures. They have already been prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in accordance with the Government records,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u36	Mr President! This bill is a good start, but I am raising three problems here, to which I hope that attention will be paid in committee and which the Minister will perhaps also hear here. The first is that, if I have understood correctly, there will be an entrepreneurial training for a taxi driver, but not for a driver, and this training for special groups will be voluntary. Here is the first problem: why not have training, which in practice covers all these things, as has been the case in the past? Then the second is this measure: if it is a meter or something that is not directly passed on to the tax authority, then this monitoring should be quite complete. And then the third thing I would like to draw attention to is these tests: now apparently, so far, they have also been carried out with an interpreter, because, according to the information I have received, there have been drivers who do not speak Finnish, Swedish or English, but is this now leaving the country that the interpreter cannot be used in the future? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u37	Madam President! Yes, this lack of language is one of the worst things that has now arisen, especially in the service of the elderly and other special groups. The second is questions of security and service. I can read Google Maps in the back seat and give directions to taxi drivers, but what about the elderly? At the moment, a driver in many places may sit and watch Grandma try to carry her bags and bring them to the car. This does not apply to everyone, but the service is not available to such an extent and is particularly worrying for the elderly at this point. I have met myself here in Helsinki: when I asked if I could get to the Senate Square, the driver has asked if it is in Helsinki. At this stage, we are beginning to wonder whether education has gone quite right, and I hope that these points will now be addressed and, in particular, this question of language skills. I would like to ask the Minister: is it certain that this performance will now put an end to those taxi wars on that post?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u38	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, for these constructive and good comments and questions. This reflects the spirit of cooperation which, in this very good spirit, has been in preparation for this whole year, together with taxi companies, taxi associations, customer representatives, all stakeholders. If we go to the point where Mr Tolvanen drew attention to control — including Mr Könttä and many others. After all, the supervisory authorities are both the Transport and Communications Agency, the police and the Tax Administration within their respective competences. I understand that it is not so much a lack of legislation as a lack of resources, and Mr Kilpi, of course, for his previous activities and also for his previous activities, Mr Tolvane, know that there are always challenges. However, the authorities have cooperated excellently in the organisation of controls. These private so-called taxi inspectors still exist in private brokerage centres, and their task is of course quality control and customer experience control. This was the last time attention was paid to the bull at the Helsinki railway station, for example. The Minister of Transport and Communications may have to be prepared to take a municipal initiative to ensure that the Helsinki City Statute intervenes. Then there was a lot of talk about these tests and the conditions for action. Of course, the criminal record will be checked. The test is only available in Finnish and Swedish, which means that it is intended to measure language skills. The purpose of entrepreneurship training is then to ensure that all employer obligations and other tax obligations are understood to be handled, not only on the control side, but also on the competence side. Quite a lot of the grey economy is also born of incompetence, and that is something we want to tackle. In fact, we had a few officials doing this test on the taxi driver, and it also helped, as it were, as an expert in experience to see that there is a need to clarify the test. There was not enough regulation in terms of content. In particular, basic knowledge and ability to work with different customer groups will be enhanced. It is also estimated that fraud has increased during this new law on transport services, so it must be addressed and sanctions imposed. And then this special group driver training, it's an extremely important thing. We did not want to make it compulsory because we already have a shortage of drivers in places, plus, of course, everyone knows that the equipment required to carry special groups is expensive anyway, so we will use voluntary training to ensure that the meeting, assistance and communication of people with disabilities are also better suited to the transport of school and day care children. And here, to some extent, we are responsible for this competition from the municipalities, which can then be required for the transport of these special groups. Above all, like Mrs Myllykoski, it is of course appropriate to discuss Kela rides, school rides and these special groups' rides in the same context, because the rides paid for by society account for almost half of all taxi rides, but they are not covered by the Ministry of Transport and Communications and are not covered by this legislation. Thus, even in terms of availability, it is possible for municipalities in these competitions to require on-call duty. I would hope that, for example, in the joint hometown of Mr Kauto and myself, which is not a small village, such emergency services can be arranged so that we too can get to a taxi. At the end of the day, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mrs Lundén raised an issue of fundamental importance, namely the issue of dark rides on the Internet. I also brought this up at the last minute, and we found even more specific possibilities of intervention. We specified that a licence for taxi services is required both for the carriage of professional persons by vehicles defined by law and for the provision of these services to the public. So that is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u39	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u40	Madam President! As I said in the debate, it is wonderful to note that the Government and the Ministry are implementing the Government Programme. The correct word for this certainly is the ‘repair kit’, which is important to us to be aware that we have based this performance on some measures which Well, in Helsinki there are few of them growing, but there are more poles here that have been encountered in relation to this previous reform. It is important to note that it is precisely the provision of social services by individual independent entrepreneurs. Although the Kela ride is a part of it and is now not directly covered by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, a very large number of farmers have stopped being self-employed when such an unkindly mafia-like mediation orchestra has been created between them, who take the threshold money to get the entrepreneur in the ring, and regularly cashes in on the rides as well. At this point, they will agree with the Ministry of Transport and Communications if we really want to contribute to that healthy competition, and this is certainly where there is this willingness to be on-call so that there is now a presence in Äänekoski, so that the citizens, the citizens of the city, can get a ride, must now at least be careful that we do not open up the possibility for brokering companies to re-establish in a way the obligation to place and on-call obligations of the previous law. This would not make these entrepreneurs any more renegade; they would be even worse off, so the precision must be that we can restore the competitive position that normal entrepreneurship is also a part of the taxi industry. In that sense, I hope that the Minister of Transport will go there on behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to say that we are now taking steps forward together so that we can restore the normal situation in this country with regard to the competition for taxis. Mr Lundén
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u43	Madam President! As demonstrated in the debate by many colleagues, that last season's taxi reform was very bad. It can be said that even at the time of the drafting of the legislation, many people here warned about the situation in Sweden, among other things, and in that sense I cannot agree with what has been said in some way that some of these situations have come as a surprise, because those concerns were expressed by the opposition at the time. And, as I said here, if we start with on-call price regulation, education obligation and quantity regulation, everything that can be dismantled at the same time, there can be nothing but, you might say, the wild west of the taxi industry, and with liberalisation there have been a great many players involved. I myself have been particularly concerned about rural areas and sparsely populated areas, all in all about areas outside growth centres, because in many remote villages this situation has led to a reduction in the number of taxi services and, for example, to the situation that the next generation is thinking of continuing that business, has not been realised, and many people close to retirement age or have found that now that they can somehow get to work there until retirement, for example, this is the end of the business. It should be noted that in many small agglomerations the only rides are mainly either participation in school transport or Kela rides, so in that sense too — although we know very well here that Kela rides are not really a matter under the Ministry of Transport — this link is so important and it is, in a particular area, the core of the breadmaking process, in fact, that the entrepreneurship in that area can be realized. I remember there was talk about the traffic curve last season that even in rural areas there is the possibility of doing this in accordance with the traffic curve, i.e. looking at the whole ride line from just there to the home gate then to where you are going, so of course you also have to take into account how this affects in that respect. But I think that with this reform this situation has not improved, and it would be very interesting to hear from the ministries whether these combined rides in line with the traffic cycle have gone any further. Madam President! It is very important that this reform is also bringing entrepreneurship training and experiment, and in that sense I hope that this kind of driver's better basic knowledge of which city we are in, and also the ability to work with different customer groups would also be measured before there is a chance for that taxi permit. On the other hand, it is also important to take account of the fact that this new situation has also caused an increasing grey economy, and it is also what it was originally thought would go in the other direction — that prices have become opaque in various ways, that is to say, it is really difficult to compare that price, and in that sense the grey economy has also increased. In my view, it is also necessary to take account of the fact that it is a taxi that is at the top of the list. This is particularly evident when talking about groups of people such as the disabled or the elderly, or those who otherwise have reduced cognitive ability, for example, to detect or communicate. Indeed, the customer must know what the cost of a taxi ride is and what the basis for it is. In that sense, these changes in the repair series need to be examined there in the committee and made sure that all these different points are taken into account now and that we will get a better situation for taxi entrepreneurs across Finland but, above all, for taxi customers, and that we will then be able to help to ensure that we have good, uniform, high-quality taxi services across Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u44	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u45	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u46	Mr President! ‘Order for donation and change. “ ‘Services cannot be safeguarded by increasing constraints and ‘Flexible legislation lays the This type of debate took place around the previous reform of taxi legislation. Well, what was the result? Not much good, really. The level of services weakened, the grey economy flared up, the skills of drivers weakened with the dismantling of training regulations. After the vehicle regulations were removed, the equipment became very varied. Prices rose: it is estimated that in the largest urban regions around 14 per cent on average. Many provinces were particularly affected by this reform, and many of them then ceased to operate in this context. The reliability of service providers was also weakened. The positive thing was, of course, that there was an increase in the number of taxis, but of course it also brought with it the problems that were already mentioned in this Chamber. It is a good thing that this tragedy was acknowledged in the Government Programme and then started to make a bill on the basis of it. After all, the aim is to correct the shortcomings identified in the taxi business, in particular as regards the safety of the customer, the fight against the shadow economy, pricing, pricing transparency and the availability of taxis. In particular, it is proposed to remedy these shortcomings by facilitating price comparisons and their reliability, re-establishing driver qualifications through compulsory entrepreneurial training and creating a voluntary training model for specific groups. With regard to the special groups, as has been the case with some speeches in this Chamber, perhaps we could have thought of stricter obligations in terms of training. In the case of the grey economy, the information required for tax supervision would be defined through the electronic platform, and it is also important for supervision that the holder of a taxi licence already has a business ID at the time of granting the licence. In social media, taxi delivery is currently rampant, and it must also be brought under control in this context. The authorities simply do not have the resources for monitoring at the moment. It is also important that the requirements for the identification of a taxi be made easier when taxi plates return, and perhaps even the registration plate issue raised by Mrs Myllykoski should be taken up in that committee round. A taximeter would be mandatory for all taxi rides, but the customer still has the possibility to agree on a fixed price. In parallel with this reform, it is important that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Ministry of Transport, have started work on the development of publicly supported transport. The aim must be to strengthen the availability, cooperation and regional effectiveness of public-funded and purchased transport. The main problems are, in particular, in the absence of public transport in sparsely populated and rural areas and in the absence of reduced availability of taxi services following the previous reform. I also think that this work should be done on a faster schedule than is now being proposed. Although the work has started, this is largely linked to the 12-year transport system plan, but there would be a more acute need for Kela's rides and these rides at once. The reform is important to restore the credibility of the sector and to restore customer confidence in taxi transport. What is important is that these repairs can be carried through on schedule, and also those presentations with regard to equipment and measuring instruments and others, with transitional periods, are justifiable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u47	Madam President! Indeed, last season, the Taxi Act took a few laps too much, perhaps too much on the road to reform without hearing the criticism and the threats that this reform involved. They have been realised in many respects, and now this series of corrections is really needed, as has been heard here today, by all the parties in this House. The Government's objectives to improve the quality of taxi services, to make this pricing more transparent and, above all, to address those who do not comply with the common rules, and those who do not pay taxes properly, are very worthy objectives, and I think that it is thanks not only to the government and ministers, but also to the whole Parliament, who have wanted to tackle these shortcomings. However, some of this series of corrections is still lacking in strength, and I would like to raise a few challenges or shortcomings which the committee should address in its future work. I find it somewhat unusual that these language requirements, which have been mentioned here today, are, in my view, not sufficient for taxi drivers in this proposal. In this committee reading of the repair series, attention should be paid to the language skills of taxi drivers, to examining whether these current claims, which are contained in this proposal, are sufficient to ensure that the service is provided at an adequate level. In my opinion, knowledge of Finnish in the service profession at even a satisfactory level is a very important issue. Mr President! This reform is partly accompanied by needs that I well recognise. There is an unthankful position for Finnish industry if we have legislation that prevents new companies or applications from being created in this country, but it is not worth going too far. For this lamp on the roof of taxis and related provisions: Despite these, I believe that the introduction of separate taxi plates should continue to be seriously considered as one option. For all eligible taxis, separate taxi plates could be introduced, as is the case in some other countries, because then the customer and the authority would know that things are in order and that they are in accordance with the regulations. Well, as far as the challenges are concerned, in order to enable part-time taxi operations, this too should be maintained. Part-time taxi operations can not only provide additional earnings, but also allow additional provision in areas where there may not be enough supply, and offer new opportunities for people who, for example, do not have a normal livelihood all year round. The most important thing is that bureaucracy is kept to a minimum but to a sufficient degree, and there is also a need for the control that many Members have been concerned about here today: that is, good rules alone are not enough, but also control and control resources. To be honest, this proposal has not gone far enough with regard to the issue of access, and this is something that the Committee on Transport and Communications should pay attention to. I also believe that this issue of access will continue to be addressed in this Chamber. It is always good to think about how we can avoid extra bureaucracy, but how we can tackle these shortcomings on the one hand: can we achieve these reforms and these necessary corrections with a smaller amount of bureaucracy, how small taxi entrepreneurs can cope with additional bureaucracy, and are new expensive standards, for example for taximeters, mandatory, will there be other technology-independent means that we have this tax meter model, but that it will not entail excessive costs for the entrepreneur? Mr President! The Committee on Transport and Communications will have a lot of work to do with the legislative package, and it is important for the committee to take into account the need to maintain the capacity of taxi entrepreneurs who comply with the rules, but also to ensure a safe and high-quality service for customers. The previous speaker spoke very well about access, taxi services in remote areas, taxi services in rural areas. In them, this reform by the previous Parliament has gone wrong, but now we must as far as possible correct this current package, when it is possible only with the help of current legislation, and actually take account of the mistakes that have already been made. I am sure that there will be a lot of work to do, and I hope that the repair kit number two will come to this Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u48	Madam President! In the debate, Mr Kautto mentioned that I was trying to get this on the government. If such a misconception was to remain, I meant, rather, that the government would not go ahead with this reform, because in the truth, one and another party has burned their toes on this issue before. One thing that should, of course, be taken very closely into care and tried to get some sort of correction is supervision. In fact, in Finland — almost anything we talk about, talk about the environment or anything — the lack of supervision is really a bad thing. Sanctions are often far too small, they do not control very much at all. However, we have excellent examples of good sanctions. Fuel oil: Transporters could refuel fuel oil and drive it. The personal experience of thirty years is that one time has been measured in our car, and then I did not even drive it. It is so violent that no one dares to go to that game, and it guides you so that you don’t have to have so much control. It's the same thing now that a few years ago this decommissioning thing came up with the minimum fee of EUR 1 000. Well, more than thousands of euros have had to pay a little bit of money, like by accident, when you have not known the whole thing or you have had a childhood, but that payment is so drastic that it leads to the end of traffic in virtually unregistered or uninsured cars. This is extremely important that this control is invested in and sanctions are tough enough, because it also means that there will be additional funding for that control, because when it is poor control and sanctions are, it is now said, cast, a few tens or a few hundred, then it will not affect in any way. That wild west still stays in that business completely, because now we have like wild taxis that you could even offer as adventures: jump in a taxi and be surprised where you are going. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u49	Madam President! In accordance with the Government Programme, the objective of this bill is to correct the shortcomings identified in the taxi business, in particular as regards safety, the fight against the shadow economy, pricing transparency and the availability of taxis. The fact is that this legislative package is certainly not complete and problems and challenges will continue to arise. In fact, I would say that taxi operators also play a key role: that they will do so in the future too, and that taxi operators themselves will experience and take a position in such a way that they are also entrepreneurs and will then also be responsible for the professionalism and serviceability of drivers, that is, what kind of drivers there are in the taxi. The aim now is to improve the safety and quality of taxi services by means of this government proposal and, among other things, the content of the taxi driver's test will be specified, inter alia, by defining the minimum content of the subject areas covered by the test questions. The aim is also to improve the basic skills of drivers and their ability to work with different customer groups. The fact is that, for example, there is a different situation here in the capital region and elsewhere in Finland: usually outside the capital region, taxi drivers can speak Finnish, but there will be – as has often been the case here – this lack of language skills and the understanding of where they are going and how to get there, and also whether the area of activity is sufficiently well known. I personally hope that the training there will also pay attention to the fact that drivers are also familiar with the place where they move. Then, in terms of the safety and quality of taxi services, it is important that the government's proposal includes this new voluntary driver training for special groups and compulsory entrepreneurship training as well. In my opinion, this is an important issue. As regards the fight against the grey economy, it is important that the permit for taxis is granted only to a person who has a business code and has completed an entrepreneurial training and test. And what has now come up in the discussions about this identification of a taxi, that it is the cab dome there, I have always felt that a different registration plate would be a good way of identifying the police too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u50	Madam President! It is good that problems are addressed and errors are corrected, that it should be a minimum requirement, and it is also extremely accurate to listen to what is being said outside this house and to what kind of ideas there are, and especially to listen to the people affected by these decisions. I give a few French lines of greetings from the field, which this reform has sparked: ‘Unfortunately, there is no new element in the reform,and more bureaucracy is being done. “ ‘Anything that is necessary Even the new rules won't help if they're not monitored. The reform has not taken any account of control.” ‘Refusal of a licence would quickly remedy the For example, sufficient language skills and local knowledge are provided by the licence holder at the risk of losing the licence.’ There's quite a lot of these greetings, but I've just taken these most important things off the top of my head. I would think that the financial and entrepreneurship training now required for taxi companies is a great idea. This is a very good thing, and this should be more, more widely used. But what other industries are required to do this? No way. How equal is this, and how well now does this correct the most serious problems in the taxi industry? Entrepreneurial training is, after all, targeted at entrepreneurs. What are the effects of this on the drivers, the taxi drivers there? They have practically nothing but the Traficom experiment, which is quite modest. Just do it, and anyone can jump into the cab wheel. But, for example, would not sufficient language skills, local knowledge and the need for specific knowledge be one of the things that should be tested, and if the minimum requirements are not met, then there would be grounds for refusing that licence? I would like to emphasise that control. It is an extremely important thing that when regulation is made, then supervision is also required. This is the starting point, and they go hand in hand: if there is no other, there is no other. And if this is not the case, then it will be an absolutely empty entry and virtually nothing will be done about it. In my opinion, it is quite a wild answer which was heard from the Minister, who says that there is no control of the operation because there is no resources. It does then simply mean that there is no regulation either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u51	Mr President! ‘Tax legislation,regulation andmonitoring is thereforerevisedtoencouragethemergergrey economy,promoting effective competition and ensuringthe availability ofservices throughoutthecountry. “ This is the case with the government programme, and it is great that excellent speeches have been made in this Chamber today on this series of corrections to make appropriate corrections to this current legislation. There's the representative. S.H.I.E.L.L.D. was a great source of field messages, and I myself have been talking over the years with taxi drivers and taxi drivers — we are talking about taxis. Many have said that, before this reform, there was agreement that legislation should be reformed and reforms made, but this current reform went completely wrong. Yes, there is a message from the airport that this needs to be corrected, but just like the representative here. S.H.I.E.L.D. also pointed out the importance of monitoring must be maintained, so that everyone will then have proper rules when taxiing is promoted and carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u52	President! Yes, language skills are a very important part of this. In the previous debate, Mr Mari Rantanen asked Minister Haraka very well that, at the moment, when an interpreter is involved in this experiment, can we continue to do so? And Minister Harakka went around the question and replied that it was arranged in Finnish and Swedish, but did not answer whether the interpreter could be involved. If the interpreter is allowed to be involved, then what after the test? For example, when an old man steps into a taxi and the driver does not know any Finnish or Swedish, that is a pretty bad situation at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u53	Mr President! Indeed, last season, the taxi reform was ambitious, and even at that stage in the process there were very many questions and doubts. Unfortunately, the concerns expressed at the time have come to a very high degree. In other words, at the moment the situation in taxi traffic is clearly worse than before this reform, especially in terms of the availability and quality of taxi services and also in terms of the safety of customers and also of the grey economy. And it is good that the government has now brought before Parliament this repair battery, which hopefully will be able to partially eliminate these shortcomings. I think it is particularly important to try to tackle this grey economy. It is important for citizens to be able to identify what is the right taxi, and that is why these taxi sensors must be there, and the police must also have adequate means and sanctions for unauthorized taxis. But there is still one particular concern here, and that is the availability of taxi services, to which this proposal is not going to be sufficiently corrected, as it were. The problem is that there is an oversupply of these taxis, especially now during the corona epidemic in cities, especially here in the centre of Helsinki, but then in sparsely populated areas the availability of taxis has suffered. I therefore hope that this whole package will now be dealt with in Parliament with special care in order to make a real correction to the problems that have arisen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u54	Mr President! It is indeed a good thing that this Lex Berner is now being repaired. I must say that Minister Berner disappeared when he received his feedback to Sweden and, as I said earlier, our group, under the leadership of this misleading leader, was involved in this. Well, one fled to Sweden, and the other got the people talking, but that's it. I myself asked about this language skills, as Mr Rantanen and Mr Koponen also pointed out. Would the Minister tell us what this training will ensure and whether it will first of all ensure that (a) the driver has sufficient language skills and (b) how else to test this suitability as a customer servant and otherwise, for example, by checking the criminal record, so that all persons can safely be put on board or go there themselves, and that the elderly and children know where to find or find their mother at all? Indeed, there was not really an answer about the content of the training, nor about whether an interpreter could be used there. It does not improve the language skills of this person if the interpreter is next to it. I don't think that this interpreter will be sitting in that fearer's seat that this was quite worrying. Fortunately, we in the Committee on Legal Affairs have, for example, Mr Laakso, who has spoken well here. In other words, he has listened carefully to this referral debate and will certainly catch up with these, which is what the committee is now going to have to deal with extremely carefully. Many have spoken about this control, and it is also important to look at it, because it is true, as Mr Kilpi said, for example, that there is no point in having such fine legislation if it is not monitored by anyone. It doesn't really matter then. Then it is based only on hope and hope. A lot of people here also mentioned this problem with the Kela taxi. That has nothing to do with this, but now that we have the opportunity to speak in this Chamber, despite the restrictions on the corona, we sometimes get to talk here, so I would like to say, as has been pointed out in the presence of the Minister: the government says hello that this problem of the Kela taxi is good for us to go through. Last season, I was elected to the Social Insurance Institution. I don't remember getting as much feedback on a single issue at the Kela Council as I did on these Kela taxis. This has caused a great deal of confusion both for customers and for those entrepreneurs who lost their old familiar customers, but I really hope that the committee will carefully look into this and answer the questions that the minister did not answer about the ministerial box. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u55	Mr President! There has been a good debate here in this Chamber, and I think it is very good that such a debate on referrals is taking place on such an important issue that we now have. As I said in my first debate, we must live in time, and if it is said that there is something that needs to be improved and corrected by law, then we must also do so. And this taxi issue is something that certainly needs to be improved and corrected, and now we have a repair package in our hands. I'm sure it's not perfect, and I'm sure we'll get back to this. It must be remembered that during the last parliamentary term, when this matter was discussed, the Taxi Federation itself wanted them to be included in the Act on Transport Services, i.e. in the Transport Services Act, and their views were also taken up. But now these problems have arisen, and now we are also trying to improve them. I sincerely believe that, when this is there in the Committee on Transport and Communications — and I myself am the vice-president there — it will be properly dealt with and consulted and sought to improve the matter. In my opinion, it is very good that this is the substance of the taxi driver's test that is now being clarified. And it is very important that the driver has a key role to play in the service the customers receive, and in particular that those special groups who play an important role feel that they have a driver in the car who is able to help and also direct them and take them to the right place. This is important; this was also mentioned last season. Then this compulsory entrepreneurial training is very good. There is also voluntary driver training for special groups. I personally hope that taxi companies will also invest in this issue and acquire drivers who will undergo this training. It's that entrepreneurship at its best. And for all taxi rides a taximeter or other meter or system that collects and retains the information required by law should be used. This is precisely the way to combat the shadow economy and also the way things are done in practice. One thing that will certainly be discussed after that is precisely the availability of taxis. In this government proposal, it has probably not been fully resolved, as the Minister has also said. This availability requires cooperation between different ministries. And I personally hope that there will be a joint debate on the Kela taxis, which belong there under the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and then on school rides. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that in the future, there would be no need for a taxi licence or a taxi driver's driving licence for the limited transport activities included in the service package of the home and tourist service companies. In this respect, it would return to that situation before the Act on Transport Services. In my opinion, this is good for small things that can be done with older people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u56	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u57	Mr President! A very brief presentation of the government's proposal for a vehicle law and related laws. Of course, vehicle traffic does not stop at the borders of the state. It must be safe and smooth both at home and across borders. That is why road safety and technical conformity of vehicles are key issues. And that is why a framework regulation on cars and their trailers has also been drawn up in the EU, and this regulation must now also be taken into account in national legislation. The government has therefore submitted a proposal for a new type of vehicle to complement the EU framework regulation. The new vehicle law would be consistent with EU legislation and would eliminate the overlap in vehicle approval regulation. The renewed EU legislation will further promote road safety and impose new obligations on Member States to monitor the conformity of vehicles on the market. The role of market surveillance in the new vehicle law would be strengthened by the imposition of penalties, and the proposal is that the Agency could impose a penalty on vehicle operators for infringements of vehicle regulation. A number of structural and legal changes would also be made to the new vehicle law, which would make the vehicle law a clearer and more effective entity. Mr President! With these proposals, we respond to the objectives of EU legislation to strengthen market surveillance of vehicles and promote road safety in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u58	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. Of course, this too comes from the EU and will be put into practice in Finland. And when you look at this package of laws — the Minister presented it very briefly — this package, on the whole, affects a great many laws and must be taken into account. It is good that it is now being carefully reviewed, that there will be no such loopholes there or some contradictions and numbering. I myself would like to raise a few points. There is, for example, the one law on car scrapping premiums and the law on car scrapping fees. We are likely to have it here as a government proposal, but that law allows for conversion aid for cars that are converted into gas and ethanol. That law already exists there today, but now it remains there. And I personally think it is very important for the future, too, so that we can get to the ever-lower-emission vehicles and also be able to respond to these climate challenges. That conversion aid is important, whether it comes through the scrapping premium or whatever. And I personally hope that this will remain and that this will also be carried forward in such a way that conversion aid will continue to be available for various fuels.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u59	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u60	Mr President! Värderade Talman! In Finland, tobacco policy aims to reduce and end the use of tobacco products by 2030. Over 80 per cent of prisoners smoke, which is considerably higher than in the general population. Smoking therefore has a negative effect on the health of much of the prisoners. Prisoners have been allowed to smoke freely in their cells in closed prisons. It is not possible to prevent tobacco smoke from entering other cells inside the prison. As a result, smoking in prisoners can cause health damage not only to smokers but also to nonsmokers who are forced to stay in smoking facilities. Similarly, indoor tobacco smoke also causes health damage to prison staff. This can be considered problematic in terms of safety at work for staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u61	Mr President! During this period, the Minister has brought good proposals, among other things, to the funding of the courts, but now I have to say that it is going to the forest. This is a compulsory law for smokers, for those who smoke in prison. I can't understand why you can't smoke outside. I cannot understand the fact that more than EUR 400,000 a year is being put into the treatment of tobacco withdrawal symptoms, these nicotine chewing gums. This started from the fact that the Assistant Ombudsman said that these restrictions should be laid down by law, and it was then a question of being limited. And now you bring in a situation where you can't smoke at all. I would ask that if a fat person comes to prison, is this the next thing they'll tell you that you can get diabetes, that you can't buy yummy from the canteen? It's great if a person stops smoking, but not like this, not by force. Outside smoking
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u62	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. I am also absolutely of the opinion that there is no obstacle to banning smoking inside and that no one there should be exposed to passive smoking in their own work. But I don't think this is quite as black and white as it is right now. Many prisoners face psychological challenges, mental health is poor, and the problems are very diverse. There is concern for work, family, apartment, which also adds to the mental load. It is true that smoking is a health hazard, but for many it is the only way to calm down in prison. I believe that the imposition of smoking will not result in any lasting health benefits, as it will require a person's own commitment, motivation and willingness to change their own health habits. We must also remember that nicotine replacement products are not suitable for everyone. Of course, we're always on sedatives. They'll calm down a bigger guy or a lady.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u63	Mr President! It is quite right that the staff and perhaps the non-smokers should not suffer passive tobacco smoke, but, as previous speakers have said here, the reality may not go quite along with this ideal. It is quite clear that even if the law of coercion comes, smoking will not stop. At present, drug use is not allowed in prisons either, but we know that it is a very big problem there, and even more than 70% of prisoners have some kind of substance abuse problem. Most likely, if tobacco were banned, tobacco would be smuggled there. Even now, in prisons where this is banned inside, it is known that there have been significant incidents when smokers have been lit, for example, through sockets, and that is the challenge here. And I find it a little wonderful, too, in the sense that in this society there is talk — even seriously — that cannabis should be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u64	Mr President! I have been going through both Finnish and international studies on the subject during the weekend, and it seems that we have nothing — nothing — about the effects of forced cessation on substance abuse treatment and the possibility of people getting sober. This is no small matter, because 80% of prisoners have substance abuse problems, and this has become even more pronounced with the return of the conversion penalty. Getting control of the substance abuse problem is often also a condition for breaking the cycle of crime, that is, people not coming back to prison. But we also have research evidence of voluntary smoking cessation that in some situations the risk of relapse increases, i.e. that it is individually suitable or not appropriate. Most prisoners want to quit. I do not understand why we cannot go into a system with smoking restrictions on the other Nordic models and on top of that sufficient support to stop smoking, which is currently in prison.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u65	Mr President! According to studies, the great harm to the health of smokers and bystanders caused by smoking is beyond doubt. A determined reduction in smoking in public institutions is therefore a goal worth pursuing in itself. The preparation of this proposal has required reflection on the fundamental rights of prisoners. I think it has been done well. Almost all commentators considered the ban on smoking in closed prisons to be the best solution. Passive smoking is harmful to the health of non-smokers in many ways. The explanatory statement to this motion clearly states that they cannot be guaranteed smoke-free air in closed prisons. Even if the ban on smoking interferes with the right of the prisoner to self-determination, on the other hand, staff and non-smokers must have the right to clean air. Studies show that passive smoking causes asthma, lung cancer and cardiovascular diseases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u66	Mr President! Indeed, this government proposal bans smoking in closed prisons altogether. It would still be possible to continue in open spaces. This presentation limits most of the prisoners’ lives, for indeed, as many here have said, as many as 80% of the prisoners smoke. And it is also clear that it is necessary for us to ban smoking there indoors, for smoke is also passed on to people who do not smoke, so the right to that smoke-free room is certainly more important than the right to smoke. But it is important, when this bill comes to us in the Legal Committee, that we carefully look into it and once again find out whether this whole ban is really the only option, or whether it is possible to limit the possibility of smoking, even in the context of outdoor activities. It is important that this is now resolved in depth, so that the right thing will certainly come back to this House again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u67	Mr President! Of course, this bill has very much to support from the point of view of health and for non-smoker prisoners, but also for workers in particular. But the first concern that arises here is that we have had a lot of talk about violence, aggression in prisons in recent weeks, and this certainly does not diminish it, so this is something that needs to be resolved. However, there is talk of 80% of prisoners who smoke. Then this line of action bothers me a little bit about the fact that, in the case of drugs, we have been talking like mantras to reduce the harm. No more talking about stopping drugs. Why would that be different from what we're doing here? Tobacco is taken in this way that it needs to be stopped. And, as Mr Purra has already mentioned, even the government parties have become such a proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u68	Madam President! For a person who knows the prison world, this proposal is admittedly quite radical, but I hope that it will be treated with open-mindedness. This is a good objective, and in this explanatory statement the Minister has already highlighted the experience of Denmark and Estonia, for example, where in practice it has proved difficult to restrict smoking only partially, for example, only indoors. This has led to these tobacco products being then exported to cells. You have to take it seriously. I have been in Parliament for so long that I have seen many of these tobacco laws, their handling. They have always been opposed and seen as completely impossible, for example, to ban smoking in restaurants. I would also like to see this as a positive alternative, and I would like to ask the Minister whether there is sufficient resources for these support measures to wean out of tobacco?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u69	Madam President! The ban on smoking will cause a lot of disturbance and serious problems in closed prisons. Many prisoners are multi-problems with significant mixed substance abuse problems. Smoking is a prerequisite for many people, and for many people the ban on smoking can be even worse than imprisonment and more intolerable punishment, or at least the effectiveness of the punishment will be at a different level. You don't just treat major changes with nicotine detachment. How to ensure that the ban does not create too great a problem and that there is no risk to the staff and resources involved in prison management? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u70	Madam President! Passive smoking is indeed dangerous, but here, for example, Mrs Räsänen compares this to restaurant smoking. In my opinion, it tells us a little bit of a lack of perspective that they are even being compared, because the situation is that everyone in the restaurants is burning up right now, and all the booths had to be stopped there, because that group moved to the booths. But the real problem with this case is losing people's nerves. For seven years, I didn't smoke in between. My company went bankrupt, and I must say this: I do not regret this day that I have started smoking again, because the alternative might be that I was hanging on a birch branch. It was actually the saving angel for me, and I'm afraid I haven't gotten rid of it since. But this is a whole other thing than where I'm from.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u71	Madam President! Minister! Here the government wants to take care of those who suffer from smoking prisoners, such as nonsmokers and prison staff. I am much more concerned about the citizens who suffer in their own apartment when a neighbor smokes on his balcony. I know that balcony smoking can be banned, but a bureaucratic procedure has been put in place to ensure that there has been very little bans. A special general meeting decision is required, an application is required for the city, various attachments to it, the housing company must pay and so on. I ask the Minister of Justice: when will you, together with the Ministry of Justice, prepare for a change in the housing company law or elsewhere that the general meeting in normal order might decide whether to smoke in that company on the balcony or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u72	There will be three more replies and then there will be a minister. Mr Koponen, Mr Ari, Mr Ovaska and Mr Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u73	President! The Finnish Institute of Occupational Health has measured the exposure of prison workers to tobacco smoke in Helsinki Prison in summer 2017. Based on the measurements, smoking in prisoners' quarters causes tobacco smoke in the general compartments, which exceeds the harmful health limit values for workers. In addition, the violence against the guards continues to increase. Do we want representatives of a socially important profession to be put at risk in the workplace for these reasons which are independent of themselves? But as has been said here, it is not so black and white. So you think there's any other option besides forced law?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u74	Madam President! Representative Rantanen suggested that this government would take drugs lightly, for example, or would allow cannabis to be used in prisons or elsewhere in Finland. That's not true. That's what I'm gonna fix in the middle. I ran from that hall when I listened especially to representatives of the government parties. We too, as well as the opposition, now have little doubt about certain aspects of this legislation. I believe that the Committee on Legal Affairs will have time to sit down with the Secretary-General's staff and evaluate very carefully and see what kind of statements have been made about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u75	Mr President! We will examine this carefully in the Committee on Legal Affairs. This may take time, and we are also aware of the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I know that this is linked to the budget law, but personally I believe that this law is so important in principle that I hope that the ministry will understand if there are any problems with these timetables. That is where Mr Ovaska raised Mr Rantanen's speech. He referred to the fact that some of the leaders of the government parties have presented such things, that's what he meant. Of course, it is very worrying if you see drugs in some way better or lighter than tobacco. It's a disturbing view. I would say to Mr Räsänen that this is precisely a question of what I personally think, at least personally, that it is quite obvious that smoking should be banned inside. It's not today. But outside, too? Person who does not know
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u76	Secretary Henrikson, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u77	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate. This is a difficult subject, and I can also tell you that I myself have been sitting with a lot of officials and going through these different options. However, in the overall assessment, in order to protect the health of non-smokers and staff and to maintain the order and security of prisoners and prisons, I believe that the ban on smoking is a well-founded solution in this situation. But of course I understand that this is going to take time, and it is going to take what it lasts. It must also, of course, go to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to be assessed, the extent to which there are constitutional issues here: tackling fundamental human rights, but at the same time protecting the fundamental rights of others, and that is something that must be kept in mind all the time. You don't do this because it's fun. This is precisely because of keeping these other persons in prison — both other prisoners and prison staff — to protect them from smoking. I've been asked why you can't smoke outside. That is a well-founded question. I have also presented it myself, and I have received the answer that practical experience shows that if prisoners get possession of tobacco products and are allowed to smoke in outdoor activities, it is impossible to completely prevent them from being transported to their cells by means of supervision, and this will then become an ancillary effect. There will be problems with smoking in cells and then there will be problems of order and so on. So that's why it's hard. Moreover, it is not possible to use the input of the guards to control or organise smoking, as other supervision of outdoor situations, for example, would suffer. So this is the whole, and that is why it has been asked whether there is enough money for this. Yes, it has now been invested in providing enough money for this very treatment of withdrawal symptoms, and every prisoner who smokes today will have access to and support for these substances. In next year's budget, additional funds have also been allocated to the Criminal Sanctions Agency. The Criminal Sanctions Agency itself also says that they know that, especially in the early stages, anxiety can arise in prisons, but this has also been provided for, but it is considered that the safety risk associated with this is lower than the problems arising from the organisation of smoking. So this is what we've done. Then, Mr Zyskowicz, on this question of yours, which has nothing to do with it: today I have gone over it with the officials. An assessment report on the reform of the Companies Act is under way and will shortly be ready for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u78	Let us move on to the list of speakers for a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u79	Madam President! Indeed, it is a question of protecting prison guards and other staff from tobacco smoke, which in itself is quite right, and that is not even in this Chamber, in these previous debates, much has been denied that this should be corrected. But, of course, the fact that such a total ban is being imposed is, in fact, a completely absurd thing to do. In prisons, too, 80% smoke cigarettes, and I almost can guess that the same 80% suffers from ADHD or if ADHD does not suffer from ADD or exclusion or similar. The best way to do this in the final games would be to put money in this matter anyway, and this could also be done in such a way that there are smoking opportunities. These parables I read, for example, from Estonia and elsewhere, the problem is that they get to smoke in outdoors once or twice a day, and that is why the need is for them to be smuggled back into prisons and the like. But if this were actually arranged in such a way that they do not have to get 24/7 to smoke that tobacco, but during that normal day anyway, not necessarily even a pack, but for some time, this would of course make it impossible for them to get under the same pressure. As I said in that debate myself earlier, tobacco — which, of course, will not be admitted by doctors and others, certainly never will any doctor in the country of Finland admit — would be a medical substance for ADHD in any way, but I can tell you from my own life that my wife was a few months ago without smoking tobacco, and I had to ask her on my knees to stop that strike because it didn't work out at all. The concentration ran completely away — he was quite, I mean, a different person. It was a complete mess all day long when I couldn't keep my mind together. He's actually suffering from the same thing I'm suffering from, ADHD, but he's still got a couple of clicks bigger. In my opinion, when I read the expert opinions of all kinds, they were little and no more committed to the end of smoking and not to the overall problem, and that is why there were very few who mentioned the problem themselves, which is the biggest problem in fact. It is easy to think that the prisoners themselves have set themselves up there, but unfortunately it has to be said that there are quite a lot of people there, even because we have not managed our property well enough here. There are a lot of people in prisons who have collapsed and whose life paths have gone a little in the wrong direction. That's how someone who's been bullied or marginalized or something like that can find himself for example in criminal organisations. There is that support and security and so-called brotherhood. Never before has anyone ever experienced such a thing as being a friend or something. I would see that we are now putting money on anyway, but if we were to show the money in such a way that this prison smoking would continue — not in the booth, of course, but either in certain areas where there is air conditioning, or in a tobacco booth, or in order to get out to smoke, as we actually do, representatives, here we are. My guess is that it would cost even less, and we could even keep peace there in prisons, because I have to say that I do not quite easily believe that there are many prison guards capable of standing up to the fact that they are actually on the side of this issue if this can be dealt with in any other way than by a total ban on smoking in prisons. In any case, this will cause at least a relatively large number of mental disorders and the like. There is another solution if we want to. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u80	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u81	We will now resume the debate on item 6 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u82	Is that five minutes? Thank you, Mr President. There was a lively debate in this Chamber in the presence of the Minister, and although there are quite a few people here, even because of these restrictions, I think that, at least in my own opinion — and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights too — there was a great deal of difficulty here, and few people understood that this smoking of prisoners would be banned altogether. In other words, it is proposed in this government proposal that smoking in an open house should be allowed outside, as is the case today, and in these closed prisons smoking should be banned completely both inside and outside. This results from the ban on smoking in cells in Helsinki prison a few years ago, and numerous prisoners complained about this. The Assistant Ombudsman interpreted the current law in such a way that the Criminal Sanctions Agency cannot simply issue orders without the support of the law, and such restrictions should be laid down by law. I find it rather remarkable when I can imagine that when thesecomplainants have been given such a solution and think that ‘no,maybe the clear regulations of the future will not be burned even though in the outdoors ’ — I don’t know what they have thought,but I imagine —the government’s motion is a total ban. I thought that if I complained that there was a time when I could run away,and the outcome was that‘what you said was the It is true that a person can smoke outside in peace when he makes sure that he does not go to prison, but many of the speeches here – for example, Mr Laakso mentioned it – have many excluded people, many people with multiple problems who go to crime, for example, because of drug problems. And it must also be understood that there will always be prisoners in every society and in the future. We will never have such a situation. The purpose of this law is, in itself, fine, that it is very encouraging that everyone should stop smoking and it is absolutely essential that there should be no exposure to smoking or other health risks in their own work. That is perfectly clear. And I think that smoking bans are justified in the cells, because there are other people there, such as the cleaners and the guards, and there is smoke going into other rooms. Here you could have picked me up like a little hybrid model: that you could smoke when you're out, and maybe you can get these nicotine products on top if you have severe symptoms of weaning, or now you have really good indoor air vacuum cleaners under which the prisoners could smoke — it's really good to smoke around the room, even if it's in the same room. Some of these types of solutions. Since several hundreds of thousands of euros a year are invested in this, this would have been arranged without blackmailing the prisoners’ surface to the very extreme — as has been pointed out here — it is often a very emotional addiction and then physical dependence — and that would have been one solution. This is just a complete ban. It has been said that if you just go out for a cigarette, then cigarettes are smuggled. I don't understand it, because now if there's a total ban, it's the same way that cigarettes are smuggled in. We're smuggling drugs in there today, aren't we? Now, somehow, this is not exactly the point and the means. I thought about it when a person comes to prison and has a lot of problems in the background — it makes me sick that he committed it, well, I now went to prison, I may regret it, and like that, the family is angry, went to work, everything — and then when you get there and you think you can even smoke your nerves, you shove a nicotine gum box in your hand and say you rip it out. You know, some people can get a little hot in it. And if you think about what has been said in recent days, that is, this violence in prisons, the first thing you should focus on is what is stated in the government’s proposal, that is, that this is likely to lead to more disorder. Finally, I would like to say that the purpose of imprisonment, at least according to the law of imprisonment, is to support a person in a life without crime and to restore him to society. Maybe you should also add this kind of proper maintenance, if that's what you want to do — I want to say a little sarcasticly. As I said earlier here, if you come in a fat prisoner, you probably won't tell him now either that you don't go out there and buy yummy candy in the canteen so you can get diabetes. That this is going to go too far and I have to say that, as it is, I cannot accept it personally. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u83	Thank you, Mr Meri. Let's fix it enough more so that seven minutes is really that...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u84	Mr President! I, too, am very concerned about this bill. The protection of workers and other prisoners against passive smoking is, of course, justified. However, this does not result in a total ban being the best or acceptable solution. The Government's proposal also states that this is a major restriction on self-determination. In such cases, the principle of proportionality should be applied, according to which the option that meets the lowest objective should be chosen, i.e. the one that is least in breach of fundamental human rights. Well, the total ban on the options considered in the government proposal is justified by the cover-up of the cells. I've been trying to figure it out. According to the Criminal Sanctions Agency, an I.D., which is accurate enough to detect even a small cigarette hen, costs EUR 300 — a relatively cheap cost of maintaining fundamental rights. In the other Nordic countries, it is possible to arrange for the smoking of prisoners at the same time as protecting bystanders from passive smoking. It seems utterly strange that this would be impossible in Finland and even in all prisons. At the same time, we have to remember that the Criminal Sanctions Agency has quite a few years ago. If it is now a question of not being able to organise the treatment of prisoners properly because of the lack of staff and resources, this is not an appropriate basis for fundamental rights restrictions. It cannot be justified simply by the fact that this option was chosen because it was the cheapest and easiest. Mr President! Just a few more words about health effects in the light of the study. After all, this government proposal suggests, as it were, that a total ban would also be the best option in terms of health effects for these smoking prisoners. There's no evidence of this. There is no evidence of this — I have spent the whole weekend reading through studies on the subject, and we do not have enough research on compulsory cessation of smoking to say that. It should be remembered that when we talk about prison conditions, smoking would almost always be stopped at the same time as substance abuse and possibly subsequent substance abuse treatment, i.e. the effects of smoking cessation should be considered in conjunction with the newly started substance abandonment process. Well, we know from the study that voluntary cessation of smoking at the same time when trying to get rid of other drugs is recommended in most cases when there is sufficient support, but not always. Even in these situations, when the person himself has expressed a desire to stop smoking in the same process, it may increase the risk of relapse in some situations, especially when the support is inadequate. We also know from the studies that most smokers, including most smokers, want to stop and that with sufficient support alone, a significant part of the health benefits that are now being pushed through by a total ban and, of course, the savings listed in that government proposal could probably be achieved. These voluntarily seeking to quit smoking are also the most likely group where it succeeds in stopping smoking so that some health benefits are available from it, because we know from addiction treatments in general that personal motivation is one of the key factors predicting the success of treatment. It was a bit of a shock to me when I read from that government proposal that at the moment there is no support in our prisons for stopping smoking. My point would be that if we wanted prisoners to stop smoking, they would first of all be offered that support and only then, once this has been established, would we consider whether this is an adequate measure, whether something else might be needed. Moreover, I am not so sure that what the government's proposal promises is indeed what is said to be sufficient to support the cessation of smoking in a situation where it is a target group such as prisoners, 80% of whom are those with substance abuse problems, and then there are also various mental health problems to a significant extent. Nicotine replacement products are promised free of charge for four weeks. Most people who quit smoking use replacement products much longer, and when we know that nicotine products are very expensive on their own, this does create a strong competitive incentive for the black snuff market in prison. In contrast to other countries, Finland’s tobacco policy has been characterised by the priority to tackle bans, and many countries are ahead of them. Instead, in these soft ways, in obtaining affordable nicotine products, in obtaining different forms of social support, we are far behind our control countries, and this seems to be emphasised here too with regard to the total ban on prisons. In my view, the best package at this point would be sufficient support for prisoners to stop smoking and to limit their sovereignty as much as possible by means of smoking regulations which, however, would allow smoking in outdoors or in tobacco booths specially built for this purpose.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u85	Mr President! I can well understand the concerns expressed by previous speakers in relation to this draft law, but I would like this proposal to be dealt with in committee without prejudice and not to be knocked out in the middle of a handshake. This, of course, is also generally linked to the reform of the Tobacco Act. After all, during the last parliamentary term in 2016, a comprehensive reform of the Tobacco Act came into force, in which Parliament approved the goal that tobacco and nicotine products will cease to be used in Finland by 2030. This too was an extremely ambitious objective, and I am sure many people thought it was unrealistic, but we have accepted this together in Parliament. That year 2030 is surprisingly close, and I think that this proposal, which is now on the table, is part of this: it is one step towards a smoke-free Finland in 2030. In practice, it would certainly become a problem in prisons that if prisoners were allowed to continue smoking outside, how often should they get to smoke? For example, twice a day or three times a day might be too few, and when I read these statements, in some cases prisoners would also like to smoke at night, that is, if you are heavily addicted to nicotine, you might need to go out for a cigarette often, and there might not be enough human resources to do so. Indeed, it is important that nicotine-dependent prisoners receive support if this reform comes into force and this law enters into force, so that they receive support for smoking cessation through both substitution products and possible support groups and individual guidance. After all, it would be a great advantage and a great health benefit for the prisoner if he were able to get rid of his addiction during his imprisonment. It is true that prisoners are largely intoxicant and mental health problems and smoking is perhaps one of the smallest problems for their own health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u86	Mr President! The ban on smoking in closed prisons is a very twofold issue and there is a surprisingly complex problem behind it. Firstly, exposure to passive smoking is a serious matter, it must not be allowed under any circumstances, but there are several aspects to this. Many prisoners in Sange are multi-problems even in psychosocial terms, and very many are deeply intoxicated. There are also mental health problems and personality disorders. There are many people with drug problems and those who are still in substitution treatment at the beginning of the prison sentence. In both cases, drug use at the beginning of prison sentences ends or at least becomes considerably more difficult. The replacement treatment is quickly driven down, which causes its own rather massive challenges. In these people, smoking is an essential part of their lives, and when it comes to needs, it often misses food and drink. Dependence is so deep. In their choice of addictions and problems, tobacco does not represent the greatest threat — it is more of a prerequisite for their survival. It must be remembered that 80 percent of the prisoners smoke and most of them smoke heavily. I dare say that the ban on smoking is even greater for many prisoners than the loss of freedom. This point is very often spoken of by people who have been institutionalized since they were young and for whom life is practically just moments between different prison sentences. It is very likely that the early stages of such a ban will cause significant disruptions and problems, and this is certainly something that cannot be underestimated. If we do this, there's gonna be a big, big mistake. In the interests of the safety of the staff of the Prison Service alone, particular care must be taken of the consequences and the resources needed to do so. We simply cannot throw a smoldering bomb through the prison door and just wish you good luck with it. It must also be borne in mind that tobacco will continue to be smuggled into prisons, just as everything else from drugs onwards, and tobacco will then become a very valuable commodity and a tool of power. There will be debt and the resulting multiplier effects from extorting violence. I see very clearly that drugs are becoming a much more interesting substance within the stone because of this kind of ban for practical reasons. I have carried out special checks in prisons to find illegal and prohibited substances and objects, and I can assure you that man is extremely resourceful when required, and strangely large things can be carried to prison from time to time. After all, tobacco is no different, but in this comparison drugs are a very much more cost-effective substance than tobacco smuggling, so in that sense too it may be very bad. It is a good thing that we have considered various ways of reducing the symptoms of addiction if this ban goes through, but it must be borne in mind that prisoners suffer from other addictions, as has already been mentioned here. Nicotine gum doesn't work at this point, and it doesn't even really patch a small wound. However, if this ban goes through, it is assumed that, with time, such a major change will eventually become of normal importance and will no longer cause a problem and symptoms as significant as it will be in the early stages. But without sufficient preparation for these problems, this can happen and there will be a big mistake. This must now be understood by all of us that what is being done is being done. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-21-ps-135.u87	Mr President! I would add that we all know how to live healthy: avoid sugar, avoid fat, avoid alcohol, stress, loneliness, anxiety, immobility and so on. But very few of us follow all these recommendations, even if it is likely to live longer and healthier. Yet, in society as a whole, it is not considered reasonable for the state to force people into healthier ways of life. Prisoners should not be subjected to any coercive measures other than those directly attributable to the sentence. In this sense, they have the same logic that applies to all of us. No one should come to me and tell me what kind of personal choices I make in my life on the grounds that by making another choice — that I am going to go to bed early this evening and not hanging around the Internet for a late night — I am likely to live healthier and a little longer. It is called individual freedom, and it is quite deep on the basis of the rule of law.
