ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u1	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 5. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Defence, the PuVM 1/2020 vp is to be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u2	Mr President! This matter was before us in the Committee on Defence and, at first reading, Mr Kiuru, among others, gave good speeches on this important issue. This is therefore a question of security of supply between the governments of Finland, Norway and Sweden, and Denmark has been involved in this as a whole. It is therefore a question of updating the Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement on Armaments. Mr President! The 2017 Defence Report stated that international cooperation on materials will be deepened, continued both between the Nordic countries, between the European Union and NATO and through bilateral agreements, and this is one part of this cooperation activity accelerated in 2017. In fact, Nordic cooperation and security of supply in the field of armaments has a very long and well-functioning tradition. The Government's proposal now under discussion will therefore deepen and improve the already well-functioning cooperation on security of supply between us and Sweden and Norway, and will also enable closer cooperation between the defence industry. When we discussed the matter in the Committee on Defence, we also wanted to note that we consider it important that, at a later stage, we should also: Denmark could accede to this Agreement. Mr President! This work started before that year 2017, when the Defence Ministers, by Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden in 2011, set up a working group to reform the agreement in force at the beginning of the 21st century to support cooperation in the armaments industry, and now this agreement is also in the decision-making process in our Parliament. It is important that we ensure our own security of supply, but, as stated in this report from the Committee on Defence, many things are such that we will not be able to cope with them alone in the future, and then it is important that this cooperation works seamlessly and effectively with our partners and friends. And, of course, one of the things that comes to the fore is, for example, this replacement of the Hornets, where the Air Force will have new multi-functional fighters, and at the same time there will also be the purchase of corvettes from the Navy, and for example damage repairs, maintenance of equipment in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u3	Mr President! Security of supply in both defence equipment procurement, energy, food and medicine is an extremely important factor, and it is therefore good for these defence equipment procurements that Nordic cooperation is also progressing with regard to this agreement. After all, this Nordic work in our defence has been vigorously promoted as one element, both in this security of supply and in our defence capacity as a whole. The fact that we keep our own affairs in order here in Finland and strengthen them with this Nordic cooperation strengthens the overall security that Finland is able to provide in this Baltic Sea region and globally. It is important that this cooperation on materials should also take concrete steps forward. Common suits are on the way, but it is also important to have concrete cooperation in these other procurements. Patria is a central display of such Nordic cooperation in the field of defence. After all, less than half of it is owned by Norwegian Kongsberg, and this cooperation has produced good results in the preparation and maintenance of defence equipment. Both of these support each other in a strong way. All in all, it is good that this cooperation should continue at a concrete level by means of agreements, and this updating of the Armaments Agreement is a very important part of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u4	Mr President! As the previous two colleagues said in their own speeches, this cooperation to improve security of supply in the field of armaments and also between the Nordic countries is very welcome. It is worth remembering that we, as northern states, have naturally been working together for decades, for centuries. We know each other well, we are democratic states, and our technologies, which are used in different contexts in Finland, Sweden and Norway, are about the same. We are high-tech countries, we are very well-managed, for example, in information technology and related matters, and then we are democratic states and open societies. I have often wondered in previous years how little, after all, of the cooperation between the Nordic countries... Of course, there's always been a lot of it, but we need to take it to a new level now. Such cooperation issues, which are currently being discussed here, I welcome very warmly and encourage these actors who are taking these projects forward. I wish them tenacity and strength that such good things progress all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u5	Mr President! In fact, at first reading, this cooperation agreement, which is important for security of supply, was discussed here at the beginning of the week in the field of defence equipment procurement. Between the Nordic countries. In this debate, I particularly pointed out that it is important for us to work together, and it is certainly the easiest way to work together in the very kind of material procurement that colleagues have mentioned here, for example in relation to accessories, such as ammunition or similar so-called bulk goods. But then the more you go into the national defence capability, deep - headed systems, and the like, the customization of them and their vulnerability are of the order that, in these situations, very rarely can you make such joint acquisitions. One of the things we have from the past is this helicopter acquisition in memory. We know that it was then that we were going to be able to make purchases together, the Nordic countries, but then how could it be when it was tailored to the needs of each country itself? In this respect, it is good to remember that these are specifically suitable for certain types of material procurement and will certainly continue to be able to cooperate more and more, but then we will certainly have our own national needs and sophisticated customisations, where it is still necessary to maintain our own special needs and requirements.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u6	Mr President! That was where I admired Mr Heinonen's speech when he was able to put his words properly in such a way as to reach the Meteor missiles. In this context, it is good to continue with this issue, namely that many of us are very pleased with the increased cooperation between the authorities and in this case with regard to security of supply and, in particular, the joint development and industrialisation of defence equipment. However, it must be pointed out that yet a very large proportion of the defence forces' key materials have been made elsewhere than here, and, in a way, the increase in this cooperation should not be overemphasized in that sense, so that we are still and will continue to be highly dependent on Western cooperation and other development of the arms industry. In this context, I hope that we will be more prepared for similar cooperation agreements for others than for the Nordic countries alone. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u7	Mr President! I should like to thank Mr Heino. He gave a good speech. There's a few things I'd like to raise from there. Bring our own defence equipment company Patria, which is part-owned by Kongsberg, a Norwegian company: we must make every effort to ensure that the domestic defence equipment industry remains in Finland and ensure its position, because in the event of a possible crisis, it is the only sure thing we can rely on then. The second thing I want to add to this is the issue of the ban on lead. The only way to ensure our own cartridge production in Finland is to ensure that we do not go along with this ban on lead, but to ensure that in Finland the production of the cartridge is maintained in Lapua. It is also part of our security of supply. With regard to security of supply, I would also like to point out that when there are a number of different projects in Finland where biofuels are being developed and planned, I also think that some of these could be connected here under security of supply, that even in the event of a crisis, we also have our own biofuel production, that our equipment will be able to move. In my opinion, the defence equipment industry creates work in Finland. It is also an export industry, and we must take care of it and ensure that it is able to operate in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u8	Mr President! This is, in itself, a very important section and a proposal, given what Nordic cooperation can achieve. We have been determined to increase cooperation between the Nordic countries. And now, in the autumn, our foreign ministers agreed to jointly produce the Stoltenberg second report. This proposal is due to be submitted to the Nordic Foreign Ministers in mid-2020 and is expected to do so. In view of the Stoltenberg 1st report of 2009, the proposals that have been made and made there have almost all been implemented — well, now it cannot be said that everything, but through what has been done, has also played a role in the way forward over the last ten years. I can see that the report was very successful at the time, and we have also increased cooperation on exercises and rescue measures. And now, what has now been under discussion will certainly contribute to the work that has been done in the past. We in the Nordic Council have long missed this second report, and now we finally get on with the talk. And I hope this report goes even further than Stoltenberg's one in his day. In the past, however, we have had civil security and also civil defence in that debate, but there is still room for further cooperation in the various supply of goods, security of supply and forest fires still seen during the summer, all of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u9	Mr President! The Nordic countries, the EU countries, NATO are natural areas of cooperation for Finland when it comes to defence, as are, of course, bilateral agreements with countries that think the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u12	Mr President! To follow up on the previous speech: the President of the Republic is also the Chief of Defence, and it is natural and very good, as Mr Kiuru said there, that the President also sets an example for all of us. I myself have been allowed to work in the Defence Committee for ten years now and to follow this security of supply debate and decisions on security of supply, and I welcome this joint Nordic agreement and planning to develop a common security of supply. But I would also like to point out that cooperation between different actors is not enough, however, for a country called Finland, and we need our own defence industry. Ensuring its own defence industry is part of national and also Nordic security of supply. For us to be able to promote Finnish security of supply, the Finnish defence industry, the 7,000 jobs and the strategically important sectors in Finland, active measures are also needed, and I hope that the Government, with the support of Parliament, will be able to contribute to ensuring that Finnish expertise in the defence industry continues on this peninsula. However, as an example, as a memory of history, I would also like to say that there were not many years since there was a debate, for example, in the political debate, in the public debate, about ensuring Finnish gunpowder production and there were different plans in the air. However, in accordance with the report of the Parliamentary Committee on Defence, Finland kept its own gunpowder production in Finland, in its own hands, which is now a joint venture between Patria and the Norwegian operator. Here, too, I would encourage you to see as far as possible the coming years before making decisions, at least in the direction of taking this kind of expertise out of Finland. Cooperation is important, but Finland must have its own expertise.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u13	Mr President! Nordic cooperation in defence matters is, in my view, a very important issue, and it is easy to agree with the good speeches made by many colleagues, many others. Security of supply issues play a very big role in credible defence and defence, even when it is seen that the traditional line between war and peace is becoming increasingly blurred and that more and more warfare is so-called hybrid activity, influence, for example, on information networks, cyber-influencing, or influence energy supply, influence opinions, people sharing, people sharing and, as it were, weakening the enemy. Warfare, defence technology, too, is tilting all the time, including all the latest technology and it-side, and what mankind is developing is immediately included in the weapons. In order for us to have a credible defence capability, we need to be particularly at sea and in the air that, if necessary, we will be able to cope with the crisis and the worst moment. I also attach great importance to cooperation between the Nordic countries because all of us The Nordic countries are geopolitically in such a position that, in the event of a possible conflict, our fate would probably be the same. It is difficult to imagine that if some form of aggression or someone were to become a party to the conflict towards a Nordic country, other neighbours here in the Nordic countries could be excluded from it. The values of our societies and the functioning of our society, what we have in view of foreign policy and the state of the world, are also very much the same. And I think we should look in the direction of Sweden and the other Nordic countries without prejudice in future expensive solutions, in future defence solutions, and consider what solutions we can find there. However, we are very similar, and our neighbours share this same thinking about a welfare society, the rule of law and democracy, all of which, unfortunately, at the moment seem to be under some threat in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u14	Mr President! Of course, security of supply is important on the civilian side as well as in the defence sector, but I do wonder at this rate, which was so extraordinary last season in particular. We have one trilateral cooperation agreement and eight bilateral agreements, and I am not terribly convinced that an agreement with Japan, for example, would be terribly important for our security of supply. At least I don't have that kind of view. This report by the National Defence Information Board was very noteworthy. When it is this kind of long-term and time series analysis, then it was stated very clearly that the closer this partner becomes in the field of defence, then the more important it is perceived, which of course is natural. I can’t help remembering when Mr Kiuru said that countries with the same style — I guess there was a “style ” for what you used. I don't know if the style is the same as the value. Last season, when the then Foreign Minister, Mr Soini, said in January 2017 at the Ambassador meeting that Finland and Turkey share common values, I hope that today we will not hear much of that kind of talk. In other words, these forms of cooperation must not be too naive, but must be seen in a healthy way in the national interest. So do all the other countries, so do those partners. When, for example, this case of Crypto AG was reported, where Sweden knew for decades that the Finnish administration used a encryption system that had been deliberately opened and where the United States was in a leading position, Sweden knew this but did not remember to inform Finland. Yes, this protection of cyber security is even more important today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u15	Within the time available, I will give the floor to Mr Hoskonen. The debate will then be resumed the following week, if there are any speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-06-ps-19.u16	Mr President! I would also like to say that, when Finland, Norway and Sweden have a common land border and we have worked very closely together in all sectors of society for industry and the defence industry in general and for armaments, so that such cooperation across the land borders, that the immediate neighbours cooperate — and the times of crisis in the world always come at a fixed time — we will not be able to do anything as a small country — it will provide us with a very good guarantee of good cooperation in the years and decades to come. Of course, this cooperation must be fostered and promoted as best we can, including among the countries mentioned just now, by all the Nordic countries. Nordic cooperation has been very lively and strong between these countries, and in this respect I hope that it will be further strengthened because it is an extremely important issue for the security of supply in Finland.
