ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u1	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u2	Mr President! I will make the motions for statements by the Assembly: 1.Proposal for a statement: ‘The Commission requires the government to engage without delay in action to “ 2.Proposal for a statement: ‘In order to prevent the use of illegal labour,the Commission requires that government measures be brought These are the draft statements by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, which I shall make in this speech. I myself would have liked to see Mr Leppä, Minister of Agriculture, still present in the Chamber. It would have been important to hear what the situation of this seasonal workforce is at the moment. In fact, this temporary amendment of the foreign law does not actually address this serious problem in agriculture and in greenhouse and horticulture. All in all, this affects about a thousand people, and experts have found quite widely that perhaps just a few of them through this... [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u5	Mr President! This is therefore a proposal which is one of the many facilitations and cost increases of immigration policy which the government has brought to this Chamber during this corona epidemic. There'll be more next week as soon as we can get it out of the committee. As has been said many times, this amendment to the Aliens Act will not be beneficial to the availability of agricultural workers or to the provision of food, and that is not even the case in this proposal. It is not based on actual data, not on statistics, not on economic calculations, not on international comparisons, and no impact assessments have actually been made. On the basis of what the proposal is based on: on the one hand, it is based on a green ideology, on the demand to facilitate all forms of immigration and, on the other hand, on the illusion that the voter of agriculture in the centre will somehow benefit from this. The last is a political dream that harms our country, the latter is simply nonsense. So the Finns of Peru suggest that the bill is rejected. As the situation in our food supply, self-sufficiency and agriculture is really important for the Finns, I would also like to make the following statement: ‘The government requires that there be no delays in measures to increase the dependence of Finnish food production on foreign seasonal workers and on domestic labouravailability in the country,forest,garden and fisheries sectors.’
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u6	Mr President! This law would only apply to applications submitted before the entry into force of the law or to persons who submitted an application before the entry into force of the law, and because for a few months new applications for asylum have not actually come into practice and because this qualifying condition under the current law usually lasts for three months, the majority of the smaller number whose employment this amendment is intended to promote would soon be freed or has already been freed from the current legislation, i.e. this will in practice have no effect at all. We have stressed, at various stages of this issue, that instead of doing this kind of work, the government should try to push the many-fold larger number of asylum seekers who already have the right to work, not to mention the even larger number of people who have arrived in the country over the years on humanitarian grounds, which already have a residence permit and the right to work included in it. With these people, the employment rate is negligible. Less than one per cent of the most important refugees from the countries of origin from Iraq, Afghanistan and Somalia are currently engaged in agricultural-related tasks. This is not the solution to the problem. Instead, this is intended to help people who have received a negative asylum decision to remain in the country, and this is in line with the overall agenda of the Greens on immigration. Without further ado, Mr President, I support Mr Purra's motion for rejection and statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u7	Mr President! At the very beginning, I would like to support the proposals made by Mr Heinonen for the statement by the Assembly and perhaps bring to this debate a great deal more than a lot of talk about security of supply, particularly in agriculture and gardens, that security of supply also affects other sectors. For example, the service stop at the Porvoo oil refinery has now had to be phased out for a very long period of time because of the lack of seasonal labour and, of course, it will then also suspend its operations. It is therefore worth looking at this whole issue much more broadly, and that is why our first statement, which calls on the government to take action, to take effective action to increase labour supply in key areas of security of supply, is absolutely essential. I hope that the government will take this issue seriously so that it can be resolved as quickly as possible, both in agriculture and in other areas that are important for security of supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u8	Mr President! The law now being adopted is part of a package of measures to alleviate the labour shortages caused by the corona epidemic, particularly in berry and vegetable farms. This law is therefore important for the small person in order to safeguard Finnish food production. It has been difficult to get seasonal workers to the farms during the epidemic. Farms now need help from legislators in order to secure the production of Finnish food even under exceptional circumstances. The aim of this law is to dismantle asylum seekers so that asylum seekers who are awaiting an asylum decision in Finland can work in sectors that are suffering from acute labour shortages using seasonal workers in agriculture, forestry, horticulture and fisheries. The presentation has been praised by farmers in Lappeenranta, for example, where the reception centre of the state is located in Konnususuo. In Lappeenranta, entrepreneurs and the reception centre have worked well in advance to identify suitable and willing employees for work on the premises. Based on the surveys, it has been found that many asylum seekers have a high motivation to work. It is therefore only sensible to extend the employment opportunities of asylum seekers at a time when farms need additional labour in order to secure Finnish food production. This interim bill now under discussion is good in two directions: more asylum seekers will be given the opportunity to work instead of inactivity, and farmers will be relieved of their seasonal labour shortages. As the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry points out in its opinion, although the proposal alone is not considered to be of major importance to the labour market in the whole country, it may be of great importance to individual operators in the sector. That is why it is also worthwhile to introduce this method. Mr President! Like the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Administration considers it necessary, in the exceptional circumstances of the corona virus, to pay particular attention to the conditions, health and safety of all seasonal workers working in the sectors referred to in the draft law, and to their supervision. The committee also stresses the need to further explore further ways and measures to ensure the workforce in sectors which are critical for security of supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u9	Mr President! The importance of seasonal labour is very important in Finland, and that is why, of course, although this is now a temporary amendment of the Aliens Act, this does not solve the actual problem very much. But it is very good that this issue has been raised, this importance of seasonal employment in agriculture and also in forestry, because, in my own view, efforts should be made to increase the appreciation of the work at hand. It reflects something that these farms, plant gardens and others have not been given the labour force, although we do have the labour reserve. But with regard to this problem itself, there have been other things, as it were, harmful, because in previous years these workers, such as those from Ukraine, have been quite standardised and the same people have been working on the same farms. Every year it is the same problem that the premises cannot change employees and the bureaucratic problems are big, so this should be taken into account in the future, because this seasonal labour force is compulsory in Finland as well as in Europe, and in order for these jobs to be done, it is the removal of bureaucracy that is the first objective, not so much the amendment of the foreign law. But it's too bad the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry isn't here. He could have estimated when Finland had to compare other countries. The need for seasonal labour in Europe is quite great, and if I correctly remember these figures, then Germany, France, Spain and Italy have a total of 800,000 seasonal workers every year doing these jobs, and Finland's need, around 16,000, is quite small. So in the first place I was a little surprised that if there was trouble for one reason or another to get these foreign seasonal workers to Finland, why on earth did the government usually have to negotiate some boundaries when it should have left that the maximum amount should have been taken into Finland and not set limits in accordance with the corona rules and carnage. That's what I'm surprised about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u10	Mr President! Last season, the government — in the early years, when the Finns of Finland were in the government — made blackmails on immigration policy. They were done with the unanimous support of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and even then, for example, it was clear from the Greens that this is not a pro-human rights policy, even though the Constitutional Committee, for example, had stated that these are in line with the Convention on Human Rights. Now, as Mr Purra has pointed out, it is under the guise of a corona that ideological proposals are brought out in the same wake. At the same time, there is talk that we should in future have people on farms and on forestry, horticulture and fisheries. I wonder how it will improve, for example, the appreciation of these farms, that we think that we are going to assume that, for example, people who are illegal in our country work there. It is not a permanent solution; it is actually a rather absurd solution. I have often wondered about the fact that we have a rule of law that many people here want to talk about, and general law-abiding, and Finns are quite law-abiding people, as we saw, for example, on the basis of the recommendations of governments: many people, on the basis of recommendations, acted in a sensible way in their day-to-day manner without having to introduce strict regulations in everything. How does this affect general lawfulness? There is a group to which it is stated that well, you have an expulsion decision, but you do not need to follow it, because we have in Finland such a system that we have people who do not have to comply with valid decisions. I now think, for example, that I would be given a decision by myself, or anyone else, that the court would become a valid decision that you would have to pay EUR x. Can you say no here and say I'm not paying? Look, you're just gonna pay. So I'd have to think about what this looks like and sounds like and feels like. At the same time, however, we have a lot of things going on here, along with the corona. The government is preparing to improve legal assistance for asylum seekers, which, during the last period, was withdrawn from the legislation in the sense that there should be no group with better legal capacity for legal aid. We also have this al-Hol situation: people are coming to us at the moment, especially adult people, even though we are in a very tight economic situation. I warmly support this statement by the Finns and would like us to develop this appreciation for rural and rural work, including by learning it at school or by encouraging economically to accept it. This may not be the best way, but of course it is the ideology of the Green Left.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u11	Mr President! Firstly, I support these statements by the Assembly, which have, of course, already been supported. But most of all, I asked to speak on the subject of the speeches made by the Finns. I must say that I think it is a good thing to recognise that the impact of this proposal is marginal in all its aspects and that my sense of justice does not fit in with the fact that if you have received a negative asylum decision, then you have the right to work. You're on the line to get out of the country, aren't you? But otherwise it is quite impossible to understand this argument by the Finns on this issue of work-related immigration, because you are not only opposed to the work of asylum seekers, but also to the arrival of these seasonal workers from abroad, if I have understood correctly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u24	Mr President! It seemed a little like Mr Satonen was already in the mood on Friday and focused on something other than this performance. But when there was talk of berries, sour, said the fox. As far as the employment of Finns in berry farms and others is concerned, it is often a question of salary. I understand perfectly well that there is a need for more workers and others, but this proposal does not discuss it at all. It is often the case that immigrants who come to Finland as immigrants receive housing, receive various benefits, receive food and something where Finns are not in an equal position. There in Halikko, Matti Möttönen does not receive the same benefits as many other visitors are given. Then, of course, there is this purchasing power, so it's different now if you come from Thailand than from the Haliko. In many cases, these workers have also been doing this for a long time and may be more professional than the factors we focus on during the summer. We can't have professionals like that all year round who would do this. You have to understand these equations. As far as this proposal is concerned, it has already been mentioned that this has no more than perhaps such a permille class effect, and the main reason for this is that immigrants are concentrated in large cities. For example, there are huge numbers of immigrants here in Helsinki. Still, you can't get them to pick berries. When around 50% of the employment rate here in Helsinki is in Iraq, for example, we should primarily help those who have legally come here. This proposal takes away the credibility of the entire asylum system when it comes to making illegal acts legal. If you have received a negative asylum decision, you should leave the country and you will be converted. Those who have received a temporary residence permit must also be expelled, but who will no longer be granted it. In other words, it must now be understood that this has nothing to do with the asylum process and with employment on berry farms. This is a purely ideological policy — Mr Heinonen mentioned such a green card. And it certainly seems to me that when the colors of the parties in the Green League and in the centre are the same, it seems the same policy here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u25	Thank you. — The situation is now such that there are five minutes until the end of the sitting and four speeches. In order to deal with this issue, it will be five minutes, or we will resume the debate on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u26	Mr President! I'm trying to be quick, the big committee is really waiting. This is a very good proposal, and the debate on acid berries here sounds more like an ideological debate than talking about this proposal. I would just like to make a few comments, particularly on the points raised by Mrs Mere. A third of those who received a negative asylum decision last year who applied for a work permit received it, i.e. they have the support of the Labour Market Authority that they are needed to work here in Finland. We have our permit processes, both the asylum permit process and the work permit process, so long that we have people in the country who have developed their Finnish language skills and who have already been employed. They may have received a negative asylum decision, but they are waiting for a work permit to continue the work. This makes it possible now in this one area for this summer. A very simple and necessary decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u27	Mr President! For Mr Hopsu's information, if these people were very relevant to the labour market, they would probably be the first to apply here for a work permit, and then it will be assessed whether these sectors are part of the availability test and where in Finland. If so, then naturally this will not progress. If they don't, they can stay in the country with a work permit. But when those who have received a negative asylum decision have remained in the country, including through such cleaning rings, it is nothing more than a means of circumventing asylum law. Then, to Mr Satonen, to be more specific: In this case of Helsingin Sanomat, which you have referred to twice in this Chamber,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-05-ps-88.u30	Mr President! It must be noted that the temporary amendment of the Aliens Act is a relatively heavy measure in relation to the intended benefit and purpose. But when Mr Satonen mentioned the extent to which this phenomenon is occurring in Central Europe, I repeat — and I think I am quite right — that 800,000 seasonal workers are needed each year in Germany, France, Italy and Spain. In other words, seasonal workers in Europe are a normal phenomenon, and without it the work would not be done, and at least I personally appreciate these seasonal workers, no matter where they come from, from Central Europe or Ukraine, to Finland. Of course we know that this is a gap in living standards, because there is a level of purchasing power for money here in the country where I suspect that many Finns would also go to work in the field and elsewhere if they received a salary of EUR 15,000 or EUR 20000 per month. But the purpose of my speech was for Mr Junnila, who said that this was up to the salary. I believe that it is partly up to the salary, but the general phenomenon in countries where the standard of living is rising is that only certain jobs want to fail and then do it with the workforce that is available in one way or another, and that is what has happened in Finland. My own speech pointed out one thing that I personally think it is important that in Finnish society there should be a significant increase in the value of the work being done at hand, because that too must be done by someone — and it is only partly a question of pay, partly a question of culture and appreciation of work, and it has really changed in Finland over the last 20 to 30 years. In other words, at least myself, as a craftsman, I also appreciate the work at hand and I hope that in society too this appreciation will rise.
