ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u1	In order to reduce additional mobility and ensure safety distances, laptops using the representative application will be introduced in the Chamber today. Work stations shall also be located in the sub-chambers and upper-chambers of the Chamber, as well as in the ministerial and official courts, so that, if necessary, all 200 representatives may be present at the same time in the Chamber and attend the sitting. Portable computers replace fixed representative panels. The representative application corresponds to the functionality and layout of the representative panel. The functions of the representative application are used by mouse or alternatively by keyboard buttons. The instructions for use are divided by a perm next to the machines and are also available in the gallery. There are IT support staff on site. If you have any challenges with logging in, I'll ask you to raise your hand. The speeches will now be made from a safe place or a podium. When speaking to the press, all the speeches will be made from the nearest podium. I would remind you in particular that the microphone may not be opened until I have given the floor, so do not open the microphone when another representative speaks! I would ask the representatives to pay attention to hand hygiene. Handcrafts and individual wipers are located next to all the doors of the plenary room, among other things. I'll remember to log out when you leave the computer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u2	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Finance, the Administrative Committee, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Education, the Economic and Social Affairs and the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. After presentations by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. After the group talks, the one-and-a-half-hour debut will follow, divided into two 45-minute sections so that the groups can exchange debators halfway through the debators. Other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Up to 4 hours are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u3	Mr President! The restructuring of social and health care services, i.e. more familiar social welfare reform, has become familiar to us all over the past 15 years. I believe that this is an expected moment for many in this house and outside the house, especially in the field of social and health care. It is my great pleasure and honour to present to you today the proposal of Prime Minister Sanna Marin's government on this reform work. The aim of the reform of social and health care services and rescue services is to reduce welfare inequalities and health inequalities, to secure equal and high-quality social and health care and rescue services, to improve the availability and accessibility of services, to secure access to skilled labour, to meet the challenges of societal change and to curb cost growth and to improve safety. So those same goals throughout the years are still valid. [Sari Sarkomaa’s interlude] In order to achieve these objectives, both structural and substantive changes are needed. The government's proposal today concerns the first of these. Restructuring is the first and necessary step towards modernising social and health services, and the proposal has reduced all excesses in relation to previous proposals for social welfare reform at this stage of reform in order to get this through Parliament now. Currently, the responsibility for organising social welfare and health care is 195 municipalities or joint municipal authorities, the organisation of emergency services at 22 rescue services. The resources and expertise of operators of different sizes in the organisation of services vary significantly. The equality of residents in access to services is not always realised. The disparities between population groups and regional health and well-being remain high. The Government proposes that 21 welfare areas be formed in Finland, to which local authorities and joint municipal authorities would transfer the tasks currently under the responsibility of social welfare, health care and rescue services. Based on the separate solution of Uusimaa, Uusimaa would have four well-being areas. The City of Helsinki would still be responsible for organising social welfare and health care and rescue services. In addition, the HUS Group would be responsible for organising special medical care in Uusimaa. The responsibility for organising health care would be divided between the welfare areas of the region, the City of Helsinki and the HUS Group, as defined in the Act and the Arrangement Agreement. The areas of well-being under the proposal would be established as soon as possible after the adoption and adoption of the laws. Emergency services would be a separate sector in welfare areas, in parallel with social welfare and health care. In the rescue operation, the service level in the welfare area should meet national, regional and local needs and should be prepared for accidents and threats in the area. The activities of nursing districts and special care districts would be transferred to well-being areas. Similarly, the curator and psychological services of education services and school health care services would be transferred to the responsibility of organising welfare areas. Both welfare regions and municipalities would be responsible for promoting well-being and health. The organisation of environmental health care would remain for municipalities at this stage. The highest decision-making body in the welfare area is the directly elected regional council. From a democratic point of view, this is an improvement in relation to how services are decided in many places in the current situation, bearing in mind that we have health care districts, welfare associations and municipalities to do and decide on these tasks at the moment. The welfare area would be managed in accordance with the welfare area strategy adopted by the Regional Council, and the regional council would also decide on the organisational structure of the welfare area. Mr President! The welfare areas proposed by the Government would be established as soon as possible after the entry into force of the Act of Enforcement. As a first step, the temporary administration of the welfare districts and after the start of the regional councils elected after the regional elections, the welfare areas would prepare the organisation of operations and the transfer of personnel and assets together with municipalities and joint municipal boards. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance would hold annual negotiations with each welfare area to monitor, evaluate and steer the organisation of social and health care and rescue services in the welfare area at a strategic level. Government steering would therefore be of a strategic nature. The welfare area should draw up an annual investment plan, the adoption of which would be decided by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of the Interior. The approved investment plan would be a prerequisite for new investments in the welfare area and for the disposal of assets. The Social Welfare Act would provide for responsibility for organising social welfare and health care, promoting well-being and health, safeguarding local services and linguistic rights, co-operation in welfare areas, and guidance and supervision. The Civil Protection Act would lay down the responsibility for organising, developing, steering and supervising the rescue services. The proposal would define more precisely the responsibility for organising well-being areas. The welfare area should have sufficient competence, capacity and capacity to assume its social and health care and emergency services responsibilities in all situations, including disturbances and exceptional situations. The welfare area should have the professional and other staff required for its activities, as well as appropriate premises, operating facilities and other necessary operating conditions. The welfare regions should also have sufficient production of their own social and health services, which would not, however, require the maintenance of overcapacity. The organisational responsibility includes responsibility for statutory tasks, decision-making, control of production, coordination of services and the exercise of authority. The welfare area would also be responsible for preventive social and health care, education and research activities, preparedness for emergency conditions and disturbances, and security of supply. Five co-operation areas would be established for regional co-ordination, development and co-operation in social and health care, and four-yearly co-operation agreements would be drawn up by the well-being areas within the co-operation area. The reform would not change the existing system of freedom of choice. Under the current Health Care Act, a resident would be able to choose the public health care unit from which he or she will receive his or her services. He could also choose, under the conditions laid down by law, which special care unit he would apply to. I would like to say — because I have heard another argument — that the requirement for organisers to provide adequate services is not ideological but a starting point for constitutional rights and for the opinions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This is good in this room to remember. The current multi-production of social services would therefore still be possible and proposed. The proposal would specify more precisely the general conditions for the use of social and health care purchasing services. All services which are not specifically prohibited by law could be purchased from private service providers. Service vouchers can continue to be used for the provision of services. The welfare area could provide social and health services to its customers based on a contract from a private service provider if the provision of services was necessary for the proper performance of the tasks. Services provided as a purchasing service should be of such content, scope and quantity as to enable the welfare area to carry out its organisational responsibilities in all situations. The welfare area would control the private service provider and also the contractor. A private service provider would contribute to controlling its own subcontractors. Subcontracting will therefore continue to be possible. The draft law on enforcement would provide for the nullity of contracts for the purchase of social and health care services in certain situations and the possibility for welfare areas to terminate the contract and for the possibility for private individuals to receive compensation. Mr President! I am pleased that, despite the corona crisis, we are still on schedule not only for structural reforms in social and health care but also for substantive reforms. The development of services has started with the development funding of each province, specifically through the Future Social Centre programme, and has amounted to as much as EUR 70 million for this year. The programme will provide more flow to further processing of welfare operating models and practices. The projects focus on improving access to services and low-threshold services, in particular mental health services and prevention and early support are the focus of the content reform. 120 million have been allocated to development projects in support of restructuring, which involve a large number of activities such as information management and information systems development. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u4	Before we go to the round of group talks, I will give the two responsible ministers five minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u5	Mr President! From the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, this also means the disposal of a historic large store, the transfer of property from municipalities to welfare areas. There is also a need for a temporary administration to prepare for this. As far as financing is concerned, the government's proposal provides for an important financial base and a balance between municipalities and regions, as well as transitional adjustments limiting changes. Personnel will be transferred to welfare areas with their duties for the whole of social welfare and health care and rescue services. In addition, curators and psychologists move from school. In addition, support personnel who carry out at least half of the tasks of the social welfare services will be transferred to the welfare areas. Staff are transferred by handing over the movement, i.e. as old workers, while maintaining the current conditions of employment and service. The assets are transferred from joint municipal authorities of hospital districts and special care districts to welfare areas with their assets and debts, and the loans that are now are granted a state guarantee. The movable assets and contracts at the disposal of municipal and joint municipal authorities’ social services, as well as the personnel’s holiday pay debt, will be transferred to welfare areas without compensation. The well-being area rents existing properties from municipalities for at least three plus one year. The Government's proposal also includes compensation regulation for real estate: if the property that the welfare area does not need after three plus one years costs municipalities more than 0,5 percentage points of tax, they will be compensated — or as an addition if the municipal tax rate is more than 2 percentage points higher than elsewhere. As much costs and income are transferred from municipalities to welfare areas. The current estimate is EUR 19.9 billion. Central government shares amount to EUR 6.45 billion and tax revenue to EUR 13.4 billion. These will be further refined on the basis of the annual accounts for 21 years and the budgets for 22 years. The funding of municipalities will be evened out, because even though it has been taken into account at the level of the whole country, the differences between municipalities are large. In the year of entry into force, the balance change shall be limited to zero in relation to the previous year's situation, followed by a transitional period of five years plus minus EUR 15 per inhabitant per year, followed by a maximum of EUR 60 per plus or minus. The financing of the welfare area comes first from the state and is general. From the beginning of 23 C.E., the funding of the welfare area will correspond to the amount transferred from the municipalities in the field of social protection and civil protection. The National Institute for Health and Welfare estimates that the increase in the demand for services is about 1% per year, which is taken into account in this Government proposal. In the first years, 0.2 percentage points will be added to cover these costs. However, the increase from the third year onwards will be limited to 80% of this advance funding. Social reform will balance public finances from 2030 at the latest, depending on how the cost of change can be managed through the implementation of the reform. The financing of the welfare area depends mainly on the need for services, more than 80 per cent, in addition to conditions, 4 per cent, population, 15 per cent, and 1 per cent by the coefficient of well-being and health promotion. The financing of well-being areas will also be evened out, which is a different model than the previous one, with a transitional period of seven years, unlike the municipalities' five years. And this is asymmetric, so that after seven years the minus can be no more than 100 euros, but the plus can be 200 euros. Municipalities and regions are in a good phase of transition to this preparation. This still needs to be widely shared, especially in those areas where there are several players at the moment. After all, many regions have already started off on a joint municipal assembly basis, but unfortunately this is not the case in all regions. The preparatory body will be brought together from the regions on the basis of local actors, so that in the future the responsibility will be very strong for the current municipalities at this stage of change, and the State will reimburse them for the interim costs which have already been included in the supplementary budget for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u6	Mr President! The Government's proposal to organise the rescue services has now finally progressed to parliamentary scrutiny. A long and carefully prepared legislative package is one step closer to the goal. The preparation schedule has been very tight and has required a number of hours of work and a lot of stretching. I would therefore like to extend my warmest thanks at this stage to the ministerial colleagues and the services, who, under demanding circumstances, have been determined to prepare a comprehensive package and have also supported the government's proposal to organise the rescue services. The analysis of the operating environment for rescue and civilian preparedness was recently published. The report well describes how in a complex world of interdependencies we live in and how rescue services are affected by global phenomena such as climate change, as well as national and local issues of exclusion and disadvantage. These challenges, which undermine everyday security and even cause serious social disruptions, indicate why it is necessary to reform the rescue services as well. The aim of the rescue service reform is to improve the safety of people and communities and reduce accidents. In order to develop the reliability, quality and cost-effectiveness of our services, operations and service planning must be based on continuous foresight and analysis activities, knowledge-based management and close cooperation between different actors. In addition to the development of services, our goal is to build a system in the reform of the rescue services that will enable us together to respond to the challenges of today and tomorrow all over Finland. In the Government's proposal, the rescue services in the area under the responsibility of the municipalities would be transferred to the responsibility of the welfare districts and the City of Helsinki from the beginning of 23. At the same time, the rescue measure would be transferred to the State budget. As mentioned earlier, the rescue services will remain separate, in parallel with the social welfare and health services. The reform requires the reform and strengthening of the national strategic guidance, management and control of the sector. This is intended to ensure that people are provided with uniform rescue services throughout Finland. Collaboratively defined performance requirements and performance capabilities build a nationally harmonised basis for planning operations. This will allow, for example, the concentration of rescue resources in long-term disturbances or major disasters such as power cuts or forest fires. There is also a need to invest in the skills and training of rescue personnel in a completely new way. I would like to highlight one more aspect in particular in relation to the organisation of the rescue services: It is the importance of financial resources for action and access to people's assistance. Adequate funding will safeguard the resources of the emergency services and the Emergency Response Centre and thus the ability to respond to security and assistance needs. Adequate resources are also a guarantee for the safe performance of work tasks. In the event of an accident or even the occurrence of an accident, everyone must be able to rely on rescue services to be provided quickly, professionally and equally throughout Finland. Possible major accidents can be effective when the rescue services also perform emergency and emergency response tasks. The reform will ensure that the safety of all is better ensured. This cannot be done without sufficient resources and efforts to develop the activities. The reform of the rescue services is being prepared ahead of services and people's safety. When society changes, the rescue must also change. Thus, for each of us, there will also be a rescue service in the future. Mr President! Unfortunately, I have to go to the EU Council of Ministers on this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u7	We shall now proceed to the group debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u8	Madam President! ‘Now I know what well-being country is,because I’ve been in this cell. “ This is what author Kari Hotakainen said when, as a result of a serious car accident, he had been treated in the ICU at Töölö Hospital. Why do the daughter of a mountain counselor, a diploma engineer or an immigrant mother in Finland give birth in the same hospital? Because it is the safest place in the world to give birth and at the same time cost-effective. This is a universal, universal service system that we all share, a regional emergency hospital. The aim of our Social Democrats is to make health centres, care for the elderly and all social and health care services as good as central hospitals and our best social services are now. It's the red thread of the whole social welfare reform. Many ask: ‘What happens to me when you are in the health care district? “ 3.7 million Finns do not exist. We aim for the same good care for all Finns in health centres as occupational health care — even better, in fact, because we want suitable special services to be passed on to customers or patients. Several experiments have shown that referrals to special care have decreased when the patient is already being treated at the basic level, with the support of specialists. We have the most responsible and well-trained social and health care staff in the world. That's our strength. But we have a problem with the system: access to a doctor, access to a dentist, quality of care services for the elderly, services for the disabled, levels of substance abuse care or the functioning of child protection depend on the municipality in which a person lives. I have been involved in dozens of discussions where decision-makers in a small municipality have had to describe in detail that the reason for the sudden increase in hospital district billing in that municipality has been the four limb stroke of a young moped boy, the birth of a small premature baby or the occurrence of leukemia in a housewife. In any other country in the world, health care funding is not municipal, as in Finland. The local social and health care system ran its course years ago, but replacing it with a better system has proved difficult. When have we forgotten the terms of the constitution, when have any political or economic passions come to power? Now, however, this reform is being carried out. It is in no way incompatible with the immediate and rapid development and improvement of services. Both are needed: restructuring and the development of content. We are doing the social welfare reform because child protection, substance abuse care and services for people with disabilities would develop and be of high quality regardless of their home; because our elderly people would be able to have safe services at home and in institutions; because everyone would be able to get quickly to a publicly funded doctor and nurse; because dental care would also be available to everyone; because our hospitals would remain at a high level and be able to operate without continuous municipal financial abuse. In the social reform of the Marin government, private service providers and large-scale third sector producers play a key role, but the funding is public and democratically decided on. Such a multi-producer model is the best possible. It is not a market model tailored to large companies, it is a human model. In 23 years welfare areas will receive the same funding as municipalities have used in the regions. From then on, funding will increase every year. In 29 years it will be 7%, or EUR 1.5 billion in real terms higher than in 23. In addition, the State is responsible for 100% of the financing of new statutory activities and an inflative change in the cost level. A total of EUR 200 million — i.e. 1% of the total — is passed on as a result of differences in disease between regions. In all regions funding is growing, in others it is slightly slower and in others it is slightly faster. We will create a new structure that will guarantee high-quality and equal services. We call on the opposition to join us in this reform work, which secures a person's daily life, does not leave him alone with need, problems and illness.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u9	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The aim of the reform of social welfare and health care is to ensure equal and high-quality social and health services for all Finns and to reduce differences in well-being and health. The reform also aims to ensure the availability of skilled labour to social and health services, to meet the challenges of ageing and falling birth rates, and to curb the increase in costs. Social reform has been taking place in Finland for years. The previous reform model fell during the debate of the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee, as it was not seen to guarantee citizens equal rights to health care services, its financial base was inadequate and the objectives of controlling the costs of 3 billion were uncertain. The final blow to the war, however, was the news of serious neglect of care for the elderly. It is questionable whether there has been a change in these key criteria for the better. Is the problem of care for the elderly solved now? During the last term of government, the binding mandate of the demarches in the opposition at level 0.7 experienced inflation and the government introduced a level of 0.5, which is slowly rising. However, the actual problems were not solved by this nurseship, but often there is only one nurse on the night shift. The Sote reform also includes the objective of providing a guarantee for the treatment of care without haste, which guarantees patients the right to access a healthcare professional within seven days of the assessment of the need for treatment. The government promised too much when they said the patient would get to the doctor faster. Like a nurse’s measure, the treatment guarantee was reduced to access to a doctor’s office instead of a doctor’s. Mr President! There are major problems with access to treatment now, but also in the future, when waiting lists of treatments delayed by the corona epidemic are being dismantled. The organisation of emergency care has been compromised, and the waiting lists are already extensive. The sustainability of municipalities and hospital districts is also at stake in the economy. When the people are disciplined by interest, health care reaches a crisis point where other diseases remain undetected and untreated. People's operating hours are even being postponed for years to come. Even after the result of the election was confirmed, the then Chairman of the Social Democrats and the Government Confessor, Antti Rinne, promised that social work would be done together with other parties on a parliamentary basis. But what happened? However, all the key decisions of the wars were taken without joint preparation — on the basis of political choices, without listening to experts and without carrying out impact assessments. Committees were set up for regional tax and regional administration, with very weak starting points. How can the committees take decisions and policies on taxes or provincial administration when matters have not even been dealt with in Parliament and no expert on the subject has been consulted? These committees were left with the role of rubber stamping only, when major policies were made in advance in the government. Local services are important for people living in Finland. The transfer of social responsibility from municipalities to provinces must not be used as an excuse for the dismantling of local services. In Sweden, practical experience has shown that centralisation of services does not automatically lead to quality improvements or cost savings and that it is more important to follow standard procedures for treatment defined by a university hospital rather than a large volume. We Finns require the maintenance of local services, and the level of service needs to be clearly defined. In a country of long distances it is not right to run an elderly person or a sick person hundreds of miles away from home. You can't take care of old people anywhere near here. The Finns believe that care for the elderly must remain within the territory of municipalities and within the responsibility of organising. The supervision of the care of the elderly must be put in order, and supervision must be carried out by means of care units. The voices of the family must be heard, for example, by various family members. Older Councils and Councils of People with Disabilities must be widely involved in decision-making. Solving the problems of informal care and harmonising the support system at national level would naturally be part of the social welfare reform. It is particularly shameful to have a mini-competitive approach to services for the elderly and the disabled. It's like they're being raced at an auction where the lowest bidder wins a man. I don't want the nursing business to be an auction business. The Finns of Peru demand that mini-competition in services for the elderly and the disabled be stopped. The key problem with the whole reform of social security is funding. Good government, you are about to give the EU recovery package billions of money needed to repair social services. Finnish social welfare money is given to foreign citizens in other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u10	Mr President! This regional model presented by the government does not solve social and health care problems. That's what's adding them. [Interjection from left] It is clear that social and health services need to be reformed. We know the reasons. The population is ageing and the need for services is growing. There is no access to the health centre, and no one gets better in lines or broken service chains. Services place too much emphasis on heavy repair services instead of prevention and early support. As a result, expenditure on social services will increase sharply. Combined with the challenges of public finances, the equation is absolutely unsustainable. In the 21st century, these problems of social and health services have been repeatedly addressed through various massive administrative reforms, without success. However, the history of social reform is not just the basis for anything, especially bad reform. Reforms must be made for the future. Mr President! We have in our hands a pure reform of the administration. This bill here does not bring any new nurses, social workers or doctors. In addition, the costs will run away. Instead of curbing the growth in social spending, the government’s proposal accelerates them. According to a recent estimate by the Ministry of Finance, the government model will cost the first 15 years cumulatively more than if nothing were done. The government's social welfare bill has a cost accelerator instead of a cost brake. This is not the way to solve Finland’s problems. Mr President! The proposal also presents significant new risks. It contains a number of entries which restrict the use of non-public service providers and make it difficult to organise services appropriately. This is the wrong way. In order to ensure good social and health services, we need the skills and resources of the public sector, businesses and organisations alike. In the opinion of the Assembly, the most important thing is not who provides the services, but the fact that the services are available. If healthy competition is limited without need, the production of services will be concentrated and reduced in quality and availability. Above all, it's out of people. The impact of the reform on municipalities is also unsustainable. Good government, in practice you are destroying the potential of cities by undermining their income funding and their ability to invest. About two thirds of municipal tax revenue is exported, and the debt related to their income threatens to double. One might ask which entity in Finland of the future is able to make investments in vitality — a serious question. [Aki Lindén’s interlude] Mr President! Government reform does not strengthen local democracy or self-government, but takes power further away and concentrates it on ministries. The same model is adapted to the whole country without recognising the diversity of regions. In the opinion of the Assembly, there is another way to develop social and health services: from the bottom up, building people's needs and the strength of the regions as a starting point, and there is no need for massive administrative reform with new levels of government, especially with regional taxes. Significant local social reforms have already been carried out in many regions. From earlier periods of learning now, it would be wise to support regions in this spontaneous development. Mr President! More than 800 parties submitted their opinion on the government's social welfare reform. Despite widespread criticism, the problems of the social welfare proposal were not much addressed. The troubles of the field went to deaf ears. Is this how you take forward the social welfare reform that will affect the future of Finland for decades? When this reform proposed by the government does not succeed in curbing cost growth and does not improve access to treatment, one has to ask why it is being done. Why will the additional cost of billions of dollars be tied to the construction of government over the next few years? Why does the government not take the employment measures it has promised to finance the improvement of people's services? I think the answer to this headlessness is ideological. In the cow shop, the SDP wishes to concentrate its services on the public and the centre receives the provincial administration and the regional tax. The Coalition Party will not accept this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u11	Mr President! The Government and Parliament are faced with demanding tasks. We have to get people to work, we have to put the economy in order and we have to make reforms. This is the only way to secure basic services for Finns in the future. Sounds like a lot of people I know. The current method of organising social and health services has proved to be too vulnerable at the latest during this pandemic. However, the Constitution obliges all Finns to guarantee social and health services on an equal and equal basis, regardless of their place of residence. That's why we need to do the social welfare reform. Mr President! There has been a consensus on the importance and objectives of reform across party boundaries. Fourteen years ago, the Vanhanen Government brought the Paras-project to Parliament, followed by several proposals for social welfare legislation that have stopped in Parliament. The governments that have promoted the reform of services and the transfer of responsibility to the provinces have alternated from one parliamentary party to another. The need for reform has only increased in these years. If we cannot do this reform now, we will run out of money and inequalities between people and regions will increase. That is why we must act now. It is also a question of the credibility of decision-making. As MPs, we are increasingly receiving messages about the problems of care for older people, the burden of child protection, the worsening of illnesses in the waiting queue, the difficulties of recruiting professionals and the urgency of nurses and doctors. It will be unsustainable if public health care is undermined and health insurance is seen as the only solution to secure services for itself and for children.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u14	Mr President! Few structures attach as much to a person as they do to social work. However, our speeches sometimes seem to forget that there is more to the social welfare system and, in fact, much more than the health centre network to which we apply for a nurse or a doctor. Sote is protecting our children. It is about caring for mental health and supporting the ability to work. Sote is about securing housing services and supporting a support network. War is the prevention of exclusion and care for those close to you. It is about strengthening the quality of life and safeguarding well-being. Sote is a hand offering when your feet are no longer carrying. It's all about social security when it's doing the right thing. Sometimes I feel like we're talking about the whole thing, but we're talking about it half-heartedly, without even thinking about how big it really is. Social and health services are responsible for safeguarding human health, well-being and life. It can be said that without functional social and health services there is no welfare state. Getting such a large system to function properly is not easy, yet each one of us knows someone to whom it is vitally effective. When we talk about the war, we talk about such a large and multi-branched entity that it is hard to imagine. No wonder too many people currently disappear into the pits of social and health services and those who need help do not always find their way. This reform will enable us to reach each of them. When we build new things, we have the opportunity to fix what does not work and change the system to work in such a way that help can be provided when it is needed. Sote may seem distant if its services are only needed when you become ill with the flu, but it does not seem distant when you need its services in order to live. In our speeches, social media is divided into terms that we use repeatedly. We are talking about equality and equality, but what are they in the end? We're talking about welfare and security, but are we investing in it? We're talking about prevention, but does it happen in people's everyday lives? Mr President! Many people wonder whether the reform of the social welfare structure is too expensive. It is true that social and health services pay. But it must be remembered that they should pay. However, by rationalising service structures, we can influence how much they cost. At the same time, we are at the heart of the issue of how to dismantle treatment lines. It must be understood that the limited resources of the wars must be distributed equally, not evenly. Service structures are best known not only to users but also to service providers and personnel themselves. In the midst of this reform, it is absolutely essential to involve and listen to them. The staff is a group of people who are responsible for our well-being every day. These workers are the foundation and foundation of the entire swamps, and therefore their survival and well-being must be ensured in the future. Mr President! When we talk about such a huge reform, it is unrealistic to assume that it is ready at birth. Work on the reform of the social security system in Parliament is only starting now. Great reforms are always a challenge, and this reform must now be tackled with courage and ambition, but also with the ability and willingness to listen and hear, for rarely, if ever, are we so close to the core and life of human well-being. It is time to stop thinking about how to lower the thresholds between different services and people’s lives. Instead, it is time to consider how to remove them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u15	Mr President! In Finland, a poor man dies about ten years earlier than a rich man. You may have to wait more than a month to get to a health centre doctor, even longer to go to the dentist. There is not enough resources for preventive social and family work, and the need for repairing services is growing. Many municipalities expect a fall in special medical care with fear, and too many municipalities have outsourced social welfare services to health waste. Although Finland’s social and health care system is one of the most effective in the world, it needs reform. The reform must be carried out in order to secure services for all Finns. The municipal-based service system is no longer able to do this, as many municipalities are shrinking and ageing and the money is running out, while the service needs become more complex, technology develops and the skilled workforce becomes a bloody competition. Mr President! War reform is being done for people. We need larger regions than municipalities capable of providing services to their residents, and we need a financing model that ensures that the services that people need everywhere in Finland can also be provided. The interest situation has strengthened the view that a simpler system and stronger organisers are also needed for exceptional situations. All parties, in their turn, have tried to reform the organisation of social protection and civil protection services into larger regions and bringing together basic and special services. The need for reform is therefore obvious. Continuation of the current system is not an option — or is an option only if one is prepared to accept the inequality of services and the uncontrolled privatisation process. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fail to do this. Mr President! This government is in a position to carry out the necessary reform. Previous attempts have created a picture of where the constitutional requirements and political realities go. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs' demands for democracy, financial adequacy and adequate public service production have been sought. The reform is more limited than the previous ones. A politically important separate solution for Uusimaa has been turned and the number of welfare areas has been set at acceptable levels. The most important thing for the Left Alliance is that the reform will help to secure effective and more equal social and health services for all in the future. We consider it important that, for the first time, the law provides for adequate own production of social services, i.e. putting an end to uncontrolled privatisation. Of course, services provided by companies and the third sector will continue to play a role and multi-disciplinaryism will not be eradicated. The Left Alliance sees that profit-making is poorly suited, for example, to care for the elderly and child protection, and we hope that in the future welfare areas will also increasingly restore the production of social services for their own work. Mr President! By all means and by all means — it is the principle of the social welfare funding model. For the most part, the national funding model based on the service needs of the population is a condition for reducing health inequalities. Financial calculations are, understandably, an issue of conflict. However, they are still changing, and the future development of the region's population and service needs and the national social welfare fund will have an impact on the financing of each region after the transition period. In particular, Parliament would like to consider whether the basic principles of the financing model are fair. As in the last parliamentary term, the proposal does not include a financial cutter of EUR 3 billion. In the future, the amount of money spent on services will be the same as it is now, and funding will increase with the growth of the need for services and cost developments. Cost efficiency will be encouraged by providing 80 % of the funding corresponding to the growth of the demand for services, and an integrated service system will enable efficiency. The government is committed to preparing a regional tax alongside state funding, and the Left Alliance demands that this also be done. On the one hand, when entering into force, the regional tax will increase economic independence and, on the other hand, a stronger accountability to its tax-paying residents. Mr President! We need to reform the war, but it's not going to be a summer alone. The Left Alliance considers it extremely important that care guarantee legislation should soon be brought to Parliament. It allows us to speed up access to basic health care, both in mental and physical distress. We see that the customer fee law that has just been adopted is a step in the right direction, but the way of reducing customer fees must be continued, because getting the service that a person needs must not depend on the thickness of the wallet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u16	Värderade fru talman! Här är det nu, det mastodontiskt stora vårdreformspaket, som den är gången ska ros i land. Biffen med hela social- och älsovårdsreformen är att skapa integrale social- och älsovårdstjänster och fungerande vårdkedjor. Den ska underlätta klientens öjlighet att genast få rätt vård då bradden på sakkunskapen ökar i och med att social- och älsosidan är under samma tak och specialsjukården i momma organisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u17	Madam President! The reform of social security has been going on for 15 years. The fragmented and multi-step structure of social and health services and the growing need for services are a difficult combination. Reform is necessary and urgent. The differences in well-being and health between population groups must be narrowed and equal access to services guaranteed. The original objective was to integrate social and health services on sufficiently wide shoulders in shared management and budget to shift the focus to basic services, early intervention and prevention. The later social problems or illnesses are addressed, the greater the need for expensive special services, demanding special care or care for children. The change in the age structure of the population resulting from the decrease in birth rate causes a long-term sustainability gap of billions in the Finnish economy as the demand for services increases and the population of working age decreases. Social reform would be the most important solution to the sustainability gap if individual structural reforms were successful. The new name given to the Sote regions, ‘well-being areas’, does not change the fact that some of themare not Some areas of well-being are smaller in population than our medium-sized cities, which are no longer considered to be able to respond effectively to the services of their population. The reform should have been prepared on the basis of social and health services, not on the basis of political relevance. In addition, some Finns, 1.7 million The population of Uusimaa, or one third of Finns, would be excluded from the integration of basic and special services. Five regions would provide basic services there and special services would continue to be HUS. Insufficient funding is a key problem in the proposal. The National Audit Office has expressed concern that the proposal does not contain strong incentives that would guide regions to curb cost growth. The reform of the structure alone does not guarantee a shift from expensive specialised services to basic services, but it also requires operational reforms: more rapid access to medical treatment, a therapeutic guarantee for mental health and substance abuse services and comprehensive rehabilitation to improve the ability of older people to function and reduce the need for institutional sites. Skilled doctors, nurses and social workers must be taken care of — even now they are struggling to get qualified staff. In the future, the main responsibility must rest with the public operator. However, welfare areas must be free to decide how services are produced: in their own production, purchasing services, service vouchers or personal budgets. It is not even theoretically possible to manage service production without companies and the third sector. The activities of public company-based producers across regional borders must also be safeguarded. A total of 18,000 companies with 80,000 employees provide social services. Many of these are local small and medium-sized enterprises. This potential is not to be driven down. Reform should not be done in such a way as to break what works well. Cooperation with a private service provider has produced genuine local services, jobs and vitality. Overall outsourcing has also resulted in significant cost savings in some places. The Government's proposal on dismissals from outsourcing agreements already concluded is problematic from the point of view of the legal protection of service providers and contract law and the protection of the assets of the Constitution. Mr President! The Government also decided to implement the regional tax. With the policies of this government, we will soon have four tax authorities instead of two tax authorities — the municipalities and the state — taking EU taxes into account. The more tax authorities, the more taxes. Even now, the differences between citizens in terms of taxation are significant, but they would increase as a result of the provincial tax. The biggest taxes would be paid there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u18	Mr President! War reform is a parade of ideologies. For the left, it is a place to put private people on their knees and concentrate the services on the public side regardless of costs. The city centre will hold on to its old power with all its strength and think that the map exercise in the welfare areas will give them more time in the areas. Nothing good comes out of this barrel of wishes. The euro is not so indifferent as long as you get debt and take care of ideology. The biggest problem is financing. The same pot is being redistributed. Either way, there's gonna be some area where Black Pekka's gonna be stuck in his hand. Now it is Uusimaa and Helsinki and other growth centres. The population alone and the number of older people are not fair indicators. In addition, a situation arises in which the same decision-maker can be in municipal and regional councils as well as as as a representative of parliament. Whose interest is he in then? Harmonisation of staff salaries will also be costly. The government takes debt so that the wrists are forced, and constantly invents new spending targets, but the basics are forgotten. You could even invest more in health and social issues, as in other Nordic countries, but you have to build incentives and invest in prevention. Now we look into the rear-view mirror, split the money on the basis of old expenses and plan new, expensive structures. The government takes debt and divides and backs. There are no incentives or responsibilities in the new regions, i.e. when the money runs out, when the government takes debt and distributes money to the regions. While the tax model for welfare areas is still being planned, there is only one thing that is certain: overall taxation will rise as a result of this reform. It's just a question of how much. The attitude of STM and Minister Kiuru towards private operators is completely incomprehensible. His associates have concluded multi-annual, well-functioning partnership agreements in the regions, which Minister Kiuru now wants unilaterally to terminate. The quality and efficiency of services are not so important as long as private people are removed. Mr President! People who need treatment, lawyers get rich and taxpayers pay. Now look what happens in Savonlinna when its central hospital was given ten years to live. What happens after that and where do the residents get treatment in distress? The centre's mumbles about the multi-producer model and keeping the tax rate under control are mostly pathetic. In this model, Kepu thinks he's keeping his place in the municipalities, but what do you think of taking the money and power from the municipalities to the cities and the state? Minister Saarikko, how long are you going to keep this front up? Health can also be better promoted and invested in rehabilitation and social security in anticipation. A trained woman lives healthier and ten years longer than an uneducated man. This is the kind of statistics we need to be able to deal with. The government spends about EUR 800 million a year just to carry through the reform, but there is no money left for dental care. I wonder what's more important. When it-projects in the regions operate and discuss with each other, they are already out of date. The quality of special care must remain at the forefront of the world. Five university hospitals and about 15 central hospitals and the quality of their care need only be able to find the money, even in living there. The prognosis is bad. Minister Paatero said something about the EUR 0.5 billion potential for savings, said it might be on the upper deck, and if there is any savings, it will be in the 30s. How do you know that? In the world of Paatero, action will be more effective, even if no action is taken. But here are the figures, Government: last year, municipal social security expenditure increased by more than 5 per cent, and now that the whole pot is 20 billion, it will be 33 billion in 2030. And the familiar problems of durability, i.e. the sustainability gap and dependency ratio, still weigh on this like carbon monoxide. Mr President! Something needs to be done. Listen to the sound of reason.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u19	Now we move on to the first 45-minute debate, and I would now ask the representatives to stand up and press the V button to reply if they wish to speak in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u20	Mr President! This social welfare package is a massive administrative turmoil that does not cure or bring any more services to children, young people, mental patients, the elderly or many other groups. This is an administrative reform that takes almost a billion dollars — and all of this is just administration. This will lead to an insurance-based health insurance system in Finland that will increase the division and inequality of citizens. This legislative package will lead to a significant concentration of services and a reduction in services for smaller municipalities and suburbs. This bill will lead to the collapse of local democracy and the funeral of many municipalities. This bill will destroy the status and cooperation of university hospitals with universities. This social package will wreck student care by transferring curators and psychologists from the school environment to this massive administrative price.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u21	Madam President! Of course, actions are more important than fine words. And it is now significant that services can be reached without any difficulty with the reform. Health stations are a major straw, and local services are guaranteed there. However, it must be borne in mind that this reform does not guarantee that those health centres will remain in place for years to come — not for years to come. Then when you're looking for savings, you're afraid of where you're going to get them. What if it's the health station that's close to you that's gonna shut down? Who decides that? With the reform, that health station is no longer decided by its own municipal decision-maker, but entirely elected by new decision-makers, and those decision-makers may not even come from every municipality. So the decision-making process is moving much further away. When decision-making is further away, of course, even the most negative decisions seem to be easier to make. Now that we have just learned that, for example, these premises will be rented for four years,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u22	Madam President! This reform has been going on for more than ten years, and it is great that the government has now brought this proposal, even because of the interest rate. These reforms are difficult, but they are necessary. We know that now almost 300 municipalities are responsible for organising these services, and it is essential that we put these on wider shoulders and remove these barriers and put people at the centre of the world. Let me raise two points: First of all, it is good that we are now catching up with this social welfare business and that the welfare regions will be able to catch up with these overall outsourcings and be able to strengthen the position of small businesses and organisations in their production on a regional basis. The second is this funding. In my view, it is important for every person to understand that funding will increase in all areas of welfare today. The speed with which it is growing depends on the number of elderly people there, and we want to ensure that these services can be provided for everyone. It is a pity that the opposition has already condemned this proposal when we should now join forces to build it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u23	Madam President! It can be said that the progress of the social welfare reform is a very good Christmas gift for us Finns. Social reform affects everyone, just as has already been well mentioned in this debate. It is not only about how a person can get to a doctor or receive other treatment, for example after an accident, but also about what kind of daily life our children, our elderly and all of us can live. It is also a question of where we can afford to put money and where we cannot. I would like to thank the government and all those involved for the progress that is now being made on this cost-absorbing social reform. Mr President! Finland is a large country, and in this brief speech I would like to draw particular attention to this — and ask the minister responsible — how the government seeks to ensure that the funding of the regions is as stable and predictable as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u24	Mr President! Every reform should bear in mind the practical benefits it has, and now that we see what is currently wrong with the health system: access to a doctor, access to treatment. This could be done by changing the health care law, tightening the treatment guarantee, increasing the number of doctors. There is no need for massive reform. Cost control, ladies and gentlemen: according to your own estimates, this reform will weaken public finances for the next 15 years, i.e. this will weaken the welfare society for the next 15 years. So why on earth have you made such a reform, 1600 pages, which weakens the welfare society? [ Response requests from the left and from the centre group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u25	Madam President! If you listened to these group talks, the group speech by the Finns of Finland went through the problems that we currently have in our social welfare and health services. That speech did not touch much on this social reform. The aim of this social reform is precisely to remedy those problems. [ Arja Juvonen’s interlude] In fact, the group was the one who most strongly criticised and attacked this reform, and I can see why it will do so if we compare it with the reform of the last period. There are two main reasons for this: firstly, this reform does not have an automatic cutter of EUR 3 billion for social and health services, and secondly, it does not provide the keys to private buzzers, private health managers, but takes care of public interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u26	Mr President! After all, this is a fundamental difference in thinking between the coalition and the Left. We think that the welfare society will be strong in the future. Services are provided to people only and only if the economy under it plays properly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u32	Madam President! Many experts have said that over a ten-year period, costs amount to hundreds of millions of euros a year. What do you say to this? However, some of the miraculously dim ones are being developed into a county tax. Now tell us what it means for Finnish citizens. We can't let the taxes go up. We're paying enough. The True Finns demand that this war be prepared carefully, not by throwing or slobbering or shouting, and we cannot support the solutions behind which experts do not stand and whose effects are not adequately assessed. We are very concerned about mental health services and we are behind the therapeutic guarantee, and we hope that — and we hope that you will also listen there in the box, ladies and gentlemen, when you are spoken to — the therapeutic guarantee will be linked to this social welfare reform. And there's concern about the nurses. The Finns have presented a special programme of measures to get nurses to work
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u33	Mr President! I am sure that the employment reforms mentioned by Mr Häkkänen will also have to be carried out, but we are now discussing social reform. [Sari Sarkomaa’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u38	Mr President! The Coalition Party makes so many arguments that, of course, it cannot answer all of them, but let me take one example: Mr Häkkänen spoke about this integration and gave a good example of Kymenlaakso, as it is. In ten years, we have created eight such joint municipal social services. They have a total of 950,000 inhabitants, which is one sixth of the Finnish population. At this rate, we'll never get the whole country like this. In particular, the coalition-led regions have been those where this integration has not progressed. Now we have to do it with the force of the law. The other is the appeal to this doctor. In ten years, we have a reduction in the number of health centre visits to the municipal system from 10 to 6 million. Especially in my hometown, which is also the hometown of your party president, Orpo, there is no way to get to a health centre doctor. So we have to put this thing in order. And orphans continue to quote from the previous reform times: when we make such a common system,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u39	Mr President! There's a lot of claims here now. I'll try to answer them quickly. First of all, Mr Lindén, when you referred to what has happened in Finland: If we look at the past years, the most movement has been made by the Best reform, because we create incentives, criteria that take place in the municipality. Trust the municipalities, let them build up their cooperation. The second question, these savings of EUR 3 billion: Even in the last period, it was not the aim of making savings of EUR 3 billion right away, but of curbing the increase in costs and thereby making it sufficient to finance services in the coming decades. That's what we need for this too, responsibility on that side. Thirdly, the fact that we are moving ahead and others are seeking system and administrative solutions distinguishes the Coalition Party from the other parties. We want to believe that a person is the driver himself in his own services, trusts in his own active role and strengthens his influence, his access to treatment. Let's get going that way, not the administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u40	Madam President! Fine objectives are once again, but unfortunately these are not the means to achieve them. The two-layer system of social services exists and is getting stronger all the time, even after that, especially in Uusimaa. Occupational health care is well maintained, and most families with children have private insurance to get to a doctor immediately. In the congested waiting rooms of health centres or well-being centres, the unemployed, immigrants and low-income pensioners are then blubbering. At the same time, the tax burden of the middle class will increase, no matter what kind of social performance you may have in this Chamber. The basic problem is demographic and public economic. You don't move blocks to fix it. If we had employment and, for example, the prioritising of expenditure, we could increase social costs. We could raise our social costs to where they are in the OECD average. We also have demographic problems other than ageing, which are constantly increasing our spending. For example, a good study has been published on this subject today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u41	Mr President! This is something that Mr Purra has just raised. It seems that there is a certain categorical rise in the debate here with the Finns of Finland about the kind of public services people use and the kind of private-sector services people use.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u46	Madam President! Our parliamentary group wants to play a constructive role in this work this time too. One of the key issues, however, is securing local services. For example, in elderly services it is important to get close to a place of care and not to throw older people from one side of a growing area to another, so that relatives, such as a spouse, can look at their relatives. In this debate, I would like to say that social welfare reform can be done in such a way that at the same time services are improved and cost-effective if effective integration leads to a shift to basic services. Unfortunately, this is precisely what is lacking in this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u47	Mr President! Of course, there is a lot of criticism about the big reform, and I give it room for it in this reform too. But I don't think I'd like to see any threat pictures painted on this one. Everything you say will be ruined, and people will be forgotten. I believe that this reform proposal is also aimed at finding the people who have been forgotten so far, and with this forgotten people I have done my breadwork. This brings services close to people, integrates social and health care from a long time ago, brings them closer to basic health care and special care, and this, if anything, brings that service to those who have been less well off. And I cannot agree with the idea that human beings have been forgotten here. Rather, let's put an end to that constant brawl.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u48	Mr President! It would be strange if, after years of preparation and more experimental efforts, there were no models for us to present. Even more than a year ago, Minister, your party's then Prime Minister confirmed, just in line with your election promises, that 0.7's carership, a seven-day care guarantee and a thousand new doctors will come. [Left: Yes!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u49	Värderade Talman! Jag är glad över att regeringens proposition till social- och älsovårdsreform innehåller flera skrivningar som poängterar att service på svenska också i practicen ska erbjudas till medborgarna på samma nivå som på finska. Förslaget kommer att förbättra de tjänster som inte fungerar på svenska i dag. Sådana tjänster är bland you give barnpsykiatri och missbrukartjänster, men också grundläggande kundservice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u50	Mr President! In the past, the Coalition Party has been a key driver of administrative welfare reform in Finland. Now, however, for some reason, the rally has turned around, and instead of talking about the need for social welfare reform, the party wants to stay and wait for these creations of voluntary social protection areas. However, this road is complete. As has been demonstrated in many of the speeches, 15 years have been spent trying to get the balance right, and 12 years of these have been the responsibility of the government to carry out this reform. We can't afford to wait any longer. We need a social welfare reform, and it's time for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u51	Mr President! This is where Congressman Purra used... - Am I talking about my own place or this? [PresidentAnuVehvillainen : There you can speak. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u54	Mr President! Personally, I think that when we move from 195 organisers to 25 organisers, it will also make it more efficient and less bureaucratic. There will also be direct influence, regional elections, which makes sense. But I agree with Mr Ikonen that the Paras has been the best reform so far, because other reforms have not yet been carried out and only now will this next reform, which has been attempted for 14 years. And in view of the content of this, it is very far from the last parliamentary term as a so-called stripped model, where only the reform of the social, health and rescue services will be carried out. In that sense, I would like to see a sense of unity in this House, while, during the last parliamentary term, the present opposition parties were in favour of putting it together and thinking that, while there are certainly problems in the details, we now have the opportunity to take a step forward, and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u55	Mr President! This debate has again shown why it would be impossible to prepare for parliamentary war here, because we have one party that does not want to strengthen public services and which wants to save billions of its vital social and health services. That party is a coalition. The Coalition Party was turning the county war during the last parliamentary term, so your criticism of this government's provincial war, that is, the welfare zone war, is either empty talk or delayed self-criticism.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u58	Mr President! Here the government seems to see a contradiction between, on the one hand, the need to save money or the need to improve the production of services, and, on the other hand, the fact that this model of yours moves money very inefficiently within Finland. In other words, unfortunately, this model of yours, which seems to be the cow trade between the centre and then the left, is being achieved at the same time by increasing the sustainability gap and destroying the financial base of the welfare state. In other words, spending on social services will increase and, above all, focus on governance, rather than providing people with more services and access to them. On the other hand, you will also be cutting from those areas where children are currently no longer born in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u59	Mr President! First of all, I must congratulate the Minister on the fact that it seems that the reform of the social economy is finally going to take place. When you listen to the criticism of the opposition, which calls for more money with one hand and less money with the other, you cannot escape any other image than the fact that you have not been able to get to know this reform yet. I am surprised that, after 15 years of work, the coalition believes that reform is not needed and is sufficient only to leave people at the mercy of large private companies. The framework conditions for this reform come very parliamentaryly, they come from the statements made by the Constitutional Committee in the past, and they are now the framework conditions for this administrative reform. At the same time, however, we are moving forward with these substantive service reforms, which are clearly supported by you as well. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u60	Mr President! We are opposed to this social reform for two reasons: firstly, because it does not improve access to treatment, and secondly, because the increase in costs is not curbed. In other words, it is not responsible for either of the fundamental reasons why this social reform has been exhausted for 15 years. Mr President! Mr Sarkkinen said in his speech that it is not possible to do so. Yes, if we know that social welfare reform is a wolf at birth. And why is it a wolf? Among other things, because this is where we spend the funeral of the municipal self-government. This is a direct robbery, for example, from the City of Espoo. After this reform, we will be left with a small amount, less than one third of that tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u61	Madam President! Reform is necessary. The municipalities can't survive without it. I am bringing up the northern perspective, where there are long distances and fewer people, but there are children there too. There is a challenge to recruit workers — for example, the University of Oulu trains doctors, who then come to serve many people in the South. In order to facilitate this situation, a cooperative has been set up in the region, which is a pool of specialists in specialised medical care. However, this public-owned, non-profit cooperative is treated in the new legislation as a private sector service provider, although it has not been set up to attract patients to the region but to ensure access to services in its own region.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u62	Mr President! I do not know who dares take responsibility for this war, or is the consequences of this, too, to be put on the back of the corona in due course. Could that fair 1,600 pages have been written with Savo's dialect? Then it would be the responsibility of the listeners. No party or political party will accept a system in which their power would crumble. Clearly, with this social disaster, we are seeking power in the provinces. The applicants are not even ashamed of the public sector, which has been overgrown by socialism, and which is already being financed by additional debt. In other words, there are a lot more long tables to be paid by Finns in the provinces for different meetings. Mr President! This isn't going to be good.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u63	Madam President! At the moment, there are major shortcomings in the psychological services of social services, and the situation is being further weakened as the resources of education care are being transferred to social services. This cannot happen, as education services already work for understaffed staff. Preventive low-threshold assistance must be available from schools every day. It is good to remember that Finland has the most problems of mind in all OECD countries. These preventive measures would be more profitable in both human and economic terms than remedying the problems that have already arisen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u64	Madam President! The social reform currently under discussion differs clearly from the previous one in the fact that people have been raised to guide the development and renewal of the content of services. The development of services is being carried out at the moment, among other things, through the development of social welfare centres throughout Finland. The Sote Centres have a wide range of health services from basic health care to specialist medical services. The Sote centres have substance abuse and mental health services, physiotherapy, adult social work and various family services... [Ari Koponen opened her microphone and the speaker’s microphone closed]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u67	Madam President! The Coalition Party wants to ensure equal social and health services with tax resources for everyone. Unfortunately, the government's proposal for social services does the opposite. We should learn from the past. The government's social welfare performance is a hair hat model that should be placed on the shelf of history. Indeed, regional reform is a bad administrative reform that breaks more than it builds. It has become very clear here that this does not solve the problem of access to treatment. No improvement in the treatment guarantee can be seen or heard. This proposal does not provide a solution for improving treatment chains. I've read it carefully. This does not encourage more effective action, that money will be sufficient in the future, but this will cut. This will accelerate the increase in costs, but at the same time cut the money. For example, Uusimaa is being robbed, my own hometown Helsinki is being robbed. This bill of yours undermines the services of a million people. This is in danger of driving the whole system into the wall. I am suggesting that we reject this proposal and focus on it, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u68	Mr President! When you listen here to the speeches of the National Coalition Party and the Finns of Peru, there is a doubt that you have even taken a look at this performance at all. Something tells me you're reminiscing about your own show last season. You criticised the funding — you cut 3 billion. You took the regional reform very strongly forward. You took away a market model in which people would be completely lost. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u69	Madam President! Finns need better access to treatment and better social and health services, for example better mental health services for children and young people. Finns do not need a new administration, a new tier of government. Finns do not need new provinces alongside the old provincial alliances. Finns do not need a new election. Finns do not need new provincial councils, or new political institutions. Finns do not need new political secretaries, secretaries of state, or perhaps, in this case, regional secretaries serving these political institutions or their political groups. And Finns do not need new taxes and higher taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u70	Madam President! I hope that representatives of the opposition will visit the reality of those services in Uusimaa. The richest municipality in Finland Helsinki no longer manages to organise social services properly. There are more than 40 days of queues, and they're growing. The same problem is found in Vantaa, Espoo, Porvoo. The situation in Uusimaa is bad. A hundred small municipalities cannot organise these services at all. Even in those small municipalities, things are getting worse. Now is the last time to transfer those services to bigger shoulders. And it doesn't create more bureaucracy. After all, we now have regional councils, we have hospital district councils and we still have those municipal councils. Now we're uniting them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u71	Madam President! At this point in time, it is very difficult to say anything about that regional tax. Who knows what will happen to it in the end? Is there a county tax like this anywhere in the world? It's a fine mention of this old-age care. It has also been the number one theme for Finns last season, as well as local services. They say there's no choice. We still have the same option: Keep the services close. We have suggested that care for the elderly should remain there in the local area and in the responsibility for organising the municipalities. What do you say to this? Yes, people need familiar, good, safe local services. There has been a great deal of criticism here about the private service provider. I have been a night nurse for five years in the private service sector, 20 years in the public sector, and I must say that from an employee’s point of view both are good employers. We must also be able to take a constructive view of the fact that all actors provide good services, and that,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u72	There will be two more replies to this debate from among the representatives, and then ministers will be brief. Next, Mr Elo and then Mr Eestilä, and then the ministers' speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u73	Mr President! To begin with, Mr Zyskowicz, I believe I can say that the Finns need to bring the social welfare reform to the finish line. The objectives of the reform are important and worthwhile, and the reform is necessary for Finland as a whole, so that, as the population ages, we can take care of everyone who needs help. This social model has been built on the work of previous governments, and I also hope that this can be further developed and improved in Parliament in order to obtain the broadest possible acceptance. Cities have voiced criticism of the impact of the financing model, particularly on the vitality and ability of growth cities to invest. It is important that, in addition to reducing regional health inequalities, we ensure the conditions for growing regions to take care of their own inhabitants in the future. This also plays a major role in the well-being and health of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u75	Mr President! In my opinion, this government's social welfare model has one fundamental miscalculation, and that is that environmental health care is not now included in your social welfare. Environmental health care is already traditionally an essential part of primary health care and public health work. If a little background, why it has always been there: More than 60 percent of human diseases are zoonoses, that is, from animals to humans, and vice versa. For example, salmonella and corona. In all countries where these zoonoses are effectively opposed, environmental health and primary health care are under the same regime and in those countries where they are differentiated things are slipping in the wrong direction. I would hope that the government and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will correct this deficiency and take it there. It's not about the money.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u76	Now, until the end of this debate, two minutes for both ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u77	President! First of all, the Coalition Party presented here as a solution to the bottom-up social reform, and I think you are referring here to the possibility of continuing this current process. In practice, at the moment, cost development is very strong — as the current expenditure could therefore continue. There is also an increase in insurance-basedness, which means that the current expenditure could be continued. Tyres have become masters in some places, and thus the market model can continue to be supported. I believe that this debate shows that there were no other, concrete and realistic alternatives to the government's proposal on the opposition. I am very pleased that we have brought this reform here. It tells us what Mr Reijonen was actually talking about when he said directly that words alone are not enough, that action is also needed, that action is decisive. I agree. We have brought to you the wars that are to be carried out on this timetable here in the Chamber, and I am glad that we will finally be able to have a debate on what the others are proposing. I do not understand how the assembly is suggesting that there are not enough savings here, but at the same time you are suggesting that this solution will not be able to take care of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u81	Mr President! These parliamentary working groups, which have been set up at the same time, are finishing their work at the end of this year, and both of them will come forward. The starting point for this task force on taxation is that the overall tax will not increase, but the model will be considered, and this parliamentary group on possible cross-cutting regions will also have a question of environmental health care, and I believe that tomorrow will be the last meeting on which we will then see what the proposal is. To finance and to the question of how much or how little its need will increase: between 18 and 19, there has been an increase of 5.1%. Now, in this proposal, the estimate is 1% plus 0.2 to add to the increase in the need for services. In addition to this, there will of course be a change in the cost level, i.e. indexes and possible increased services. So we are talking about the current 5% increase compared to the 1.2% increase. These are the scales we are talking about at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u84	We are now entering the second stage of the debate, and the groups can exchange representatives in the Chamber. I would ask those of you who wish to participate in the debate to press the V button where you are.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u85	Mr President! This bill is definitely the best proposal for social welfare reform so far, but in spite of that, this needs to be looked at and looked at carefully during the parliamentary debate. On the basis of the consultation, the role of the organisations was clarified, but the committee still needs to look closely at how the organisations can operate in social centres and welfare areas. Without the preventive, health and well-being work carried out by the organisations, the formal social and health services will not survive this reform. The work of the organisations must be secured under all circumstances and the working structures for working together must be ensured, and the committees still need to look very carefully at whether this will be possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u86	Mr President! On the other side, it was suspected that the opposition was not familiar with this proposal. Yes, it's been read since the summer, but it's been turned here all autumn over and over and over and over and a little modified and modified, [HannaSarkkinkäytä] It was also stated here about the problems of access to treatment that this solution is now awaited for people to be admitted to treatment. It's not like this administration was giving you any treatment. It is produced by nurses and doctors and by the adequacy of doctors and nurses.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u87	Mr President! I am very much in favour of this negotiated package of social services, although I am sure that there is still room for slicing in the committee work and along the way. This package will improve the financing of services where the need is greatest. In the negotiations, the Centre was a strong defender of needs-based funding, local services and entrepreneurs in this model. I consider the financing model to be fair, because the money has been running out for a long time and the draining of basic services is an unsustainable path, as each of us knows in our own municipalities. Christmas and its message of hope really do get in the way of good, for here in the debat, it has been like a funeral. The Coalition Party has already proposed a rejection before a multi-stakeholder has even entered the committee. I very much hope that we will find a common thread to take this whole forward, perhaps with improvements, as the Christian Democrats have well put forward here. Finns need this reform,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u88	Mr President! In some way, we have now become such a mantra in Finland that social welfare reform is necessary. If we think that if we want to learn something from the past, then perhaps it is good to learn the very fact that we do not necessarily need such a massive administrative reform, but, in fact, most of these ideas that have been put forward here can be done without the new level of government. Secondly, it has been said here that this reform is going through. Where does the certainty come from? There is a very tight timetable and major problems, I believe even constitutional issues, yet to be resolved and the risk that this will again fall like a domino. That maybe it's time for an evaluation. We've been talking about a big line here. I would like to raise a few worrying details here: the role and specific tasks of university hospitals seem to have been forgotten in this reform. This reform also jeopardises the funding and independence of the rescue services. Has there been any thought about that? What about the corporate activities of university hospitals? Pirkanmaa Artificial Joint Hospital Coxa or Heart Hospital, which is among the best hospitals in the world
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u89	Mr President! I do not believe that any mantra is actually being said here in Parliament or in society in general, that reform is necessary, but that this is a situation that has been recognised by experts over the decades. When I myself have been in that Committee on Constitutional Affairs to draw up those statements along the way, all of them state that the reform of social and health services is necessary and urgent. Yes, it is based on this time-shared, shared need. As far as this funding is concerned, this model is based on the provision of funding to welfare areas as necessary,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u92	Mr President! Representative Salmon has told us about 15 times on television and several times in this Chamber that in the future this funding will go according to its illness and that it is not right. Now I have to ask Mrs. Salmon: how do you think today the state shares of the municipalities in the social welfare and health sector are being divided? On what basis are they distributed? More than 6 billion of them are distributed every year, as I recall, and when you suggest that there will be this need and disease and other factors in the future, do you think that today's government shares in the social welfare and health sector are not based in exactly the same way on this need-standardised basis for THL?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u93	Mr President! I have not argued in this debate that there are no elements in the system of central government transfers in the municipalities to see what the needs of each municipality are. But it is now a question of municipalities being transferred to larger regions, welfare areas, and it is now a question of financing them, of how these new regions will receive funding. That is what I wanted to explain to you that I think it makes sense to be given, if necessary,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u98	Mr President! Of course, this financial issue is very relevant here, and I think Mr Zyskowicz was quite right in that way that there are exactly the same criteria in the Act on State Aid for Basic Services. The difference now is that instead of 8 billion, 19.9 billion will be allocated on the basis of criteria, and that is why the criteria are much more detailed. First of all, there are seven major criteria — such as, as you know, population density and others — but the most important one is the 79% need for social and health services with 132 different variables, which reflect much better than the central government law on basic services at present in different parts of Finland. But one thing is easily forgotten: the most important factor in the future financing of a region is the change in population, not the criterion of population, but the fact that, as the population changes, people come to the region and meet the needs criteria.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u99	Mr President! Now it seems that much has not yet been said about family care, and informal care is an enormously important issue, and it needs to be taken into account more than it seems to be — I am particularly concerned about it. I am also concerned about the care of the elderly. Has the government thought that if this regime of care for the elderly were not taken so far, it would be left close to the nearby communities? Then there's a thing like this that these university hospitals really have to worry about. Now it seems that there is no guarantee that university will remain. It is important for universities and university hospitals to cooperate, but this has not now been ensured. How are we going to ensure this? There even leaders in university hospitals have been particularly concerned. In Kuopio, too, we are very concerned that we will have a university hospital in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u101	Mr President! In the minds of many citizens, the word ‘war-reform’is certainly formed if a project of unfavorable eternality — and not a miracle,because time hastened in this Chamber to It is quite worth mentioning that the government has been able to bring this 1600-page package of legislation to our attention during the year. It is a little strange how the opposition referred to the fact that something has still been crushed in the autumn, or what the term might have been. Is that not the purpose of the consultation to hear the people, to hear from different parties and to shape the proposal on the basis of it? It is good that this has been done, for example from the point of view of the role of organisations. I am also surprised by the opposition's argument that there has been some criticism of the private sector here. It is clear that we need a private sector and a third sector — we will not be able to do without them in the future. Although the main responsibility here is on the public side, it is quite clear that the private and third sectors are also involved in this model. Personally, I believe that we should be careful to ensure that their small companies will then also be able to manage these tenders and provide them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u102	Mr President! When you listen to this conversation, you feel that money is generated by printing and there is enough to tax it and you do it with box games, and that is not how it is. Why does the government not trust people, experts, a large group of experts and the work that can be done with incentives even now? There are so many good examples that have been set here. It does not need this administrative price or this major administrative reform. If we think about the 2020s, if we give clear incentives, trust municipalities, actors and people and think in the mode of cooperation, then we will have a situation where people will be able to get to care and not bounce them, and in the end it will be a guarantee that our common euro will be sufficient for good social and health services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u103	Mr President! Let's go over this again. This reform is the most important one and this reform is done because people get the social and health services they need all over Finland. The main objective is to strengthen basic health care and basic social services, which will enable faster access to treatment and access to services wherever necessary throughout Finland. Bringing basic and specialised services to the same organiser makes it possible to strengthen basic services, speed up access to care and streamline service chains and increase cost-effectiveness. The national financing model, on the other hand, ensures that there are conditions for the provision of services everywhere. Mr President! Although restructuring must be carried out, we also need to develop the content of services alongside them. Improving mental health services is particularly important. We have to get help in time and on a low threshold without waiting and sending a terumba. We also need to get to health centres better and faster. Mr President!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u104	Mr President! Minister Kiuru, you misunderstood the criticism of the Christian Democrats. We also believe that the main responsibility should lie with the public sector in these well-being areas, but if the area is small, the size of a medium-sized municipality, how can it be responsible for the service law up to the special services that require it? On the other hand, cooperation with the private sector is also needed, and it is worrying if public authorities create a situation in which they appear to be an unreliable contractual partner. Surely the Committee on Constitutional Affairs still has work to do with this proposal. In addition, in addition to the social welfare reform, the Government is preparing a number of separate laws affecting the service package, such as the abandonment of Kela compensations, and some services are very difficult to patch up in the public sector,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u105	Irade the Talman! Ett gott leftarskap ger oundliga öjligheter. Ett dåligt leftarskap igen förstör dessa öjligheter. Vi har säkert alla erfarenheter av hur stor skillnad det är mellan en god chef och en dålig chef.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u106	Mr President! Various employment reforms have been undertaken in this Chamber, although they do not actually relate to social reform. In that way, however, they are related to the fact that a very large number of people remain unemployed and excluded from working life on the health criterion in Finland. Now that we improve people's access to care and strengthen basic services, we will also be able to increase the number of people on the labour market. In that sense, this will also strengthen public finances. They also ask for cost savings. Although this reform does not include the €3 billion automatic cutter that was being driven last year by the coalition, this strengthening of basic services, to which I referred earlier, will also reduce the need for special services and thus bring savings. These bodies come from the terms and conditions laid down by the Constitutional Committee. There is also why we need to secure sufficient public production, which is clearly what you are challenging here. So you challenge the interpretation of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u108	Mr President! There have been a lot of misconceptions here about last season's proposal, and even the Minister has misconceived it. It was not such a cutter, it was precisely cost control, and it was precisely the mechanisms that had been put in place. Then there was this model of multi-producers. Although we absolutely did not approve and like that provincial administration, we did get, the Coalition Party, however, its multi-production, because it has become clear over these years that it is only the public sector that we will not be able to move forward with basic health care or basic services. We've seen it, and you have to understand it. All in all, this is becoming the mother of all the dimly ones, with the provincial governments remaining here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u111	Mr President! I woke up to this speech by Mr Risiko. I think it is important for Parliament to know what kind of proposals have been prepared in history and to be able to see what is being done now. Unlike Ben Zyskowicz's interlude, we have not been able to go on a guess-shoot of where the margins of the Constitutional Committee are. We do our homework so that we trust that these things have been evaluated in this house. Because of the margins of the Constitutional Committee, we had to come to the conclusion that we did not come to during the last term of government, but only then did Parliament realise that this mechanical 3 billion-dollar cutter did not work, because we cannot automatically regulate it because the Constitution guarantees people adequate social and health care services, and combined with this market model, which was acclaimed just now, it was a combination that knocked down this proposal here because people would not have received adequate social and health care services. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u112	Mr President! Should people in rural areas be concerned when contacting the Finns and they are concerned about what this social welfare reform will lead to? Mr President! In fact, in this government proposal there is a risk that even the small services in rural areas will be transferred to the central cities run by these briefcase-stickers. There is also a risk that the operation of the rescue services will become incomplete as funding is too concentrated on the social side. Ministers, how will your proposal safeguard the tasks of the rural elderly and health services and the rescue services? What is the entity that will bear the costs of empty social work in municipalities in five years' time?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u113	Mr President! Mr Mäenpää's speech and many others have made it clear that the services in this country would play over the last, that we would not have queues and that there would be no need for social welfare — on the contrary, all these problems have come to pass, and that is why we have long been preparing for this. We have queues, we have different services depending on where we live, and not everyone has access to occupational health services either. [Juha Mäenpää’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u114	Mr President! The Coalition Party wants to reform social services so that it is clearly of some use. What is the problem with the current health system? People in occupational health care are quickly provided with services and people with insurance receive services, but if you are retired, unemployed or otherwise outside these systems, access to a doctor is long — and this reform does not improve this. This will not improve this, and you could make a treatment guarantee without this administrative reform, and that is what the Assembly has called for. The reform, which would serve pensioners in particular, can be carried out without any administrative renovation. And now the question remains for Minister Paatero: Now that in many areas of Finland, including Kymenlaakso and South Karelia, the integration of social welfare services, primary health care and special medical care has already been done on a wide scale, on a regional scale, then, ladies and gentlemen, what does this change in those provinces?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u115	Mr President! Now it was a little difficult to follow Mr Häkkänen's speech when he first said that this proposal — the idea of which is to put together a wider set of responsibilities for these services so that a person can get treatment earlier and get the right care at the right time in the right place — is not the answer, as you explained, [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u116	Mr President! Extensive shoulders and a good reform of social and health care, which is indeed needed, will be achieved without a regional model, and if we look at what happened in the last parliamentary term, then the regional model would have lost its way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u117	Mr President! I do not want to go here, of course, to repeat or argue where the model fell last season. It will be clear from the minutes of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and perhaps it is not exactly what Mr Sarkomaa said. Instead, the quote I made in the group’s speech, namely ‘the nation’s interests would have the responsibility of uniting forces and spending the years in the results of the joint procurement delegation, the committee’s work,the cooperation goal’,was the representative ofSarkomaa’s speech on the last This is what you should do. I wish you could return to this same idea. Now we need such a movement of hope instead of this gloom, and now we need to combine forces and bring this together to the finish line. We know this background and history. Now I think the recognition of the facts is that we need and do social reform together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u118	Mr President! Congressman Salmon here just told me that the healthy shouldn't be cared for. In my opinion, these preventive measures are more profitable in both human and economic terms than they are to repair the damage that has already been done. One of the problems with the proposal is securing access to skilled labour. We already have a shortage of medical staff, especially local nurses. The Government’s solution to everything seems to be the digitisation of services. However, proper nurses are needed in the care of the elderly. The problem is also that the wage level of Finnish trained nursing staff is much lower than in other countries, to which Finnish nursing staff are attracted with better wages. This at its worst results in nurses changing fields or moving elsewhere to work for a better salary. Nursing is also a straining sector where the amount of work is growing rapidly. If working conditions and management could be modified in such a way as to improve the performance of the work, motivated factors could be found in the sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u119	Mr President! Every time there's talk of the war here, there's talk of the government weeds, and that's a trend word, no matter who's on the hook taking this to the finish line. Mr Slunga-Poutsalo said in that regard that no services are provided to people with administrative gears, and that is exactly what it is. Services are made by people. Mr Koponen has also just made a good speech on social and health care staff, and I would like to say that there is no fault in social welfare and health care staff, which is why this social welfare reform is being carried out. In global terms, we have highly educated and skilled social and health care staff, physiotherapists, doctors, nurses, social workers, everything. It is absolutely true that the common goal of us, beyond the government—positional boundaries, is that people will receive their services and we will have enough of these social and health care professionals, and I believe that the ministers will also share this concern with us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u120	Mr President! Here, among other things, a representative Lindtman asked if the coalition did not support the wider shoulders. Of course we are in favour of wider shoulders, but this 22-provinces model is the worst possible option. No expert will support it. So I would ask you, Minister Kiuru: why on earth have you come to the 22 provinces when no expert is in favour of it? Several experts have talked about five provinces, which would be optimal for a country such as Finland, where people live quite scattered around the country. Mr President! Nor is it in favour of a provincial tax, because in practice it means that, apart from the fact that we are fighting against rising taxes at national and municipal level, we will continue to fight against it also at provincial level, and, Mr President, I am quite sure that those who are paying all taxes now,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u121	Mr President! The Sote reform really has 15 years of loneliness behind it, and it has been building and doing all possible parties, each in turn. There have been more local government-based, regional-based, and sometimes accelerated and braked. All these years the people have marveled at this infallibility, at a time when the health inequalities of the population have been differentiated, the cost of social services has increased, people are constrained in waiting lists and special care has been under strain. This is precisely the reason why this reform must finally be carried out. These alternatives to the opposition in practice mean that you do list the problems nicely, but your remedy is that nothing is done.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u122	Mr President! Firstly, when reference is made to these constitutional interpretations of the last period: It is good to remember that they have been presented in a very different way from what is now at hand. If, for example, we are talking about this requirement for own production, I would say that this is a little hidden behind the fringes of the Constitution, that in fact these policies are to some extent a government's own ideological interpretation. But then there is the constant reference here to the fact that the alternative to the Convention is that nothing should be done: Yes, we want to reform social and health services, but we would not leave through such a large administrative reform, but, as Mr Häkkänen said well here, we would assume that people will be admitted to treatment. The provision of care, the obligation of service vouchers — there are many ways. There are Kela compensations, opening hours, there are ways. The second is that we want to put people at the centre, give them more opportunities to influence and choose. Thirdly, the use of information and technology will be much wider. There's a lot of untapped potential. Investing in the availability of skilled labour and their ability to cope with work, education, career cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u123	Mr President! Now it is surprising, though, that here in the opposition's speeches repeatedly this kind of argument is made that the basic health care public services are used by pensioners and the unemployed. I ask you: have you yourself used public services and when was the last time? There's a lot of other people who go there as customers. I myself have dealt with students as well as MPs or doctors there. He's not looking at it. And it is pointed out that it is necessary to facilitate access to treatment. Yes, and at the same time, do you understand what the whole social security system is all about? It is not just nurses or doctors, and it is precisely this access to treatment that is now intended to make it easier for us to take other professionals into account. We have very well-trained and competent therapists, mental health nurses, social workers, and for this we need the structural reforms needed to guide people — once again, I say — to the right recipient at the right time, and it will also bring us cost savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u124	Mr President! Yes, here we are commenting on the motions of the Coalition Party, or in fact on some government proposals, in the sense that I am actually beginning to wonder whether you have all read this paper yourself. These substantive development measures — improvement of the health guarantee, improvement of medical services or mental health services or the organisation of a practical issue at the level of the field, although older people need social services, housing services, basic health care, special medical care, even if due to a hip fracture, are the legislation on the content of practical services and the work of practical social welfare professionals and local decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u125	Mr President! The range of contributions from the Coalition Party is quite wide. This is one of the five models behind us. If we now had a proposal for five models, I would imagine that there would be fierce criticism from the coalition that this is now taking democracy very far away from that field. I have listened carefully and I claim to understand what is being said here by the assembly, but the point is that you should continue with the municipal system. After all, the municipal system is the reason why we currently have municipalities where you cannot see a doctor, other municipalities where you can. And this whole mess is not, as has been said here, just a matter of access to a doctor; it is a matter of greater scope: we have a huge variety of care for the elderly, a huge variety of child protection. No other country in the world produces and organises and finances these services on the basis of 294 municipalities. This season is quite over, what is going on in Finland in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u126	Mr President! I myself was a little confused that there was only an administrative debate here. It is precisely this reform that integrates the social and health services — primary health care, special care, care for the elderly, child protection — as Mr Lindén said. In my opinion, when you look at this from a human perspective, when you go to a health centre, you need to get better and faster treatment, more extensive. There must be sufficient resources for care of the elderly and child welfare. For example, there was informal care: it cannot be that in one municipality there is not enough support and in another municipality there is enough. This too will be improved by this reform, because they will be harmonised and also equality between people and strengthen their rights. In other words, this reform will not blow this up; it will improve and strengthen this good system in many ways. That is how much I would like to say that there are very strong entries in this proposal for local services. And as far as the multi-producer model is concerned, small private and organisations will continue to play a strong role in production.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u127	Mr President! Health inequalities are a key indicator of inequality and this reform will help to narrow them down. In a country such as Finland, the current large health inequalities are simply unacceptable. And yes, an important part of this reform is its impact on outsourcing. It is very good that the privatisation of social and health services is now being addressed. The constitutional problems of the social model, which included cuts of EUR 3 billion in the previous period, culminated above all in this so-called freedom of choice model. Personally, at least I am very pleased that the huge transfer of private tax money from the coalition to multinational corporations did not take place. We in the Left Alliance want to have access to a health centre doctor in the whole country within a week and free of charge, and therefore, in the context of the reform, an improvement in the treatment guarantee must be made. It's very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u128	Mr President! When this bill was in the consultation, the majority of the speakers said: the objectives are good, but the means are lacking to achieve these objectives. You are here to list goals, but there are no means. This is a clean administrative solution, and we are deliberating from the assembly that we want you to wake up to people's distress. People are in line, were before the corona, and after the corona, the queues have grown, and you focus on the new level of government and the new tax. I'm going to ask you now, when's the treatment guarantee coming? I don't see it. I don't hear it. The government has not provided money for it, even though there are a lot of things you're putting money into. You've even tied up a therapeutic guarantee. Mental health problems are our greatest nation's disease. Korona has increased them, but you have even prevented that citizens' initiative from being dealt with in Parliament. You have said that it comes at the same time as the treatment guarantee proposal. When's it coming? I hope you will respond to this. Then I will say that the big problem with this government is not just this bill, but that,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u130	Mr. Speaker! I'm sure this convention's road to social service is hopelessly complicated. During the four parliamentary term, the Coalition Party has first held that the principle of responsibility should be implemented by larger units, then even by the joint municipal assembly model, and then by the large-scale provinces with all the dims to which the social welfare issues would be transferred, and now there is some sort of zero model in turn. Quite a zigzag can be seen here, but all of these models that have been promoted by the Assembly have had in common that the market share should be increased and powers transferred there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u133	Mr President! I would like to ask Minister Kiuru: why do you hate companies? [ Hustles from the left] We are very concerned at the meeting about what will happen after these services, if and when this social welfare reform comes into force. We have always been in favour of a multi-producer model,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u134	I will give you one last response to this, Mr Berg, please, and then the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u135	Mr President! To begin with, it must be said at the outset that this proposal has not been taken into account at all, if it is said that the multi-producer model would not continue and would not be possible — in such a short space of time. Then, with regard to the construction of this administrative price, if we currently have 294 municipalities, 150 health centres or social services, 20 hospital districts, six special care districts and a number of other organisations and we can reach 21 welfare districts and Helsinki, then we will be able to achieve a well-organised and clearer structure for this administration. Then again, Mr President, if I may, I would say from that funding that it is a little misleading with regard to the fact that, among other things, the financing of Helsinki as a whole will be substantially reduced. Account should be taken of:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u136	Now Minister Kiuru 2 minutes and Minister Paatero 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u137	Mr President! Representative Kauma here earlier suspected that the Minister would not love companies. I love people, I love Finns, and I love that we will finally finish this reform of social welfare and health care in this Chamber. You yourself have just said that this kind of incorrect information, referring to the positions of the Assembly and the assessment of them by others, should not be shared. You have just testified in the speech that the biggest corner of this 1668 page is not wanted or really not able to read. And you are telling us here, suggesting that in Finland we would be turning this well-functioning multi-producer model into something else. This proposal does not alter the possibility of purchasing services on a large scale, nor does it interfere with the legislation on vouchers. This is precisely where we insist that we also need private companies to help the Finnish social and health field. But we are not going to make these attempts in this performance of renegade hosts. That's the difference. That is why I am now focusing on your second point, which you said earlier. The representatives of Risikko and Kauma in the previous debate took a position on what is the problem with this current model, but at the same time you have not presented any solution here, other than that of the current model. So we have almost 300 municipalities and they could still have been in charge, but we have 195. This number of municipalities have already given up the Master's role to someone else. And you continue to wonder if five regions would be better, even though at the same time the assembly drives it very straightforwardly,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u138	Mr President! At the very beginning of the debate, there was a question of the role of organisations: They will continue to play a significant role both in welfare areas and with municipalities in the provision of services,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u141	Then let's go to the list of speakers. We have just over an hour to have this debate for now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u142	Mr President! The Government's proposal also proposes reforms to the rescue service. I will concentrate on that in my speech. Today, in Finland, the rescue services are carried out by 22 regional rescue services. The proposed reform would shift the provision of rescue services from municipalities and joint municipal authorities to welfare areas and strengthen state guidance in the rescue service. In some areas, such as personal choices, centralizing power on wide shoulders may be a good thing, but in such cases it has never worked or improved services, but has weakened them. Associations and mergers will benefit the service providers economically and will benefit the decision-makers of large cities and city centres, as their control will increase. But at the edges of the operating area, municipal mergers and now a province or welfare area, the services will inevitably deteriorate, and as a rule they will disappear completely when the units are concentrated there in the city centre. Minister Ohio spoke of the importance of the vibrating rescue sector for this country. The fact is that the whole industry rests to a significant extent on the voluntary, frankly exploited workforce. The fire brigades were established in the past because the fire brigade, which was far from downtown, never made it there in time. Many lives, many homes and many jobs have been saved in Finland only because men and women who voluntarily engage in fire and rescue work have gone into rescue work at any time of the day without pay. Mr President! More than 70 percent of the rescue force are these contract firemen, those who, as it were, are about to save others for free. Their share of the cost of the entire rescue service is less than 20%. Today we are in a situation where society has imposed increasing demands on this voluntary activity without, however, agreeing to finance them. We're running out of volunteers. Indeed, Finland’s security is not ensured by rhetoric on Parliament’s toilet. At the moment, the Freefirers themselves will not receive any compensation for their losses as a result of the rescue work. The reform aims at an even more efficient and more economical system. If the Home Secretary were here, I'd ask him: Is the responsibility for safety still planned on the basis of free labour, or are the fire brigades finally receiving proper funding to compensate for their important work? And do you think it is now an attempt to take decision-making power further and further away from ordinary people, without considering that volunteers in the fire department may already have been tired of bouncing around the decision-makers' whistle for almost nothing? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u143	Mr President! Larger players are needed to organise social services. In the Government's proposal, some 200 of the current separate organisers will be transferred to around 20 organisers. This will help to ensure the quality of care and special expertise in the whole of Finland. It is also easier for larger organisers to have a skilled workforce. At the moment, it is almost impossible for municipalities to influence the costs of special care. The municipality is heartburned by the fact that ever - growing bills fall off the shelf of a pharmacy and could not have been genuinely affected. Of course, no one wants to leave anyone unattended, but the bottom of the bag has long emptiness. Combining primary health care and special care under the same operator is one of the most important means of managing costs. It is generally felt that patients are too sensitive to more expensive special care. With the reform, the decision-making power and wallet would be shared by the same operator, which would strengthen primary health care and contribute to cost-effectiveness. The very essence of this reform is therefore the fact that we need to be able to deal with people in time. ‘On a strawhead, straight to special care’is an In the Government's proposal, the new welfare areas are, as a general rule, equivalent to the existing medical districts. During the last parliamentary term, this county model of sots passed the examination of the Constitutional Committee. The establishment of well-being areas on the basis of regional division is quite a natural solution. The regions are large enough to cope with their tasks and small enough to take into account the specific needs of the population structure. The specific characteristics of the regions inevitably affect the need for services and the way in which services are organised. President! We've been doing this for too long. Our inability to find a solution has already cost a great deal. There's a lot of stuff going on and waiting for the war to be completed. Of course, the urgency does not justify the wrong solutions, but not all of this reform needs to be resolved at once. Reforms also tend to contain surprises. Very often, reforms will be corrected as needs for change are identified. I don't think there'll ever be a complete mess. However, fear of error must not stand in the way of reform. The social welfare reform will be carried out in order to safeguard services and curb the growth of costs. Better and better quality care is, on the other hand, allowed to wait quickly. The reform will enable the focus to be shifted to promoting well-being and health, prevention and early intervention. The reform also aims to speed up access to treatment. Mr President! The opposition sees little good in the reform and has resisted social dumping as unnecessary during this parliamentary term. Nevertheless, the opposition in the following sidelines is constantly calling for structural reforms. In the last parliamentary term, the lack of freedom of choice, which has been knocked out by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is likely to be a difficult issue for the assembly. I do not understand the reluctance of the Finns to reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u144	Mr President! After the consultation, this revised proposal for social welfare reform is definitely the best one of the proposals that have been put forward so far, and I hope and believe that this will go to the finish line. Changes can now be made in the parliamentary procedure, and it is worth noting that any shortcomings in the proposal can be corrected. During the parliamentary process, I hope that special attention will be paid to the situation of people with disabilities. The whole package of laws should still be viewed through the eyeglasses of disability impact assessment, as this proposal is also important from the perspective of equality. Although this is an administrative reform, administrative structures create a framework for action and structures must ensure equality. A reform of the Disability Services Act is also being built on the basis of this law, which is in a hurry to do. A number of disability organisations have been particularly concerned about whether wider shoulders will break down if the centres of excellence for people with disabilities in more welfare areas, i.e. special supra-regional care districts, are dismantled. In particular, if this is done on a fast-track basis, there is a high risk that not every region will have a sufficient number of experts and that the services will be reduced. Now that the minister is here, it would be great if he would answer this concern sent to me by the organisations. There is also a need to ensure clear records for the construction of health and well-being interfaces between well-being areas and municipalities. For example, in your war this has proved to be partly difficult work, because municipalities tend to think that promoting health and well-being is the work of the social welfare and health services, and the social welfare and health services think that it belongs to municipalities. One of the main problems is that there is no common understanding of what promoting health and well-being means and that the assessment of the effects of health and well-being is not part of the decision-making process. This is a point of view if you could write more clearly in this bill. Mr President! In this speech, however, I would particularly like to highlight the situation of nursing and nursing workers. Although this is an administrative reform, this issue must also be addressed in this context, as the administrative structures must provide a framework for the development of services and the competence of staff. In many ways, nursing has become a crisis, and it is by no means just a corona. The development of nursing work also requires national guidance and cannot be left to the regions alone. At the moment, there is a greater shortage of qualified nurses in many places than doctors. There are many reasons for this, but the following three issues also call for national solutions, which it is important to talk about also in connection with this social reform: First of all, the clinical career development of nurses is almost impossible at the moment, as the organisation of specialist nursing studies has been left to universities of applied sciences and regions. Fortunately, there is now a working group in the Ministry to prepare national specialisation studies. We are currently lacking a large number of, for example, rheumatists, memory workers, specialists in mental retardation and other such self-employed nurses, because they do not have a uniform training programme and are not trained anywhere. A nurse’s undergraduate degree does not provide the capacity for this type of work, and this cannot be done by induction or by internal training. The second point is to ensure management of nursing in the new structures. The implementation of the social welfare reform must ensure that each health care organisation has a nursing system and that there are managers and managers of nursing at every level of the organisation. The management structure of nursing must be defined and made a national model. The lack of management at different levels of the organisation is one of the reasons for the nurses’ fatigue. If there are not enough managers in nursing, there will also be no evidence-based nursing and no one will be responsible for career development opportunities for nursing workers. A positive example is the Hospital District of Central Finland, where the head nurse works with a partner with the head doctor. A career development model has been built for nurses in which the skills of trained and advanced nurses are recognised. Career advancement also means wage increases. Only with national guidance will these good practices be transferred to different parts of Finland. The third point I would like to raise is to ensure that care is based on research evidence. The Nursing Research Foundation is doing an excellent job, as well as Duodecim on the Medical side in the form of Healthy Care Recommendations. I cannot help but wonder how the funding of the Nursing Research Foundation is dragging so much behind the funding of the Visiting Care recommendations, even though they are doing equally important work. This, too, is part of the lack of appreciation that exhausts the nurses. As I said, the reform of the social security system should now progress rapidly, but, at the same time, Parliament must be careful to correct any errors and shortcomings in the proposal. We must also ensure that the issues that require national guidance are raised and not always thought that they will be dealt with in the regions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u145	Mr President! The good speech by Congressman Noora Koponen reminded me of this week when I was with my four - year - old daughter at the joint emergency services of OYS. He had good treatment for the wound to his head, and that is how it is. I encountered people in that emergency room, and it is clear that people using public services from very different life situations in different parts of Finland and that in some way they affect all of us. Anyone in their life can be dependent on public social services. Mr President! When help and treatment are needed, they must be provided. Human well-being is widely reflected in society as a whole. We cannot and cannot measure everything with money, but we can measure how quickly people get treatment in different parts of Finland. One important content reform in this reform is that we are now improving and streamlining the treatment path and cooperation from the basic level to special services, so that people can be treated smoothly and in good time all over Finland. Mr President! The city centre's key issues in this social welfare reform were and is that public, private and organisations can continue to work together for the good of Finnish people. The social welfare reform relies heavily on the public organiser but enables a multi-producer model and, for example, service vouchers. It is important that the committee now also takes account of the fact that, for example, we in the north still have a very important cooperative model. Mr President! This reform of the government will be carried out specifically by people ahead of us when the aim is to improve access to care and when the decision-makers in the regions, the welfare regions, are directly elected. If there is a transfer of power here, it is to the people, to the people, when democracy is strengthened. In this debate, someone asked why the government does not trust the experts. But the preparation of the reform has been carried out on the basis of the work of experts and the feedback on the opinion has been carefully read. It is very good that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health decided to invite 129 people or persons to be heard orally and 128 to be heard in writing. A total of 257 expert consultations have already been decided at this stage, and I hope that we in the government as well as in the opposition will be sensitive to the views of the experts in the committee. I would like to thank Mr Paatero for the financial aspects that you have already raised. Perhaps I am a little concerned about how the regions can prepare for this reform and how to prepare for it at all, if the amount of funding and perhaps the criteria are still unclear in such a way that they may then change a great deal along the way. It is important that this funding should be as stable and predictable as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u146	Mr President! When you suddenly go to a hospital, the importance of social services becomes clearer. The State of Education takes care of its inhabitants. Our Constitution obliges us to guarantee all Finns equal and equal social and health services regardless of their place of residence. That is why we need social reform. The financing of well-being areas is based on the service needs of the inhabitants of the region. It is fair to target funding where people suffer and where help is most needed. This is not against preventive work. Is it not reasonable for young people who move to study places to be allocated slightly less funding than parents who have more than average age in the regions? It is a fact that, according to age structure and population needs, the need for services is higher in the regions than the average in the country. It is a question of fairness and equal services for citizens. Surely there is also uncertainty about the financing model in the face of such a major reform. Northern Ostrobothnia, for example, is the second fastest ageing region of the country after Uusimaa. However, this is not reflected in the future need-based funding, where the province is about to lose some of it. It has been asked whether the need for services in the regions is genuinely reflected in new needs. This will certainly be developed in the future when the reform is being prepared and implemented in stages. Mr President! One of the objectives of the social welfare reform is to curb the growth of costs as our nation grows older, fewer children are born and fewer people are employed. The final impacts depend on increasing healthcare productivity, the quality of management and the promotion of well-being and health. The reform will move from 195 organisers to 25, making the administration clearer and more straightforward. Against this background, I do not quite understand this administrative debate here in plenary. Mr President! The implementation of the social welfare reform through the regions ensures that one and the same operator can provide high-quality social and health services to every person throughout Finland. The regional model was also sustainable in previous years in the constitutional evaluation of the Constitutional Committee. The municipal-based system is unable to support variable and growing social costs, so the reform is very welcome. One seriously ill person has rocked the finances of a small municipality. In the regional model, decision-making remains close to people. Regional decision-makers are elected directly, with transparent decision-making and greater involvement of service users. The system can be developed to assess the needs of local people. It is also important to ensure that jobs in this sector are more attractive. The need for labour will increase, so investments in e.g. well-being at work, quality management and user-friendly information systems are important. With a well-functioning and well-being working community and rational digitalisation, we can also improve productivity, which will curb the increase in the costs of the social services sector. Mr President! This vast project will come to the committees in the spring. Let's get it to the finish line with a little bit of coal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u147	Mr President! Sote came to Parliament today, corrected, and changes can still be made in Parliament. That is why we need to look at this proposal with particular care now, and we need to look at the points that need to be developed here. I certainly support the package negotiated, although I would like to see a few corrections. This presentation includes social services, health services and rescue services. The last round also included employment services and environmental health care, but they are waiting for the next wave for the moment. We are building on a regional model which, during the last term of the government, received clean papers from the Constitutional Committee. The only change now is the name and the separate solution of Uusimaa. Above all, Finns need a shift from special care to preventive support, as I see it, and there is a critical need for developing customer guidance, among other things — before being a representative of the national parliament I was in preparation for regional social services, and that was a very special thing to remember. The reform of the rescue services and sufficient resources there are also essential in order to be able to prepare together with knowledge. The work of semi-permanent fire brigades must also be safeguarded so that the services can continue in their current form so that they extend everywhere and these initial response times will also be realised. The need-tested funding was already rejected in that debate, but I personally see that this proposal for means-tested funding was taken in a good direction after the consultation. For example, the correction for my country meant an increase of EUR 50 per capita, certainly calculated at the moment, i.e. a clear direction for the better. The whole proposal will significantly improve the financing of services where the need is so great. That amount sounds like prying, but the situation has arisen from the fact that services have been under-resourced for years and therefore basic services have had to be dried up. The need-based approach provides funding according to the number of elderly people, sick people, unemployed people and those in need of care in the region. It is only fair that more money is allocated to care for the sick than to care for the healthy. Päijät-Häme is the second largest winner of demand-based funding right after North Karelia, but we will not be able to reach the level of Uusimaa’s money – this certainly describes the changes in funding. In many municipalities, the money has been gone for a long time, and the drying up and centralisation of basic services is an unsustainable path. The need for social reform has been recognised so far throughout the party field and has already been promoted half of my life. The reform of social and health services is definitely needed by Finns, and the OECD's country report, among other things, stated that structural reforms are also particularly necessary from the economic point of view after the interest rate. The thickness of the wallet, working or the location of the establishment shall not determine the accessibility or quality of the services. The multi-producer model was also criticised in that debut. However, the multi-producer model remains, contrary to what has been said in this Chamber today. It is clear that social protection must be further developed in strong public-private cooperation. For example, the service vouchers and the personal budget are well underway and can also be continued in this new model, which I personally am very pleased about. The Centre was a strong defender of needs-based funding, local services and entrepreneurs in the negotiations. This is still not the perfect model, but it is particularly good at this point to take forward. Päijät-Häme has been in the forefront of developing this new model of social services, a regional model, when its shoulders have not been carried and sufficient. That is why I see that this transitional period, seven years, is far too long and should be examined in committee. Another detail that I would like to make in committee is the place where school health care is located. Here I disagree with the motion, and I see that the best place for student service would be for municipal leadership instead of provincial leadership.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u148	Mr President! In Finland, social reform has been taking place for a long time, if I may say so for too long. A variety of models have been presented and worked on, but they have not yet been completed. But, of course, all that years of work has not been wasted. Lessons have been learned from mistakes and problems so as not to trip over the same things again. The reform itself is now also doing much less than the previous social model. Only social and health care and rescue measures are included in the new social welfare reform now under discussion. Would it be time, at last, for this key decade of reform to come to an end? I'll answer it myself: yes. The question is why the reform of social services is so important to Finland. Finnish social and health care is a very fragmented whole. Currently, nearly 200 municipalities or joint municipal authorities are responsible for organising social welfare and health care. The municipalities' resources for organising services are very different, and therefore Finns also receive very different services depending entirely on where they happen to live. When you look at the demographic structure of our municipalities and its development in the near future, it is clear that more and more municipalities will be in great difficulty in securing adequate social and health care services guaranteed by our constitution. There is an urgent need for both structural and substantive reforms. It is not in anyone’s interests, humanly or economically, that people have to wait in line for long periods of time to get emergency care. When people do not get help on time, the cost of special care will also increase. It is clear that the cost of early support and preventive social services is only a fraction of what the costs are for remedial services. That is why we need to invest heavily in basic services, both in social and health care, and that work is now being done. The development of future social welfare centres, the care guarantee and the care dimension are at the heart of this reform. In other words, people are at the centre and the availability and accessibility of their services are secured. People’s bounce from one door to another will be reduced by integration of social and health services, basic and special levels. At the same time, we must ensure access to skilled labour. In order to attract students in the field of social welfare and health in the future, the sector needs to be developed in many respects. It is very important to develop the content of the work and to increase cross-professional cooperation. There should also be better opportunities for development and progress at work. We have a skilled and professional group of social and health care professionals. We will take care of their working conditions and the content of the work, so that we will have new experts in the field in the future. Mr President! It is clear that once again such a major reform is also a source of widespread criticism. This has also been the case with previous proposals for reform, but the positions of critics and defenders are changing. I also strongly believe that in the case of this type of reform, criticism is true, but criticism must also be based on the right information. In the public debate, criticism has been raised, in particular, by the financing model of the reform and, in part, by misunderstandings. The financing model is a complex entity and I believe that the balance between the funding and tasks of both welfare regions and municipalities will be monitored and, if necessary, corrected. I have followed previous efforts to reform at the heart of social welfare in the service of the third sector. Special services for substance abuse care, primary and sheltered homes and institution services for child protection are only examples of the strong role played by organisations and the private sector in certain areas of social and health care for years, even decades. It is understandable that concerns about the future of these activities have now also been raised in the social dialogue. However, the multi-producer model will continue to be maintained in the social welfare reform and service vouchers will continue to be used in the provision of services. Mr President! There is no such thing as a perfect social model, but now we are doing as good as we can. The reform is now in our hands, and in committee work we will be doing careful work in consultation with many, many experts. This reform will be carried out for future generations and this reform will now be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u149	Mr President! The world has changed, not so much our service system. The world changed in the spring faster than anyone expected. During the Korona Spring, Finland conducted an unprecedented development leap towards both digital and basic needs. The organizations were able to change their activities faster, since the foundation stone of many organizations has been laid in the midst of the trials of wartimes. Therefore, organisations will have a strong foothold as part of the service system in the future. Korona brightened the heart of the welfare society. We need to be prepared, prepared, functional and well-managed. Finland struck the corona together, and now it is time to do the same again, as a learner of spring and more effectively. It requires every single one of us, and we must use every possible means. We need to find the best way to live safely with the corona virus among us until the safe vaccine is developed. It could take another month or so. Let us stay healthy and take care of one another, especially now as Christmas approaches. In addition to our common enemy, it may seem a side-effect, but it is one of the most important structural changes for the Finnish economy, and it has been going on for 15 years now. This social model is the most streamlined so far and in the right order. The previous rounds and the guidelines of the Constitutional Committee have been taken into account from the outset. The feedback of the consultation has been heard and the Board of Directors has jointly assessed the need for changes. We have now received a legislative package through the evaluation council for the parliamentary procedure. Mr President! The aim is to increase cooperation for the benefit of the inhabitants of the region, not to increase administrative and management costs. Services will be strengthened, quality will be required and the guarantee for treatment without urgent care will be tightened: the social welfare centre must have a reception time per week. Digital services will be further developed, the division of work between social services centres will be reformed, and specialist consultations will be brought to the centre. One of the advantages of Korona Spring was the huge digital leap in social services. Suddenly, many developments that were never seen possible became an active part of everyday life. We build equal services regardless of the postal code or the size of the wallet in the whole country — services the size of a person, because life cannot be divided into ministries or administrative sectors. We've got to get help from one door, and we've got to stop bouncing around from one door to the other. We need both: better digital services and more reception times, genuinely listening to the customer's needs. The attitude of the service system must be taken to a new angle. How can we help each person to cope in his or her own life situation? How can we increase people’s participation and active activity in their own lives? That is basically what a welfare society is all about. Mr President! Our Sote professionals have done their best at many health centres and hospital districts. We have good practices in every area. These successes should be distributed to the whole country, just as corona practices were quickly distributed between regions in the spring. The development of care paths and services will benefit everyone: the customer, the staff and the taxpayer. We need good change management in every unit, and this will ensure the well-being and well-being of the personnel. I believe that good management is also an important means of getting professionals who have left the sector back to work in line with their training. Involvement of customers and organisations in development work pays off. Prospects for the future and revelations of hope on the horizon — they are needed now more than ever. I think the new name is appropriate: the welfare area. It reminds us of our common goal that people are doing well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u150	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! As a social and health care professional and health care administration, I saw just a few comments on this reform. First of all, I would like to express my strong concern at the fact that this provincial government itself and this fat social welfare bill do not provide incentives for us to get better services. I wonder that once the impact assessments of the bill have been made, it has not even been possible to assess whether this will produce better services than the current system. This is something that a number of commentators draw attention to. Several interested parties drew attention to the fact that the objectives are good but this lacks the means to achieve these objectives. There has been a lot of talk here about the views of the Coalition Party. In my opinion, an intellectually sound political debate is that each party will state its own objectives and then it will be possible to discuss them. The strong will of the National Coalition Party is that social and health services are equally available and are produced mainly from tax revenue and arranged mainly with tax resources, but then the services can also be provided by organisations and companies. The most important thing is that people receive services. Yes, when you look at this model, my strong concern is that this system of ours is now draining into insurance. In Helsinki, 70 per cent of families with children have insurance. There are actually lines, if you have been there — a representative asked if you had visited health centres — unemployed people, there are quite a lot of families with children who do not have insurance, and then there are pensioners there. Our strong will during the last term of government was that basic health care should have been put in order, and I am really concerned that this proposal does not show up. I would now like to ask about this treatment guarantee model: several representatives of the government and the opposition have asked when it will come. Officials say there is no funding for this, it is not coming soon. You have even tied the therapeutic guarantee to this upcoming treatment guarantee proposal so that I hope the Minister of Responsibility will now answer: when will it be coming, because it is not included in this bill? I'm really worried that we've got more waiting lists. It seems that this nursing debt will cause more deaths and disease than the corona epidemic itself, so it would be important now to focus on these issues so that people get treatment first and foremost. It is clear that we need social and health care reform, but it must be one that improves people's services and then reduces the increase in costs. No one wants to cut social and health care, but there must be a reform that gives them confidence that the slope can be reduced, that the money really is enough for services. This is a question of those most vulnerable people getting the services — the wealthy can always afford to buy those services. As far as this private sector is concerned, we have tried very hard to scrap the multi-producer model. You, who have read the statement and looked at what has been corrected in the government's proposal, know that the Minister is, of course, a minister. The kiuru had to do a great deal to correct its presentation, because you tried to restrict the participation of small businesses and organisations with a really hard hand. You can see it from that corrected show. But then just a few remarks about what I'm really worried about: I myself am a representative of Parliament with a nurse background, and the nurse organisations have made their cry for help. She was listening to the midwives. Can she hear any of Mari's nurses? This huge care debt worries nurses, the interest rate worries nurses, and the message I receive from the nurses, several times a day, is that you should now focus on the services that nurses and other social workers have the opportunity to cope with that burden. They do their best, but yes, we should focus here on improving services rather than importing new administration and new taxes. In many ways, this proposal undermines the possibilities of improving services. We've been working on projects in social centers for a long time. We know that social welfare centres and health care are not going to be okay by having projects and project money. Minister Kiuru, you promised a thousand doctors. You said that if something is done to make things right, there will be a thousand doctors in Finland right away. The official corrected the speech and stated that this did not allow doctors to be hired and that this was the starting point for the project work of the social welfare centres. But I don't think this alone will improve our basic health care. Yes, we need legislation for this, and I hope that you will answer when the therapy guarantee and the care guarantee you have promised will come. Then, Mr President, on the subject of research, Parliament has called for solutions to social and health care research to be found as part of the reform, and this is still the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u151	Mr President! The county tax has appeared in the debate as a troll lurking around the corner and, on the other hand, some people need a provincial tax in order to have more say in these welfare areas and greater self-government. I will give some thought to this question. The differences between welfare areas to be established in Finland, both in the need for services and social welfare expenditure and in the financing base, pose very difficult challenges for the financing model of the regions. In the early stages, the functions of the welfare areas consist solely and most likely in the near future mainly of the social welfare and health services and rescue services. Stability and predictability are essential for the financing of both tasks. The provision of basic rights services must be able to be secured on an equal regional basis in all cyclical situations. In the final analysis, the responsibility for providing services rests with the State. It has a more diverse funding potential than any model in municipalities or welfare areas. Based on previous contributions from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the right to taxation in welfare areas is not necessary from the constitutional point of view. It is a question of regional self-government, for which there are no fixed pole trees such as those placed on municipal self-government on the basis of a tradition that has lasted for more than a century. The impact of tax law should be assessed from the perspective of the principle of equality of the Constitution and ensured that regional differences in the tax burden on taxable persons do not become excessive. In this examination, account must be taken of the whole of income tax, i.e. not only taxation in welfare areas, but also taxation in central and local government. There is no clear assessment of what is acceptable in regional differences in taxation, but this was one of the factors that struck the social model in the 11 to 15 period when it would have led to a rather drastic increase in tax differentials between municipalities. Elements supporting cost growth can be built on both central government funding and the own tax-based financing model. If funding comes from the State, the cost can be controlled by regulating the amount of funding and, for example, by steering investment. In the context of the social welfare reform currently under discussion, the financing model for welfare areas is accompanied by elements supporting cost mitigation. Compared to this, it is known that the income base between regions is tens of per cent differentiated, i.e. that in the poorest regions, the same tax rate receives tens of per cent less euros in cash than in the wealthiest regions, especially in Uusimaa. It is essential for the balance between tasks and funding and the adequacy of funding that, in accordance with the principle of funding, the tasks and funding of welfare areas are provided for the real conditions for the regions to fulfil their obligations, precisely because, according to the Constitution, everyone is entitled to adequate social and health services and in an equal way. From the point of view of regional equality, there would therefore be serious problems with the own tax-based financing model for welfare areas. On the one hand, higher average per capita social costs and, on the other hand, lower than average tax bases are concentrated in the same welfare areas. It follows that there is a real need for a drastic equalisation system in order to achieve a fair result somehow. The introduction of a regional tax would put pressure on the taxation of income tax due to the increase in social and health expenditure. In the case of the state-funded model, tightening pressures would be imposed on the tax base of the State as a whole, which is considerably broader, including consumption taxation. In addition, the pressure to increase taxation on the part of the public is equal in terms of regional funding. These factors are essential in assessing whether and at what stage a regional tax is at all reasonable. It would now appear that there could only be real opportunities for regional tax once the financial fairness of this model has been experienced for several years,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u152	Mr President! Sote reform is once again one step closer to being implemented once we have received a government proposal for Parliament. However, there is still a long way to go to bring reform to the end. This model of social protection has been built on the work of previous governments, and the work done has not therefore been thrown into a scrap heap. I therefore hope that the model can still be improved in this House so that it can obtain the broadest possible acceptance. The key objectives of the social welfare reform are to reduce welfare and health inequalities, to facilitate access to care, to better reconcile services and to reduce costs. In terms of access to rapid treatment and timely care, it is essential that we clear the border between basic health care and special medical care — no longer crowding out people and partial optimization of costs, but one of the hatches from which a person is directed to the assistance and treatment he needs. With the overall responsibility in one place, we will also get rid of the frustrating situation in the municipalities that special care will send a bill at the end of the year, which will have to be paid, even though its size cannot be affected by its own activities. That is what this reform is trying to achieve, and that is what we need to achieve in order to curb the increase in social costs and at the same time secure the services they need for people. Mr President! The most challenging part of this society is the financing model that changes the distribution of money between municipalities and regions. It radically changes the finances of municipalities when about half of the tax revenue is transferred from municipalities to social welfare. This is particularly problematic for the growing municipalities and cities that need to make their investments, such as schools, day-care centres and public transport, at a significantly smaller income stream. This government proposal shows the handprint of the Greens. In the negotiations, we managed to change the limits by changing the flat-out attack on municipalities losing money and by improving the financing of growth cities. This made the proposal more balanced and acceptable. From the point of view of growth cities, it is important that a separate criterion based on population growth was obtained in the central government participation system. It is a good start to better reflect the costs of growth. Taking better account of the number of foreign-language speakers in the distribution of money is also important for municipalities with a large number of foreign-language speakers. I also consider it important to invest in the promotion of well-being by creating structures and allocating a share of funding to it. This is the direction in which we are in favour of developing this system. In the work of promoting well-being and health, municipalities and the third sector are very important. Mr President! The objectives of the social welfare reform are important and worthwhile, and the reform is necessary for Finland as a whole, so that, as the population ages, we can take care of everyone who needs help. However, I am concerned about the impact of the financial model on the vitality and ability of large, growing cities to invest. Although the financing model was better negotiated for growth cities, it still does not take sufficient account of key factors for them, such as population growth, wage and real estate costs, the number of foreign-language speakers or regional segregation. For the Greens, it is important that while we take care of the services of the whole of Finland and the peripheral regions, the low population and the ageing regions, we take care of the conditions for large cities and growth areas to take care of their own inhabitants in the future. The Legislative Evaluation Council has also drawn attention to this and required impact assessments. This is something that needs to be carefully addressed in Parliament. Mr President! Finally, work will continue to tackle these challenges. The Government is committed to conducting an overall review of the financial system of municipalities and to developing it in such a way as to safeguard the sustainability and stability of local government finances, taking into account, among other things, the ability of growing municipalities to invest. The Government is also committed to developing the THL's social service coefficient by taking better account of the circumstances, such as wages and real estate costs, as well as regional segregation and homelessness. This work will be done before 2023. With this in mind, I believe that, indeed, with this parliamentary debate, we will still be able to fit this model in such a way that we can really move it forward with the widest possible cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u153	Mr President! The reform of social and health care in the Marin government is about ensuring the necessary treatments for everyone throughout the country. Finns are currently not receiving social and health care services on equal terms. Treatment and services may now have to wait for a very long time, and the service chain can be interrupted several times for one reason or another. The reform therefore focuses on services from a human perspective. The focus is also on basic services and preventive measures. The social reform of the Marin government has eliminated the mistakes made by the previous government and has taken careful account of the constitutional framework of the reform. At the same time, the Government will reform both services and administration. The health care guarantee, nursing planning and the development of health centres and municipal social services centres are at the heart of the Government’s reform work. When implemented, the reform of social security will lead to a significant reduction in the administrative burden, contrary to what, among other things, the Coalition Party has said in this Chamber today. Mr President! The Finnish social services system is highly fragmented. The pattern of 294 municipalities, 150 health centres or social services, 20 hospital districts, 6 special care districts and numerous other organisations has led to a serious deterioration in primary health care. As the Government’s social welfare reform takes place, the administration will be significantly lighter when responsibility for social services is transferred to the wider shoulders of 21 regions and Helsinki. In the future, citizens will no longer be unequal in terms of access to services according to their municipality of residence, as they are at present. It is in everyone's interest that, in the same context, the criteria for funding should be harmonised and that there should be equality in services across Finland. Mr President! The financing model of the reform has, understandably, given rise to a lot of debate. The objective of the Sote reform is to reduce welfare and health inequalities and to ensure equal and high-quality social and health services for all Finns, we have long agreed among the parties. However, many have now criticised the funding model based on the equalisation mechanism, which is based on the objective that the proposed funding model will ensure that welfare areas can carry out their statutory tasks on an equal footing throughout the country. No financial or administrative model is complete, but to secure Finnish social services we must finally be able to make decisions. Mr President! In the past, the Coalition Party has been a key driver of administrative welfare reform in Finland. Now, however, for some reason, the rally has turned around, and instead of talking about the need for social welfare reform, the party wants to wait for voluntary social welfare areas to be created on the initiative of the municipalities. However, this road is complete. We can't afford to wait any longer. We need a social welfare reform, and it's time for that. Mr President! As the financing model for social welfare reform has raised a lot of questions, I will focus on this whole in my next speech because of the lack of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u154	Mr President! The past year has been extremely challenging for Finland as a whole. It is a great achievement and effort from the government and the ministries and their officials that we are having this debate in this Chamber today on the 1600-page legislative package. After all, this package of laws will explain how our Finnish social and health services will be organised in the future. Indeed, many Finns believe that the social reform has become a completely unattainable eternity project over the years, and I am not surprised. I remember myself starting work on the social side in my day, that there was already talk of how social reform was going to be, but it was not there yet. In the 2020s, I never thought I'd deal with it myself in this Chamber. It is high time that this reform was finally carried out. The views on how this should be done will certainly differ in this House, but I believe that we are quite in agreement that this reform is needed. It is necessary because Finns have genuine access to social and health services more equally than they do today, and it is also necessary because we succeed in cutting the cost development of this huge field. This reform will affect each of us and our loved ones in some way. Often we do not necessarily know in advance when we will need social and health services, but each of us will need them in some form at some point in his life. For others these needs are greater than for others, but it should never depend on where you happen to live or what kind of life or work situation you have, whether you get help or not. Unfortunately, this is what it is in some places at the moment. You should always be able to trust that when you need help, you will get it. Social and health care services should always be provided in a timely and targeted manner so that people feel that their needs for help and care are fully taken into account. Even today, in the field of social and health care, many professionals are doing extremely important work, just as they do on every shift every day. It is the duty of our decision-makers to ensure the structures and opportunities for work that help is available. Mr President! Unfortunately, when I was working on child protection and family services or, for example, mental health and care and care for the elderly, I had to see what kind of human pain and even destruction is causing when the services do not engage in dialogue with each other or when the gaps between them are too great. The purpose of the service structure is always to enable support and care and also to prevent, not increase, problems. We can no longer close our eyes to the fact that the present system at its worst makes it possible for us to miss out or to remain invisibly in need. However, our system cannot focus solely on putting out fires; we must be one step ahead. It is important that the focus is now shifted to preventive work and better coordination of the promotion of well-being and health. This is also important from the point of view of our economy. When we manage to help in a timely manner and when the aid is correctly targeted, we will avoid, in certain circumstances, the more expensive corrective services that would be on the side of more expensive special care, for example. Of course, these services are always needed to some extent. In making such a major reform, we must ensure that we do not forget the perspective and the voice of those groups who cannot influence this point themselves. For example, I would like to remind you that children's voices do not belong on these decision-making tables or halls unless we adults systematically bring these voices there. Child budgeting is therefore a prerequisite for the comprehensive implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. I hope that this reform will ensure that the welfare areas that are now being set up are given responsibility and an obligation to carry out child impact assessment and budgeting in their future work, a duty for us adults to ensure that children's rights are realised. On the subject of student care, too, we must now ensure that this administrative transfer genuinely improves the quality of services, not weakens them. However, it is important that the basic purpose of student care is maintained. Mr President! Companies and organisations have an important role to play in the field of social and health services. We can't do without them. We must therefore ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises in this sector will continue to have a genuine chance to survive as part of the service field and as part of the tendering process, and I believe that the intention in the government's proposal is to do so. It is extremely important that we also safeguard the role of organisations in the reform process. We have heard a great deal about the finances of municipalities and cities in this Chamber today. It is important that municipalities continue to be given the opportunity to take care of their statutory obligations and duties. We must also succeed in securing the ability to invest. The model that has been negotiated is certainly not perfect, and it hardly exists, but I believe it is certainly better than the previous one, and now is the time to move it forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u155	Now that the four hours allocated to this are in the process of being filled, I will give the ministers two minutes to speak, and then let us go to other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u156	Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to respond briefly. — Sofia has just summed up well: the model is certainly not the best possible but it is good enough for this particular situation. I am very pleased that we have obtained such a strong majority, however, in support of finally getting this structural reform through. In this regard, many other representatives spoke in the same direction. Mr Bergqvist also raised the issue of leadership, and I think that you would have said more about it soon. I think it is very important, and Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's own speech also described in more detail how social and health care management should be developed in these following years. I also think it is a resource in which we could be much better. There were a number of interventions in the area of local services. In this debate, it was intended to suggest that the government would be making reforms that would focus on services, but here is a reform on the table that would specifically ensure that local services remain close. There's a set of passages about that. I do not remember, however, that at the level of the law, too, it has been ensured that the availability and accessibility of human services is ensured. The question was also raised as to the cooperation of organisations: Article 6 of the Act on organisation states very precisely how municipalities and the welfare area cooperate in this cooperation, and also Article 7 states very precisely how this future welfare area and the other wider organisation and municipal fields cooperate, i.e. rights and obligations are very well described there. As far as student and student care is concerned, we are not taking these services away from school, even though Mr Koponen was worried about that for quite a reason. On the contrary, we have now very directly transferred all these services under special medical treatment and should come back from it. Mr Sarkomaa asked when it would be time to reform the content. We will bring this treatment guarantee to this Chamber again, and much more detailed content reform is under way. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u157	Minister Paatero, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u158	Mr President! This was a question of financial predictability, and it is indeed very necessary. After all, the criteria in this draft law are how much need-based, condition-based, population-based, and HYTE. But these variable amounts of euro, which have already been monitored two or three times here, always come again after we have the municipal accounts and, on the other hand, when the municipal budgets come. Now this latest change, which is available on the social media reform.fi page, has come from the fact that the THL criteria have become more precise with regard to the latest data. This is also a continuous process, that when the social welfare reform comes, these changes will then be changed according to the THL criteria, because this set of criteria will continue to evolve from now on. So there will be no such individual... Or there will be a single cutting point when the funding of the social welfare area will change, but these criteria will change before then, depending on the funding of municipalities and these foundations of the THL. I was a little concerned about the atmosphere in this debate that people are not currently relying on public services. I believe there was a study last week in which the public still have a great deal of confidence in public services, such as civil education services, technical services, social services and health care services. I am pleased about this — and I am also pleased that our public staff feel that their work is relevant to a large extent as well. These two criteria must be met. Parliament will continue to be the one to decide on this funding for the welfare area, ladies and gentlemen. Just as we decide here on state transfers to municipalities, we will also decide on the financing of welfare areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u159	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u160	We will now resume the debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u161	Värderade Talman! Behovet av en vårdreform är ett factum. Det behövs förändringer för att vi även i framtiden ska få så bra vård som öjligt, Oberoende av var i Finland vi bor. Målet med vårdreformen är en jämlik vård för under. Här är det viktigt att notera att Jämlik vård inte behöver betyda att vården ska utformas exakt läädant i hela vårt land. Livet ser oilka ut på landsbygden och i staderna. I städerna är avstånden kortare och det finns flera olika älsovårdscentraler att rija mellan medan det på landsbygden kan vara flera tiotals kilometer till närmaste älsovårdsstation, och till specialvården kan det vara oftast ännu längre. De raus skillnaderna måste tas i beaktande då vi utvecklar vårdreformen. En modell passar inte överallt, det måste få finnas utrymme för regionala lösningar.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u162	Mr President! At first, we must praise the Minister for his very determined progress in the preparation process. Surely both the Minister and the whole of Finland share the idea that structural reform, which can meet both the challenges of too small municipalities, the growing social costs and the current health inequalities, is necessary in our country. I hope, however, that at the outset, not only will the need to be ready define the work of Parliament, but we can also genuinely address the challenges of the reform proposal here and possibly improve them. The Law Review Council has assessed the laws governing the organisation of social welfare, health care and emergency services. They say that the objectives of the proposal and the main proposals give a good impression, but the impact assessments vary. The impact on businesses, on the overall public finances and on New Zealand would require further consideration. I myself participated as a representative in the preparation of the previous social welfare solution in both the municipality and the province. Despite the active preparatory work, I found myself opposed to the previous proposal, particularly for a few reasons. It was cutting funding for low-cost cities for both social services and services left in municipalities. Uusimaa and Helsinki as a whole were also too large an organiser unit, so there probably wouldn't have been a similar group in Finland. In this new proposal, New Land and Helsinki have been consulted on the latter challenge and welfare areas are forming in the region, mainly within the limits they themselves want. The correction has also been made in the limitation of the functions of the welfare area only to social and civil protection services. I hope that this limit will be quite precise. In addition, transition periods have been extended to better meet the realistic need. As far as the first financial challenge is concerned, there were some corrections in the post-consultation negotiations, but I do not think it is sufficient. Mr President! We must bear in mind that the health inequalities that we want to correct primarily with the reform are not only regionally divided, but also within regions and cities. Indeed, we cannot make solutions where the adequacy of services in some regions depends on a large proportion of the population using occupational health services there, to which the President-in-Office of the Centre referred at the end of the war negotiations, or even less so: acquiring health insurance more than is currently the case. This is not the direction we want to pursue. Funding should be sufficient and ensure rapid access to treatment in all areas. Funding should also ensure high quality research and development. Much of the potential of the rise in long-term costs depends on how the work can be organised in practice, whether preventive well-being work can be increased, whether the incentives now presented are sufficient to do this and whether access to primary health care will be accelerated by a large group of patients. Mr President! The one-stop shop principle of reform is good. It will benefit the most vulnerable. Integrity and functional care paths improve the experience of treatment, its quality and can also bring savings. The green handprint is reflected in the draft law compared to the version of the opinions made in the summer, especially in the financing of growth municipalities. We received changes to the government's proposal, such as a coefficient for population growth, and minutes, which will aim to better reflect, among other things, the different language groups and the significant differences in property costs within the country. This is how the coefficients based on morbidity and, in particular, on long-term illnesses will be developed in the future, but only in the future. Mr President! In such a small country, there is no room for overlapping costs and investments. Cooperation between public and private and third sector actors must function smoothly, although the main responsibility of the public organiser must, of course, continue to be borne. This is reported to have been confirmed by the draft stages. I hope so. I am most surprised by the cutback in funding for services remaining in municipalities, i.e. welfare services, the management of education and employment. The idea of reform is to equalise health inequalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u163	Madam President! The most important thing is to stop jumping people from one door to the other. In this context, I think it is all right to say that when the 2005 Kainuu administrative experiment was launched, we were already able to try this so-called democratic model on larger shoulders, but the funding base came from the municipality, and there was also its own pain spots. But the integration of social and health services, as well as basic and special level services, ensures uniform service packages, services that affect customers and cost-effective services for society. The social welfare reform ensures equal and equal services for people regardless of the size of the purse or the place where they live. The move from municipal-based to regional-based services is a huge step forward for those who do not have a regional social group. So for such things, which at the moment function on a municipal basis, this is a very big change. This will achieve regional equality when the services are provided by larger self-government regions than the municipalities. Each welfare area designs operating models as well as local service points, e-services and services that may be concentrated in well-being areas to meet the needs of the population in such a way as to ensure accessibility and accessibility of basic services. There are many speakers who have already referred to this funding in the financing model of the reform. There will be no reduction in funding for any region. In some areas, funding is growing more slowly than in others for some years, but since at national level funding is growing along with the need for services, each region receives more money per capita for social services each year than the previous year. The financing of well-being areas is largely based on needs, which is fair and justified in terms of reducing health and well-being inequalities. The main financing criterion is the social welfare needs factor, which determines about 80% of the social funding of the social welfare regions. Funding takes into account, for example, differences in the age structure, morbidity and socio-economic factors of the regions. The adequacy of funding and the sustainability of the system need to be closely monitored and further developed and corrected as necessary. In the longer term, the reform will have significant savings potential. The reform will create opportunities for operational reforms that can slow down cost growth without undermining services. Mr President! The reform will bring social services under a larger organiser's authority, which will improve the coordination of services and guarantee the organiser sufficient resources to provide more demanding services. It is important that one operator has the power of decision. This will in particular improve the operating conditions for primary health care when people are not to be transferred from their own property to the next one. This has, at least in part, been the case with an increase in expenditure on specialised medical care. The basic level of investment is not only human but also economic, and above all I would stress that, if access to basic services is a problem, it is reflected in the increase in the cost of special care. At the moment, we have The problem with Kainuu is the availability of doctors to health centres or local services, and this is now very strongly reflected in special care. Well-being areas provide services that fall under their responsibility mainly as public services, and the private and third sectors could also act as service providers, at least I hope. Strengthening equal public health care avoids the risks posed by total outsourcing. — — — — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u164	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! We're in a historic situation. Today we have received a proposal to reform Finland's social and health services. The reform has been going on for a long time, for more than ten years, and it is a huge entity that affects every single one of us in Finland. It is important that this package has finally been brought into this Parliament, and at the same time it must be remembered that, in general, such reform processes are the most difficult to move forward in politics, but I believe and trust that we will finally be able to complete this. It wouldn't be a moment too soon, on the contrary. We must have social reform now, because our services are increasingly unequal, and this development must not continue. The inequality of services means that many older and unemployed people expect unnecessary long-term access to the doctor’s office. In the care of the elderly, access to services has become more difficult, and there are major differences in social services, such as child welfare and disability services, based solely on the municipality of residence. This reform focuses on basic services and brings responsibilities to the wider shoulders, making use of and improving the existing system in many ways. In my speech, I would like to highlight a few key points about this big picture. Mr President! I think it is particularly important that the proposal now tackles the issue of maximising hard profit in the health and social sector. The proposal is based on the fact that people's tax resources are spent on better services and not on hard profit. There will be a stop to extensive total outsourcing. This proposal will strengthen the multi-producer model, which will ensure that small companies and third-sector organisers will also have better opportunities to act in the future. There is a wealth of know-how, knowledge and know-how that it is important to make use of in the provision of human services. Here, in particular, the Coalition Party has drawn attention to this multi-producer model, and it can be found in the Government’s proposal on page 196 and also on page 20 and in paragraph four — if anyone has not bothered to read, I wanted to make it clear that it can be found there, a strong multi-producer model. The funding of future welfare areas also speaks and has caused confusion here in the Chamber. It is important to open up this financing model and it needs to be dealt with carefully. A mechanical cutter of EUR 3 billion has been removed from this proposal by the Marin government in the last period. This is how massive surgery has been abandoned. I would like to remind everyone that funding for all welfare areas will increase compared to the current situation. The proposal to finance this government's social welfare reform is largely based on the need for services, which is why growth is faster in some areas than in others. Everyone understands that there is a greater need for funding to provide services in areas where, for example, many elderly people live. We have responsibility for every person, every Finn, and no one’s health depends on the postcode. I am therefore pleased that this reform will strengthen local services, which are important to us. Social services for children and young people must also continue to be provided as a local service, both in schools and in educational institutions. This social welfare reform has been backed up by laws and objectives relating to better management of people. We have made progress with the care of the elderly, we are promoting the care guarantee, we are strengthening basic health care and we are making mental health services a stronger part of basic health care — very much important, substantive laws — and, alongside all of these, we are moving forward with this important whole of health care. Madam President! Now we must work together to achieve this reform. It is essential for the reduction of Finnish welfare and health inequalities, for a more cost-effective system and for future challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u165	Madam President! Although it is a serious matter, it could be said at the outset that this speech came a little quickly, but I was prepared. — — — — I am not going to make another in-depth speech, because I have already used one, and I am not going to pollute the views expressed here either. After all, in politics there are different views on such important and big issues. However, I had thought that I would take the second floor, which is where I am going to focus on this funding, because it has perhaps been the most debated on this reform. There will certainly be a change in certain figures, as we know, because these need-based funding figures will be compared in different years to the annual accounts and budgets, and so the changes will be different. However, I would like to open this up a little bit, as much as it can now be done orally here in a brief speech. This dynamic of how the funding of the welfare area will change is admittedly quite complex. Mr Zyskowicz in that previous debate compared this to the state's share of basic services, and I thought the comparison was quite apt. There is, of course, only the difference that, in this case, we are funding 100% of the funding with these specific criteria and that the central government shares in basic services cover just over 25% of the cost of their services. They too have changed over the years. During my long career, I remember quite a few different central government participation criteria there in the central government share of basic services. In time, disease was measured by age-standardized mortality, only by it. It was then measured by the disability index for persons under 55 years of age. Then came such a coefficient of certain folk diseases, and now it has become a little more diverse. In this reform of social security, it is much more thorough and diverse, as of course it should be. After all, there are three factors which have an impact on this funding, and they then have a number of sub-factors. Of the total, which, of course, is 100%, rescue services account for 2.3%, with social and health services accounting for 97.7% of the total. The impact of a clean population is 13.1 per cent. I am consciously using such a term as ‘clean-cut’, although the officialname is ‘resident’,becausethere is a certain confusion between this and the fact that many people think that the change in the That's not the case. When the population changes, people come to or leave the welfare area to meet the needs, the need for social and health services, which is 79.6% of the total. In fact, that is why the demographic change is so much more significant. But then there is a clear change in population, which was 13 per cent. Visitorism accounts for 2% of funding, population density 1.5%, welfare and health promotion 1.0%, bilingualism 0.5%, Sami 0,013% and archipelago 0.1%. It must be borne in mind that 0.1 % represents EUR 20 million here, which means that even the series behind the comma are quite significant. After all, this will start with 19.9 billion adjusted to the current level of 19.9 billion in 23 C.E. It's gonna be something between 20 and 21 then. After that, based on the overall estimate of the needs of the country as a whole, funding will start to grow by 1.2% in the first two years and 1% thereafter, and when these come after each other on the interest rate principle, the overall impact will be 7%. Then it is influenced by these various needs, which I mentioned earlier. However, the message here is that when we have the cutters there, that the funding of any region cannot grow beyond a certain limit because of these factors of need, nor will it decrease, it will considerably dampen these effects. In fact, that demographic change remains very significant.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u166	Mr President! Understandably, the Government's proposal for funding has given rise to a great deal of debate, especially in Ostrobothnia and Uusimaa, which is why I will concentrate only on this theme in this speech. In Ostrobothnia, criticism of funding has mainly focused on the fact that, according to the Government's proposal, the region would receive relatively less funding on a needs-based basis than that used to date to produce social and health care services. This is largely due to the fact that Ostrobothnia has spent more money than many other regions in relative terms on social services and that: The inhabitants of Ostrobothnia are relatively healthier than, for example, residents in Eastern Finland. However, after the summer consultation, the Government proposal was modified. This made the compensation system clearly better for Ostrobothnia, among other things. The increase in the bilinguality coefficient, and in particular the change in the ceiling of the transitional adjustment from EUR 150 per inhabitant to EUR 100 per resident, substantially improved the funding of Ostrobothnia from the previous proposal. Mr President! In this context, it is worth recalling that during the last term of government, a model was introduced for regional social welfare funding, with a lower bilinguality factor and no permanent transitional adjustment, but instead with a cutter for the increase in costs of EUR 3 billion. With the presentation of the previous period, for example, the financing of Ostrobothnia would have decreased immediately by approximately EUR 300 per capita. It is also worth noting that this calculated loss of funding for the so-called healthier well-being areas in relation to the current situation is, however, limited to one variable in a complex package of funding. Mr President! Let's open it up a little bit more. The financing of well-being areas is initially determined by the sum of the costs transferred from municipalities. In 23 C.E., each of the 22 welfare areas will receive the same funding as the social welfare and health care and rescue services, which the municipalities have shown in 22 C.E. — adjusted by an increase of 1.2% and a change in cost levels, as well as by financing possible new statutory services. From now on, funding will change according to a multi-factor formula. The state of cost, i.e. inflationary change, will completely replace it. Similarly, the State will compensate for the new statutory services and the future costs associated with the increase in the demand for services due to the ageing population. The share of each welfare area depends on the needs of the region. These need factors include bilingualism in the region, the proportion of foreign-language speakers, islandism, population density, the effectiveness of promoting well-being and health, the number of inhabitants and so on. However, the most important proportion, about 80%, is the social and health care needs, which are estimated on the basis of a total of 132 statistical variables. This share is also linked to the development of the population, as per capita funding is always multiplied by the number of inhabitants, so the funding will be taken into account, contrary to what has been claimed, also in the financing of the growth of the population of growth centres. It should also be noted that funding is reviewed annually on the basis of estimated growth in the need for social welfare services, increased cost levels and possible changes in tasks, and where appropriate, the state will also provide additional funding for welfare areas. Mr President! In other words, at a time when the financing of welfare areas in the years 23-29 is increasing in real terms from 8% to 10% and, of course, taking into account inflation even more, there will be a calculated loss of 0.1 to 2% in the so-called healthier regions of our country and a corresponding increase in funding in the so-called sicker regions. Thus, the overall funding will also increase in these so-called healthier areas, such as Ostrobothnia, so the opposition's claims about the need to reduce social and health care staff, among other things, are completely unfounded and incorrect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u167	Irade fru talman, Madam President! Jag har variant med i politiken sedan år 2009. Så länge har vi diskuterat kring vårdreformen, i was etapper. Först var det kring kommunreformen och sedan har det variant kring landskapen och också kring de raus stora specialområdena, alltså de fem erva-områdena. Och det auri handlar ju förstås om en valdigt stor helhet som har variantt aktuell över tioår. Ur det perspective är det valdigt viktigt och bra att man diskuterar det rauta vajdigt genomgående. Men trots att det har variant flera versionner så tycker jag att det är lage att gå vidare nu. Det är ög tid att göra vårdreformen klar. Målet är ju att alla finländare ska få en jämlikare vård. Det kan vara väldigt stor skillnad mellan oika kommuner då det gäller till exempel åldringsvård och Barnskydd, men också tillgång på läkare. Vården berör ju precis ala, ala åldrar, allt från rådgivningstjänster till de äldres omsorg. Integrationen är viktig, och precis som det har sagts arv tidigare så kommer man nu att sammanbinda specialsjukården — jag brukar säga att det är centralsjukhusen — sedan också primärhälsovården, alltså hvc:na, och sedan sociala sidan, som kan vara endera socialt arbete eller äldreomsorgen men också barnskydd till exempel. Här tycker jag att man i discussionen kanske me brode lyfta den ox sociala biten som har litet lämnat effecter. Det väsentliga är ändå att man har ett enluckesystem så att man inte blir punchad från en instans till den andra. Jag skulle också säga då det gäller den ox finansieringen som det har variantt en hel del diskussion om rai i salen, att om vi jämför med andra alternativ, till exempel ur Österbottens perspectiv, så är just det rää alternative det allra bästa, om vi tar till exempel den oxi TVåspråkighetsaspekten som är en valdigt bidragonde orsak till den herheten. Därför stödjer jag att den raus versionen nu godkänns och att valfärdsomådena bildas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u168	Madam President! Today is a good day: the proposal for social welfare reform has come to Parliament. That is certainly what we have heard said several times before, and it would have been desirable to have succeeded in the efforts that have already been made. However, it can be considered that the proposal is now highly refined. After all, it's been getting a lot of speed from the last few times. There has been a large number of opinions from the Constitutional Committee and the Administrative Committee which have been able to mirror what is possible and what is not possible. It is necessary to note that, in this Chamber today, it has been stated in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that it has not been possible to implement the grandiose model which has often been heard from the people of the United States. The provincial model of the government is a proposal that has been tested in the Constitutional Committee and the model of that test has also passed. Last season, there were many criticisms in this Chamber of the model proposed at the time, but, just like today, this province model is precisely reducing by hundreds and hundreds of dim parts, leaving 22 welfare areas. In particular, the reform of social welfare and health care is about the fact that services play and are equally available throughout Finland, i.e. that elderly people will receive good care in the future, that the challenges of children and young people will be addressed in time, that Finnish diseases will be prevented and that they will be caught in time to avoid expensive special care. The aim of the reform is also to combine social and health care services in order to avoid data gaps and to find the right assistance in a multi-professional way at the right time for people's challenges. Funding will be solved in such a way that money will be distributed across Finland as necessary, especially in relation to ageing and disease, but also in relation to the population base. Where you are ill, you will also need social and health care services and funding. It is good that the criteria are further developed. It is necessary to identify more precisely the needs of people in occupational health care and ill health and social services, among other things. In this major reform, the distribution of money and the relocation of services will also change the decision-making of municipalities a great deal as the organisation of social welfare and health care services is transferred from the responsibility of the municipalities to the municipalities. Among other things, very important tasks of education and training, land use and the provision of sports and cultural services remain in municipalities. Finally, about Etelä-Savo and Lapland: The performance states that Savonlinna and Kemi would be able to keep an on-call and cutting hospital until 2032. I don't think it's good to have dates like this. These provinces of two central hospitals and hospital districts should be given the opportunity to decide for themselves on the survival of hospitals. The maintenance of hospitals is much influenced by cooperation between the erva area, the division of labour, how doctors can work together and how doctors and other professionals can operate in several hospitals, but also by the centralization regulation. The concentration regulation in the statements last winter should be amended in such a way as to allow cooperation in the erva area, for example in terms of the number of cuts. For the sake of human safety and health, we can no longer afford to reduce hospitals that provide demanding special care. However, this reform is about how services will eventually be put into practice. The reform provides every opportunity for good treatment for Finns and for us to be able to become less ill and to be better.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u169	Mr President! I wanted to reflect on the role of the services remaining in the municipalities in the reform. The idea of the reform is to equalise health inequalities, and this, as I said, should not be done at the expense of the education services of any municipality. This casting error is common to both this and the previous social performance. In this respect, lessons have not been learned from previous tests. I do not see a sensible solution for the future of any country to cut relative investment in education or transfer funds for education where a growing number of children and young people live. The proposal to move student care to the welfare area adds to this concern. However, the proposal has sought to ensure that student care services remain at least at school. It is important that sufficient personnel continue to carry on the tasks of community student care and, fortunately, the binding dimensions of student care are progressing as agreed in the Government negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u170	Mr President! The reform of the social welfare and health services must finally be brought to an end with honour. Many stumbling blocks are probably still ahead, but we need to find ways to achieve an important goal, and we are now on the move when we are far from halfway through the parliamentary term. Ensuring the continuity of the Nordic welfare state requires the existence of effective public health services, and this requires a radical reform of the organisational structure of public health care. The solution has not been advantageous to anyone, so the common goal should now be to implement the social welfare reform as quickly as possible, but carefully and carefully. The reform has a key role to play in raising productivity, which is the only way we can achieve long-term cost savings. A mere new organisational structure and so-called wider shoulders in public health care do not automatically improve productivity. Harmonisation of health care providers' systems is absolutely necessary to improve the efficiency and smooth operation of services. Greater mobility of people creates the need for greater flexibility in the use of services. This requires a better and smoother flow of information between different organisations. This applies in particular to public health care. There's clear information bottlenecks there, too. Of course, taking care of information security is of paramount importance in all circumstances. A common, comprehensive database and information exchange open to all healthcare professionals would improve efficiency and eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy and duplication of unnecessary work. Increasing efficiency and cutting red tape are at the heart of cost savings. Skilled and clear-cut management of the whole is of paramount importance for the success of any efficient large organisation, and health care is of course no exception. The effectiveness of well-being areas should be constantly monitored and reacted rapidly to the shortcomings identified. Mr President! It is important that so-called multi-disciplinaryism is still possible. In other words, the welfare area can acquire services from a private company, as is the case now, but the welfare area must always take care of its own service production.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u171	Madam President! I was going to say a few words to the opposition, but not because the opposition is no longer present. All we have here is the people who, during the parliamentary term that began in 2003 — the centre and the SDP — were creating the Best project, which has been praised many times in this Chamber today, and after that, a long effort was made by the various governments to reform the war, which have always fallen. As I said during the day, that group and those governments have always been united by the fact that the coalition has sat on those governments. But once again, there's a lot of dirt being built on the red soil, and that's a great thing. It is a very large package of laws, which is now being sent to committee — and only to the members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. I would like to point out, which may often be forgotten, that while we are building legislation here, what is included in social and health services and everything related to them, and even though we are talking about administrative models, that work is done in those municipalities and regions. And I must also say that much has already been done there. Today, examples have been thrown around from different parts of Finland and from different regions and regional actors, and I believe that they would not have been achieved without the work that previous governments have done, the hard work and preparation that will now contribute to the completion of this reform. But this reform is not ready at this stage, as we know, but a great deal of work is ahead of us, and all the questions that relate to the content — where we get the medical staff from which we get the workers — we have before us also after the adoption of this legislation. Above all, the need for this reform has been identified and is evident, and I believe and hope that it will finally be possible to tackle it. Above all, this clarifies and streamlines the organisation and production of our social and health services, and it does exactly what has been sought, namely to simplify the services and the chains. As has already been observed in many small municipalities, the construction of social centres, the easier and faster access of people to these services, and the provision of these services in the whole country is now being ensured, not only in central cities or urban areas, but also in smaller municipalities and rural areas. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic moment, and let us remember it. As I said, I wish you strength in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u172	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 16/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u173	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, the measures will be decided at the sole reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u174	Mr President! About a hundred years ago, the law on compulsory education in Finland entered into force for 7 to 13-year-olds. That was the time that the second part of Väinö Linna’s North Star trilogy tells us about. It took almost 50 years for the next major structural reform that had to do with primary school — our one diamond. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read a brief extract from R. H. Address by Oittinen, five times Minister of Education, at the SDP party meeting in 1949. Excerpts from the speech: ‘All children are provided with the opportunity to obtain the education that ‘The new school’s social situation should also be ‘Internal reform must also be based on a determined effort to develop teaching andeducation methods,in which Mr President, the speech by R. H. Oittinen, Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Education and Training, was wonderful, wonderful and wonderful in 1949. Many education experts have been talking about it in recent years, and I have also been involved in how the role of the school in building social cohesion is even more topical in Finland in the 21st century than in setting up comprehensive school, because the income gap has become steeper, the population is divisive and the country is multicultural. Equal education for all the population, children and young people, has been and will be a key pillar of democratic democracies in maintaining social peace even in difficult circumstances, and educated young people are also the dynamo in which Finland will succeed in competition with the nations. Now this government proposal to extend compulsory education is a multi-dimensional reform. One aspect that has been much on the agenda and which I think is important is that this extension of compulsory education removes one risk place where you can choose yourself out of the school path — that is, 15 to 16-year-olds choose themselves out. The extension of compulsory education would ensure that public authorities would have more opportunities to support a longer study path. Mr President! In the Government's proposal, all under 18-year-olds would always be subject to student guidance either in comprehensive school, secondary education or with the responsibility of the municipality for steering. The principle is described in the words ‘with effect from a change’. In the model, control and control responsibilities would be defined in such a way that one entity’s control and control responsibilities would cease only when the other entity’s control and control responsibilities began. In the model proposed by the Government, the suspension of secondary education is only possible in a situation where a substitute place of study is known. Targeted support and guidance would be provided to those considering the exchange of education. This chosen line supports and strengthens the continuation of the educational path by preventing interruptions and possible educational exclusion and exclusion without a secondary degree. Which means you're not left alone, you're not left alone. This legislative package of government creates a stronger structure for support and guidance for students and students. This includes the government’s significant additional contributions to student guidance — they are very significant and they are absolutely central to this whole issue. But here too, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that it is not enough to extend compulsory education alone. You can never overemphasize the importance of comprehensive school. Discontinuation of secondary education is often due to poor skills acquired in primary school. Therefore, basic skills in reading, writing and mathematics must be in better shape when leaving school. Among other things, therefore, the Government is working with the Finnish National Board of Education to create a new type of, more effective student evaluation. Finally, Mr President, I would like to quote the view of a non-attached, impartial expert: the child representative is in favour of extending compulsory education. — Like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u175	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson was a great review of the history of compulsory education, and I shall begin by briefly reiterating what is happening here at the moment. The compulsory education age thus rises from 16 to 18 years. The reform will enter into force from 1.8.21 and be implemented by age group at a time. The reform will move towards free secondary education. In addition, the mile limit for secondary school travel aid is reduced from 10 km to 7 km. In the context of the compulsory education reform, joint education between primary and secondary education will be strengthened. The student volume of folk high schools is raised from 500 students to 650 students. A new set of preparatory education will be created in the post-basic education phase. This can be called a third way, for example, alongside upper secondary school and vocational education. The steering resources of young people will be increased by nearly EUR 15 million in basic education, joint phase and secondary education. In full terms, the total cost of compulsory education reform in 2024 will be EUR 129 million. Public funding for education is approximately EUR 16 billion per year in Finland, including the section of OKM, the central government shares of municipalities and municipal funding. The scale of compulsory education reform must be mirrored as part of this whole. The Government's proposal to extend compulsory education must therefore be seen as a broad overall solution to education policy and as a guide for the coming decades. The confrontation between children and young people in life is unnecessary and does not lead to anything. Talks about specific measures alone are the thinking that has kept up with the prevailing fact that about 15 percent of our young people still lack a secondary degree. It's an unsustainable trend, and that's why we have to do it and we don't have to do it. We need this pragmatic and common sense structural reform. President! Enlargement of compulsory education, just as Mr Gustafsson said, will not solve, for example, the challenges of young people's exclusion, educational attainment, life management or employment. All stages determine the meaning of each stage of life. Of course, allocating resources early enough in primary schools and early childhood education is absolutely essential. These other measures, together with the extension of compulsory education, constitute a whole that strengthens equal opportunities and well-being for children and young people in a variety of ways. I thank the government for allocating significant additional funding for basic education and early childhood education. In the years to come, it is absolutely essential that the bottom endures and that future governments, whoever they may be, see the importance of this. In addition, an additional EUR 250 million will be allocated to the recruitment of teachers and instructors in vocational education and training, which means between 4000 and 5000 additional staff years in the daily life of vocational education and training. The opportunities for leisure activities for children and young people will be improved by creating the Finnish model and financing it with approximately EUR 14 million per year. It is also a good model for the years to come and for the future governments. There will be a great deal of work to be done on the implementation of the compulsory education reform. Municipalities and education providers need all support in implementing the reform. It is unlikely that any practical problems or challenges will be avoided during the first few years. However, the forest must be seen as trees, and the whole will certainly be constructed better than the present state. In order to get out of the corona bog, Finland must have the courage to undertake structural reforms, which I understand have also been encouraged by the opposition. The Ministry of Finance and many economists see compulsory education investment as repaying themselves and strengthening the long-term balance of public finances. President! Ensuring more effective safety nets for children and young people will ensure better social and working conditions. The centre wants to support Finnish young people and their families now and always, offering them the best opportunities to survive in life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u176	Mr President! Every young person must obtain at least a secondary degree. This requires that the basis for learning is in order. The best school path in the world means permanent investments from early childhood education to secondary education. Increasing the level of knowledge and education requires strengthening the quality of education, adequate guidance and support services and support for individual school paths. The Coalition Party has presented its own option to help young people and to secure a secondary degree by tackling the causes that now lead to the failure of a secondary degree. The Government's proposal, on the other hand, does not achieve the objectives set for it, nor is it based on evidence of research. Mr President! In our objection, we propose that from 1 to 30. the rejection of the draft law and the adoption of 12 statements. Mr President! I shall submit a motion for rejection in accordance with protest 2, and I shall also make the following statements: ‘1. The Parliament requires that the government prepare an updated proposal for the renewal of preparatory education without extending the compulsory education age. 2. The Parliament requires the government to take measures to reform comprehensive school so that every person who completes comprehensive school has sufficient basic knowledge and skills at second stage of study. 3. Parliament requires that the government implement fixed-term programmes for quality and equality in early childhood education and basic education as permanent programmes. 4. The Parliament requires that the government implement fixed-term vocational training teacher and director resources on a permanent basis. 5. The Parliament requires that the government urgently prepare a proposal to increase the household allowance for the private education provider. 6. Parliament requires the government to reform the funding system for upper secondary school education in order to ensure adequate basic funding. 7. Parliament requires the government to prepare a proposal for a model for early childhood education support. 8. The Parliament requires that the operating opportunities of upper secondary schools be secured for a special educational task. 9. The Parliament requires that the upper secondary education system be maintained in such a way that upper secondary education and vocational education continue to have their own operating laws and financial systems. 10. The Parliament requires that the reason for dropping out of compulsory education may be to move abroad as a professional athlete. 11 o'clock. The Parliament requires the government to ensure that compulsory education students are provided with accident care and other compensation as part of the education free of charge. 12. Parliament requires the government to assess the impact of the statement made by the Constitutional Committee in its opinion on Article 16 of the Constitution. It has been extended to include legislation on compulsory education and other legislation on education. The Government shall report to the Committee on Education by 1 May 2021 at the latest.’ These are the statements. Mr President! It is worrying that even this assessment of the latter statement as to what effect this would have had did not have on the government parties, but that the package of laws was dashed through by the majority of the government parties so urgently that there were obvious problems which would have to be returned to them in the future. That is why it would have been very justified for the government to return to this issue in the Committee on Culture as early as May. For its part, the fact that the committee adopted 22 statements shows that this package was not yet complete, but was very busy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u178	Mr President! I have been waiting for this bill for a long time, in fact, throughout my parliamentary career. When, for the first time after my election to Parliament, I was asked what I wanted to do in particular in my work, I already said that I thought it was important to extend compulsory education. Why? Because extending compulsory education is an important measure to reduce inequalities in education. In Finland, the inheritance of education is particularly strong, and in recent years the inheritance of education has even strengthened, which is reflected in particular in the application to upper secondary school education. I know many young people for whom high school would have been a reasonable option, but, for example, because of the family’s bad financial situation, they did not want to go there when they knew that the family was very tight anyway. On the other hand, as Mr Gustafsson has said on several occasions, not all young people between the ages of 15 and 16 are mentally mature to make decisions for the future, and not all families are sufficiently encouraging young people to continue their studies or, for example, to go to high school. Keeping young people in compulsory education will help them to make more family-independent choices on their educational and study paths. As compulsory education continues, education continues to be more favourable in the development of young people. The aim is therefore to help everyone on their own learning and learning path and thus to ensure that everyone completes at least a secondary degree. Holding on to the youth longer ensures that everyone finds their own way towards further studies and working life. The municipalities must now create structures that will enable each young person to have sufficient support and help in making these choices. Good models exist in different parts of Finland, but some municipalities are still in the process of building structures. A multiprofessional approach to the overall situation of young people is particularly important. Finland needs the knowledge potential of all, as we can only compete in international competition with a skilled and well-trained population, and that is what this bill is all about. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u179	Mr President! I hope that this reform will lead us in the right direction, because it is a common goal for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u182	Mr President! Today, the report of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs is at Parliament's second reading. The compulsory education law was dealt with quickly in committee because the government had tabled this as a proposal for a budget law. I believe that, in this situation, it would have been necessary to clarify the different effects, taking into account the line of the Constitutional Committee on the interpretation of Article 16 of the Constitution. I am a person of principle, and if anything is done, then it should be done properly, and that is why I have to leave a record which reads as follows: ‘In its opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs,the Board of Governors and the Constitutional Committee This will remain subject to ex post evaluation. Further consideration is required at the level of ordinary legislation, at least as follows: the concept of basic education, which, in the interpretation of Article 16(1) of the Constitution, extended to education after the Basic Education Act, the scope of the education free of charge for non-students and the right and obligation to participate in compulsory education after basic education, in relation to the fact that the provision of the education in question is not a statutory obligation for any person. In this respect, I believe that the committee should have expanded its deliberations.’ Mr President! What is the background to this protocol? In its interpretation, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs deviated from the position expressed in the Government’s proposal as regards Article 16 of the Constitution. The Constitutional Committee considered that all compulsory education is basic education within the meaning of Article 16(1) of the Constitution. This provision safeguards the subjective right to compulsory education. In the future, therefore, some secondary education is included in basic education from the point of view of the Constitution, although according to specific laws it is not basic education. The main challenge of this report relates to a change in the basic situation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs' interpretation of the law on compulsory education and other laws on education should have been properly assessed and made necessary changes to the present proposal. The majority of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs did not even accept that we should have called on the government to assess these effects later. Challenges arising from this change in the basic design will arise in the future, both in terms of legal terminology, free teaching and in the organisation of education. First of all, from terminology: When the Constitutional Committee considers that all compulsory education is basic education in accordance with Article 16(1) of the Constitution, it is necessary to consider how to distinguish between basic education in accordance with the Basic Education Act and basic education in accordance with other legislation. This will pose practical challenges when the law is applied. The Ministry of Justice also stated in its opinion that such a model proposed by the government would create a complex regulatory technical entity. The second relates to the limitation of freedom of payment: the limitation of freedom of payment poses challenges in a number of groups. Take, for example, adult students who undertake upper secondary education. However, the aim of the law is to increase the level of education and skills across the board, i.e. the delimitation is not in line with the purpose of the law and is in line with the objective of the law, and therefore I do not believe that adult students should have been excluded. Well, then there are young people of different ages who have not completed basic education but are not covered by the compulsory education law, for example, within their age, i.e. young people who lack basic skills but who are in secondary education, and these are mostly immigrants. The third group is so-called undocumented and similar children and young people who are of compulsory school age but who do not have a permanent place of residence in Finland in any municipality. Then, as the fourth group of these challenging border groups, the transition students are present. For example, in the same high school next autumn there may be three different categories of years, and only one, the first grade, will receive free secondary education in this situation until 18 years. For example, an individual course in the same upper secondary school has students in different grades of years, some of which are free of charge and some are not free of charge, and this is happening in the transition phase. In this transition period, it cannot be argued that there are sometimes stages and situations in which some people receive social security too, some of them do not. This cannot be invoked because social security is often not a fundamental right, but it is now classified as a fundamental right. Then there is the impact on the organisation of education: The new compulsory education law introduces an obligation for young people to take part in compulsory education. Unlike basic education, municipalities or public authorities are not obliged to organise upper secondary school or vocational education. This method of regulation can be regarded as problematic, because ultimately the Constitution requires that the public authorities safeguard fundamental rights and human rights. In conclusion, the Committee on Education and Culture should have gone through all the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal, together with the Ministry of Education and Culture. We made a statement for adoption of the committee's report in relation to the amended interpretation of Article 16 of the Constitutional Committee and the related need for amendments. It is a problem that this impact assessment of the impact of the interpretation of the Constitution on education legislation in general and the legislative proposals contained in the Government proposal at hand has not been carried out, because in future compulsory education will be basic education from the constitutional point of view, i.e. all education up to the age of 18 will cause problems in the implementation of this legislation. Next autumn we will be in a challenging situation, for example, when students complain about policies such as free of charge. It is difficult to see that negative decisions and decisions restricting the free movement of students will last,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u183	Mr President! Extending compulsory education is a good thing that everyone should be allowed to complete secondary education. The problem with this government’s proposal is that the compulsory education age is only 18 years old. Many of these young people, particularly those who are now affected by this and for which I think this is being done, the 15 % of the age group, study for three years, are able to reach the age of 18 at the time of school, and I do not think that this bill will change this percentage very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u188	Mr President! With regard to the Coalition Party, the Finns and Christian Democrats, we have heard that instead of extending compulsory education, funding for this should be allocated to basic education and early childhood education. I do not think that we can put them against each other; we need both. We need quality early childhood education and basic education. We need investments in student and student care, student guidance and all the support that children and young people need in both early childhood education and comprehensive school. This is what the government is doing. Nevertheless, the opposition parties are contrasting them. It sounds like opposition parties want to do everything they can to ensure that the second level of equality free of charge does not come to Finland, just as they have now demonstrated by proposing to reject this law. Now, however, for the assembly, comprehensive school reform is the cornerstone of our country's expertise, although it was opposed at the time when the bill was discussed here in Parliament at the end of the 1960s and at the turn of the 1970s. Mr President! According to the Finnish National Board of Education report, up to a third of upper secondary school families face challenges in coping financially with the cost of studies. In addition to studying, some young people have to work to be able to finance their studies. The youth barometer of 2017 shows that economic reasons influence, for example, the decisions made by young people at the place of study or cause them to delay their graduation. 17 per cent of young people say they have reduced their study options due to lack of money, and nearly half of young people without a degree or place of study have had to reduce or give up their studies because of lack of money. Two thirds of young people who responded to the Youth Barometer 2018 were in favour of extending compulsory education to secondary education. More than half of the young people who dropped out at one point expressed their support for the presentation. This tells us why free secondary education is extremely important. It has also been suggested that reform should be postponed. With regard to compulsory education and free education, the reform would enter into force at a time of age, which would further scale the implementation and costs of the reforms, including for education and training providers. The main aim of the organisers is to increase the employment rate, so if the entry into force of the reform were postponed, it would also shift the employment impact of the proposal. In addition, the reform has a positive impact on the position of young people completing basic education, so it has been considered important that young people who decide in the midst of an epidemic of interest rates in basic education should be covered by extended guidance measures and ensure a smooth transition to secondary education, despite the exceptional arrangements created by the corona epidemic. For this reason too, Mr President, it is extremely important that we move this bill forward. Mr President! The cost of education has been criticised and it is justified that it is expensive for society. However, according to the Economic Policy Evaluation Council, a two-year extension of compulsory education would generate a long-term fiscal benefit of around EUR 140 million. In this case, raising the compulsory education age would be fiscally neutral, even if substantial investments were made, for example, in student guidance and special education. For its part, STK estimates that extending compulsory education to 18 years of age may be the most effective single employment measure in the government. It can increase the employment rate by up to 4 percentage points. Measured on the basis of the current population, this would mean some 150,000 new jobs. The Vesa Vipriälä report entitled ‘In the context of the economic policystrategy crisis,‘enlargement of the obligation to study isrecommended as According to the OECD, the level of education needs to be raised again in Finland at all levels of education. Everyone must be guaranteed the opportunity to complete secondary education, and that is what the government will do. Mr President! This is a historic day. We are dealing with two major reforms, the reform of social welfare and health care, and now the extension of compulsory schooling. This reflects the fact that the Marin Government and now we as Parliament leave a strong mark on the future, which history books thank many times.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u189	Ärade talman, Mr President! Den utvidgade läroplikten som debatterades förra veckan rai i salen får en fortsättning nu, och tanken är att vi ska höja läroplikten från 16 till 18års ålder samtidigt som andra stadiet blir avgiftsfritt. Precis som ledamot Kiljunen bull lyfte fram så är det ju viktigt med tanke på sysselsättningsåtgärderna. För vi vet att ungefär 15 percent av årskursen bland de som inte får en andra stadies utbildning och 40 percent av de som enbart har en grundskoleutbildning har jobb, och det är är ju ett wastetort glapp och det rai måste vi ta tag i. Kulturutskottet gav ju uttalanden kring det rauh och jag tänkte lyfte upp några punkter ox. En sak som är viktigt är alltså att vi ska stärka hela utbildningsvägen, alltså allt från småbarnspedagogicen och framåt. Det är viktigt att det rai inte enbart är i slutändan, det är viktigt att poängtera i den oxten. I do not give Sak är förstås de språkliga rättigheterna, att de ska beaktas är och att vi hittar kometent personal, egentligen för alla delar och att de utbildas, kanske nu framför allt då studyhandledare och också då en del yrkesskollarare som det är stor brist på. Det är också viktigt rai att notera att vi följer upp och utvänderar det rai, för det handlar om en stor reform och vi är ju inte i mål med det rai, så det gäller att se på consekvensbedömningarna.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u190	Mr President! This is the main reform project of this government, i.e. a proposal to extend compulsory education to 18 years of age. Sote was here earlier in the debate, and it is certainly very important, but when you think about funding it and about quality activities, you need training, research, innovation and so on. This compulsory education reform is due to enter into force next year, 1.8.21, the same year as the compulsory education law turns 100. The reform can be compared with the reform of primary schools decided in 72 C.E. This extension of compulsory education has met with a great deal of opposition, just as the reform of primary schools in the 70s has been. However, time has shown that the reform was the right one. The Finnish education system is internationally valued and recognised. It has also been the basis on which our country's high level of knowledge and thus the welfare society has evolved, and knowledge is the key to success in the future. However, the world has become more complex and challenging and the demands of working life with it. Although comprehensive school provides us with good basic knowledge and skills, secondary education is also a necessity — and the majority of young people do it in upper secondary schools and vocational studies. Unfortunately, however, about 15 % of young people do not complete secondary education, and this proportion of people have a significantly low employment rate, just over 40 %, compared with over 71% of those attending secondary education. The employment rate of university graduates is about 84%, which means that education plays a major role in employment. This is therefore also a strong employment policy project in the long term. As has been said here in the past with these forecasts and estimates, the STK estimates that extending compulsory education to 18 years of age may be the most effective single employment measure in the long term and can increase the employment rate by up to 4 percentage points. In addition, the Vesa Vipriälä report ‘In the context of the economic policystrategy crisis,‘enlargement of the obligation to study is seen as a common Mr President! The extension of compulsory education age includes second-degree free-of-charge, which is also very important, a big hand-out for many families, especially low-income families, where the purchase of children's study materials, books and machines causes a big gap in income. This is a real problem. According to the youth barometer 2018, up to a quarter of those who dropped out of secondary education reported that the lack of money had contributed to the lack of studies, and nearly half of young people without a degree and a place of education had to reduce or give up their studies due to a lack of money. One argument against this reform has been that we should focus more closely on these problems and that investment in early childhood education and primary school is already needed — and that is the case, and that is what the Marin Government is also dealing with. This extension of compulsory education includes ways of escorting the student over these joint stages so that a suitable field and place of education for each young person can be found. The student is not left alone, but is always the responsibility of someone, either the municipality or the organiser of education. The Government is therefore also aware of the need to invest in this learning already in the past, and that is why resources are being allocated to early childhood education and basic education to address learning difficulties and other problems that arise in children and schoolchildren, student care is being strengthened and resources become available for student guidance. Mr President! Finally, extending compulsory education is an investment in the future and an investment in our young people, the drivers of the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u191	Mr President! The resource provided by the government for extending compulsory education was not allocated correctly. In practice, the money goes entirely to bus travel and equipment, not to support young people in need of education or help individually and in a targeted way. There is a risk that when the government's budget funding is not enough, as the committee's consultations say, it will not be enough, then we will have to compromise the quality of education and increase the size of the groups even further. Mr President! Raising the compulsory education age to 18 years does not guarantee that the upper secondary degree will be completed. The second level continues when the student turns 18, and the well-known student does not stay in school. After all, we have a situation where almost the entire age group is seeking and continuing to study at secondary level, but still 15 per cent is left without a secondary degree. According to a report received by the committee, there are about 4,000 young people in today’s basic education who neglect their compulsory education. Reflecting this fact, the government's argument that there is a forced solution to drop-out in secondary schools is not credible when, under the current system, so many pupils are already failing compulsory education. Experts’ criticism of the government’s model has been strong, and teachers of educational science and academic experts, such as principals, have opposed the reform to a large extent — so they are opposed to extending compulsory education because they do not see it as an effective way of doing so. Mr President! Representatives of the government parties convince how the government invests in early childhood education and basic education. The problem is that in practice all those investments are one-off project money. It must be applied for separately, it must be reported on its use. This is not a long-term strengthening of basic education and support for the early years, which are now most urgent and long-term, in order for each young person to complete a secondary degree.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u192	Mr President! I can't wait to say to Mrs. Sofia Vikman that, admittedly, there was a lack of money in the government programme negotiations — there will continue to be no matter which party. In the negotiations, we increased permanent expenditure in the section of the Ministry of Education and Culture by EUR 230 million and over EUR 700 million for these important scheduled items. I myself believe that now, after the next elections, we will see what is needed, for example, for the development of comprehensive school in terms of financial resources, resources. The same applies, of course, to upper secondary school and vocational education. I myself have the impression that if, for example, this government base continues, we will be happy to keep it about its type, but we now know from the corona and others that no one here can do the same thing and say that it is just like this. But I do not think there is much credibility in the assembly when, on the other hand, you are constantly criticising the fact that the government spends a lot of money there and here. Well, that's it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u195	Mr President! Of course, we all agree that it is really important to achieve a secondary degree. It'll help you get a job, and it'll help you manage your life. But this does not yet ensure that the degree is completed. For those of us who are opposed to this, the question is not that we do not want to support education, but simply that resources go to the wrong place. What we want is for there to be more teachers, smaller groups and, in particular, local education at an earlier stage, and precisely the multi-professional support for these problems that we young people have. After all, some economists swear by this, just as the government parties have said, and that is where this calculation is based on the fact that 1600 jobs would come by 2029 and then 15,000 would come by 2065. Mr Gustafsson, it was quite right to say here that in the long run — yes, in the long run, in 65 C.E. — we are no longer, Mr Gustafsson. On the other hand, educational scientists are not in favour of this. So we have probably been with Mr Gustafsson in a different committee,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u202	Mr President! I've seen too many young people fall and I've seen what it looks like when a young person gives up hope and dreams and feels meaningless, falls on the edge of society. That should never happen, and that is why, as a schoolteacher, as a child welfare worker and as a therapist, I warmly support this proposal. There must be structures, resources and capabilities in this country that each child and young person has the opportunity to pursue their dream profession and their own dreams, and that is one way to take this society in that direction. It is extraordinary to listen to the criticisms of the assembly when considering previous educational cuts. We could have saved quite a few young people earlier with a different policy, but fortunately this is a different direction. I fully agree that this is by no means an adequate means. This is one way. In addition, of course, we must invest, just as the government has now decided to do, in support and guidance, both in early childhood education and basic education, in the whole long chain, from the early years to the threshold of adulthood in which the second stage takes place. I also fully agree that we should also better integrate this field of education and social security into one, because neither are the mental health or substance abuse problems, the family challenges or anything that must not affect the fact that the degree cannot be completed. We should talk much more about this. But I am very much in favour of this secondary education being now free of charge. I think it is completely pointless to say that until now it has had no effect. If you live in a family where there is no extra and there is only enough money to do what is necessary, it is absolutely certain that it will have an impact on whether or not studies are free of charge, regardless of the fact that they have been supported in the past. I therefore give my warm support to this government proposal and I hope that this will help to prevent any young people from falling or leaving without a secondary degree.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u203	Mr President! It is clear that we share the common goal that it is important for each child and young person to have sufficient basic skills and to have at least a secondary degree. In fact, I would say in concrete terms that it would be important for every child to learn to read, count and write before moving to a third grade. Last week I talked to a teacher who taught in the seventh grade and said what she would do if she saw already at the point when she did not have enough reading and writing skills in the seventh grade. It is precisely that we should look there in the early years. Many colleagues here have said or pointed out that as many as 6,000 young people each year end comprehensive school without sufficient literary and mathematical capacity, and that is why these thousands of young people are at risk of being excluded from society — and have been identified. What did we do about this last season? A few years ago, when the study said that there were two things that meant that secondary education was interrupted over others — they were inadequate learning skills and the wrong choice of the field — it was precisely the early years of the lack of learning skills, the shift of attention, the reduction in group sizes, the significant reduction in early childhood education fees during the last period, and there was also the free experiment of early childhood education, which has now been extended. But then, last season, a major reform of vocational education and training reform was carried out for this wrong choice of sector, which introduced a continuous flexible search. Now, if there is a feeling in November that this sector is not my area, you can apply constantly and flexibly for vocational training next week. I myself was the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Oulu Vocational College, OSAO of the Federation of Education and Education for the fourth year, and we 2018 even set up this kind of Ovi service, i.e. any young person, although not even at that stage in vocational education, can open the door that was at that early stage next to the City Hall and go where are special support people, counselors, on the spot, and will be viewed and tailored to that student a path to learn. This good reform of vocational education and training has made this flexible, continuous search possible and, if used by the providers of vocational education and training, it has been possible for the third year now to be true. Hundreds of young people have obtained vocational training through it, or some have even returned or reapplyed to upper secondary school. But there are indeed a few things about this increase in compulsory school age and free of charge that are especially likely to share this hall. Insufficient funding leads to cuts in education. Here in the Chamber of Parliament, we parliamentarians do not have to contrast early years and free of charge, but many of us have to do so at municipal level. This was also mentioned in the Administrative Committee, where I myself was vice-president. Due to insufficient funding, the government's proposal would lead to a situation where the costs of raising compulsory education and paying for them would have to be offset by reducing the quality and quantity of education. Among other things: The Association of Local and Regional Authorities brought this up, but not only did it appear in the statements, it reads in the government's own proposal. The Government’s proposal states that ‘if the costs of extending the obligation to learn were to rise to the higher than estimated in the proposal,’ —and hesepäppiThe Ministry of Local and Regional Finance estimates10million —‘training providers This is indeed from page 101 of the government proposal. These would be direct cuts in education, and this Chamber will not make those choices, but many Members in the Chamber will then make those choices in the coming years in the municipalities. Mr President! In addition, the timetable has been tight. Of course, the government has every right to decide which government proposals are to be dealt with as budgetary laws, but when it comes to such a major reform, it is regrettable for our social debate and democracy that the government decided that this is a budget law and that this will be dealt with in a few weeks and not at least in those few months. We had a referral debate on this just over a month ago in this Chamber. Is this good governance? Is this good legislation? Well, at least I can see that I don't. The timetable for the reform has also been inappropriate from the point of view of local government budget planning. The preparation of the municipalities' budgets, if we are talking about good governance and respect for democracy and our system, should always be based on existing legislation and not on speculations about laws that may come into force and their effects. Mr President! Now, a tight timetable has led to the fact that this law is not in force, but a large number of municipalities, almost all — probably the last budget councils today — have had to prepare and many have already adopted their budgets next year on the basis of estimates and possible laws to come into force. This is a problem. A minimum requirement for a good legislative procedure would have been to clarify the constitutional aspects and the overall economic and operational impact before the parliamentary procedure. In this respect, it is easy to agree with Mr Risiko's recent broad and good speech on these constitutional aspects as well. And equality and equality will not come true. We have areas where there are half the students in education who are not under 20 years of age.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u204	Mr President! The hearings of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs clearly highlighted three key critical lines in relation to this government proposal. Firstly, the timetable for implementing the laws is completely unrealistic. Secondly, the funding provided by the government is not on a sustainable basis, which in practice results in cuts in the quality of education, for example in increasing group sizes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u209	Madam President! I've been working with young people at risk of falling. I have encountered difficulties in life management, career and future have been lost, strengths have not been found, there are many failures behind, mental health problems, motivation is also lost. There is a need for them to be raised and a wide range of means and cooperation between the various actors involved. There have been many experiments in Finland. A great deal of money has been spent over the years on various experiments, and there is certainly good knowledge and experience, but the number of young people who have been excluded, who have fallen, has persisted despite these numerous specific measures. For this reason too, it is worth extending compulsory education in a flexible way. As has been said, the reform will pay for itself in the long run when we pick up those who fall and are excluded. Therefore, the reform does not have to mean direct cuts in education. This reform tailors each school path according to its strengths. The young person will be walked by hand over the joint phase and adequate support and guidance will be provided. In the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, we have recorded a number of statements which we talked about in a good spirit, and we have recorded them there so that they can be taken into account in the implementation of this comprehensive structural reform. We talked about special education, student guidance and, overall, this joint phase. Reference has also been made here to this opinion of the Constitutional Committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs took the lead in extending compulsory education from the point of view of fundamental rights, and I am sure that President Risikko also referred to this. When the situation was new, this interpretation of the Constitution became that, in the light of the Constitution, extended compulsory education is basic education, which must be free of charge. Of course, this new approach, which was carefully and in consultation with many experts, will have an impact on future legislation. I personally see this reform as a right to learn, and it was also stated in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that although there is much talk here of coercion and coercion, in the light of the Constitution there is still no school obligation in Finland. For example, vocational education and training can be carried out as evidence, and the upper secondary school can still have an exam. For myself, too, I see the great importance that this is also a hand extension for poor, broke families. Since fundamental rights are at stake, we cannot limit the freedom of payment to just some. I see this as the construction of a child-friendly and educational-friendly Finland and as important as it was in the past when we set out to support young people in situations where they do not yet fully understand their own interests. Since every young person is valuable, it is worth keeping them all involved. This is not out of early support, investment in early years and comprehensive school. I also think it is very important. I think it is important to build a complete school path where everyone finds their own talent and strength. No matter how favorable the beginning of the school path, difficulties may arise along the way. That is why it is necessary to keep everything involved until the age of 18.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u210	Madam President! Although this issue is now closed and this process has been very instructive from the very beginning, it is all so important a bill to ensnar the future of our children and young people into adulthood that this is why I want to bring here a few things that I still have to think about. As has been said several times here, the opposition is demanding that the extension of the free compulsory education age should not be accepted, but that the opposition propose to reject this law. One of the things that has been brought here is that we want more local education and more teachers, and that is something we are all probably all agreed on. And it has been said that this law does not address the so-called root causes that refer to the problems children and young people have in learning. It can be said here that both these are issues in which we must intervene and in which the government also intervenes. Firstly, when we have discussed and are about to continue with the reform of social and health care, it is precisely for this reason, to which reference has been made, that we should be able to help children and young people and their families, in principle, even when they are small, in the reform of social welfare and health care, through, for example, a strong Lape and then also through the placement of pupils and students in schools, specifically addresses and strengthens this problem. This is what I have had in South Karelia for ten years now, and we have both municipalities and schools, educational institutions and our Eksote have been satisfied, and it is being developed and strengthened all the time. Ten years, and we can say that we are just on the road, but the results have been good. But then, when it is said that services should be concentrated precisely on learning these young people, that we have the Right to Know development programme, and its aim is to ensure the quality of vocational education and training, which is now being invested in 270 million and, in accordance with the Government Programme, to strengthen the services of student and student care at all levels of education and to provide binding dimensions for the provision of education services, which are also funded. In this respect, these concerns, which have now come from the opposition, have been addressed by the government. But I must then say that it has been somewhat confusing to listen to this. During the last period, when these same things were going through in a slightly different way, the government, under the leadership of the Coalition Party, cut all levels of education, depending on how it was calculated, by EUR 690 million. And the biggest cuts were directed specifically at secondary vocational education, from which the government cut nearly EUR 250 million, of which EUR 190 million were directed towards basic vocational education and training, and EUR 19 million was removed from additional funding for apprenticeship training. In practice, this meant that we were laid off well over a thousand teachers. Now the same people are criticising the government that the government should rather hire more teachers, while a few years ago, just in recent history, they themselves are working in a different direction. At the same time, the funding from universities was reduced by EUR 110 million, which resulted in our universities, the universities, having been negotiating in almost all universities and universities. In that respect, it is quite confusing to listen to this debate. EUR 45 million was deducted from the funding of basic education, which specifically reduced group size grants by EUR 30 million and reduced quality development by EUR 15 million. We who were here last season remember the painful time when early childhood education was also restricted to the children of the unemployed. Now these subjective rights of the child have also been restored. In that regard, it must be said that it is quite confusing to listen to the demands that are now being invoked, which is why the extension of compulsory education should not be carried out when, under the leadership of the coalition, these major cuts and weakenings were made. Now we want to go back to these things, which in itself is a positive thing. I hope that this line will continue with regard to the majority. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u211	Mr President! The objective of all young people having a secondary education is correct, but the effectiveness of this model of extending compulsory education is limited and uncertain, as we have been talking about here throughout the autumn. There is no scientific evidence of this effectiveness. This model does not correspond to the root causes of the drop-out of studies, i.e. the student skills gap. Each year 6,000 young people graduate from comprehensive school without sufficient literacy and ability to cope with secondary school. It is therefore a mistake to allocate these permanent contributions to only the second level, when learning is already beginning to separate in the lower classes. Early support is the key to learning difficulties and the school path should therefore be developed as a whole. In particular, at this point where we are now, I am sorry that this reform has been carried forward in a compulsive manner without consulting the best experts in the field, even though we know that the solution is not the most effective. I myself have received contacts and concerns from a number of principals on this matter. In that way, we must ask, as in the case of the evaluation of the process: where are the options for achieving the objectives? These could have been the obligation to apply for secondary education, the new skills and youth guarantee models, the higher educational material supplement, the many such instruments that have been on the table and, above all, the investments in basic education and support at an early stage. It is clear that the same resource could be more targeted to take much more effective action. I must also say that in the Committee on Administrative Affairs we have looked at this from the point of view of local government finances, and the funding for this reform is inappropriate. Most of this money flows into travels and free learning materials, the level of which is very likely to fall, not so much into teaching and guidance. Then there is the employment impact, 1600 people in ten years — that is, even after the reform, a large proportion of the age group would not be able to work. Is this effectiveness at its best? If there had been a Minister for Education or a government here, I would have addressed them with the question of whether it would not have been time to take a time-out and seek the most genuinely effective means of achieving this goal. I'm sorry I didn't have the capacity to do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u212	Mr President! Ikonen, a Member of Parliament from Tampere, whom I have appreciated, how to put it now — one detail of your speech when you said that we are now simply focusing on the second stage — is also essential in this reform to make a great deal of effort at secondary school. It is introduced as a new element of law-level enhanced guidance for the eighth and ninth classes, because according to studies and others it turns out that it is not only partly adolescence and because of this situation that some young people, as it were, have a significant fall in education orientation and other things. This is not in itself new information, these studies have been there before, but I wanted to say this now because I understand that you must have looked at and followed this sod and perhaps have fallen short of this compulsory education age. Then I will also say this to you and to the other members of the Assembly that the Finnish Principals, the Federation of Material Teachers, the Association of Class Teachers, support this — well, it is known that the OAJ supports this. So there is considerable support from the organisations, and I do not believe that the OAJ is derived from the top that these are totally independent, autonomous professional or member organisations which have come to this end. They see that raising the compulsory school age has meaning, value, and so on. Then to President Risiko: I do not want to go with you here as if ‘between members’,however,however,but I have all the expert opinions,where the professor’s title has been read,two or three times,and I have a situation like this:MinnaHuotian,education professor,brain researcher,profesorNinaJunttila,JaakkoKauko,professorPatrikSchein,HannaSimola,JaniErola,Turunteacher,AnttiHautamäkiJyväskylä,educationist KatarinaSalmela-Aro. There's eight of these right here. In addition to this, there is an economics project: Tuomas Pekkarinen, Roope Uusitalo, Vesa Vihriälä, Etla researcher Hanna Virtanen and Academy researcher Kati Vasalampi, who is a more educational scientist. Then there are four people who count as an educator who are negative or critical. There is no way that the majority is opposed to it, indeed, and I have those statements here so that we can continue this debate until the morning, but that is the facts. Mr President! No single historical reform will remedy all the shortcomings. This is an historic reform, an increase in compulsory school age to 18 years, and I went through it in my opening speech. And this education system is a whole, which is why the government invests significantly in early childhood education, pre-school education, development of comprehensive school, second stage. Everything needs to be developed, and one correction is not enough, but it is necessary in this social situation, as a key part of the experts in the field of education, for example, have seen that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u213	Mr President! Thank you for these discussions. This is about to be the end of our sitting on this issue, but I would just like to say to Mr Gustafsson that we should not go through those things when we can find what we see with our own glasses and when we know exactly what has been there. Then, to my mind, a little understatement, you said, for example, of these professors that they could be classified as educational scientists. Maybe you should take a little more tat on their CVs. Here I would just like to say to Mrs Kiljunen that — when you referred to the fact that under the leadership of the Assembly there was a cut in education during the last period — I cannot quite understand your understanding of government work. On what basis do you say it was under the leadership of the National Coalition? The government's work is that there are government parties that agree together that such changes will be made, and it is only unfortunately that when money is needed — I know about the five government programme negotiations — it will be taken where it is and unfortunately it will always be social or OKM. And that's horror. Certainly Mr Vehviläinen, who is currently in the chair, none of us would have liked to have had that aspect of education cut off, but that is the way it has to be done. But what did it accomplish? 140,000 jobs at least.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u216	Madam President! Perhaps in the case of such an historic decision, we no longer need to go back a great deal and think about what, for example, the co-operative minister did during the last period, although it is now very much mentioned here that cuts are being made, now that we have increased funding and last season cuts have been made. But I would like to say that when Mr Ikonen here regretted that the Minister for Education was not present, he was present in the referral debate and he was also present at first reading, even though at that point it is Parliament’s work — at that point the Minister has done his own work when he has brought the proposal here — he was there two hours ago. Now we have a second reading, so perhaps it is understandable that the Minister is not here when this is a matter in the hands of Parliament. Madam President! Looking ahead, we agree on many things here, and I am sure that each of us believes that raising the compulsory age alone will not solve any problem. It's one of many ways. So that there is no misunderstanding about the speeches now, there is more to be done than this. A few things that are now being done: The subjective day care right was returned full-time. The early childhood education groups have been reduced, the early childhood education premium reduced, and these two measures aim to increase the participation rate in early childhood education, which has a proven impact on learning outcomes and on coping in the future. In addition, an experiment will be launched on a two-year preschool which should have the same effects. But not only will we invest in early childhood education, but also in comprehensive school before the second degree. The student care of comprehensive school is invested in, the prevention model for school drop-out is introduced and the statutory obligation for student guidance is introduced. The stakes are approximately EUR 350 million. In other words, we agree that this alone will not be the solution, and we will be doing a lot of other things. I just want to say that there is no idea that this is the only issue of education policy, even though this is a huge reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u217	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u218	Mr President! I would simply like to make this statement, which is in protest: ‘The Commission requires that the government ensure full reimbursement of the costs to the municipalities resulting from the transition from the municipal experiment to the transition to the All in all, this trial of municipalities is an excellent thing, but it is important that the associated costs be reimbursed to the municipalities. After all, this was the subject of a debate when the report was brought to the first reading that it makes sense to give it to the municipalities. It certainly makes sense, and that is where the jobs are, and that is why it is important that this municipal experiment goes. But it is important to take this forward precisely in such a way that the costs have also been taken care of. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u219	Mr President! I support Mr Risiko's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u220	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u221	Mr President! I would like to make a statement in response to the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u222	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u223	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u224	Mr President! We are now continuing the possibility of distance teaching in connection with corona. We have had an excellent debate in that committee, and I would like to say here that we have taken this opportunity for distance learning seriously and have also considered the right to learn and to have access to local education. We have come to the conclusion that, of course, we will continue to do this, but there is a great deal to be done to assess these effects. After all, today is the day when research results have been published on the effects of distance learning over the last spring and there have been both good and bad results. That is why it is very important that every time this law is extended, those effects are assessed. On the other hand, however, I think that this distance education and the care and care of the young person and of the child are developing all the time. In that sense, I think it is important that we have the possibility, on a lower threshold, of not always having to bring a piece by piece to this Parliament such a law of access to distance education. In other words, I propose that the Ministry of Education and Culture now seriously evaluates the possibility of using distance education in schools at a lower threshold, for example in exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u225	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-14-ps-165.u226	Mr President! This also has to do with this corona situation, the epidemic situation. Now that this has happened in such a way that those trips have not so much come and then make it more difficult to receive school travel support, the change was made here to relax these rules and criteria for obtaining school travel support — a very important issue at this stage. That is exactly what we must do to ensure that this is done. These are small things, but the economic livelihood of many families is at stake if they fail. I am very much in favour of moving this forward quickly. - Thank you.
