ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-97.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 15/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-97.u2	Mr President! Indeed, this promotion of international vaccine research is enormously important and, in particular, in this pandemic situation that we are facing, we need rapid progress in order to get the situation under control. It is necessary both for public health in Finland and globally, but also for national economies around the world. This lockdown situation, which has prevailed all over the world, has also caused the Finnish economy to lose billions of dollars a week. In this respect, although we can be hopeful that the entire global scientific community has gathered its strength to promote this vaccine research and progresses, I would nevertheless see it important that there should also be serious consideration in Finland and certainly in cooperation with other Nordic countries as to whether we should have national or at least joint Nordic vaccine research and production. Finland has a great history of how vaccines have been developed, and we have also been a world leader in vaccine coverage – for this, for example, our fine maternity clinic system. Finland creates a good framework for medical research thanks to our high expertise, but also thanks to many public health registers, which can be used responsibly and securely here. Therefore, I would see that Finland should invest in this. At the end of the day, the national contributions that vaccine research and possibly the promotion of production at national or joint Nordic level require are very small in relation to the potential economic losses in the face of a pandemic that we have now had to face this spring. This is very important for this vaccination to progress on several fronts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-97.u3	Mr President! This is an important step in international vaccine research and the development of vaccines, and it is great that Finland is now participating in this international cooperation. In the draft amending budget, the Parliament approved that EUR 1 million should be added to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health's International Payments item (IPA) as the cost of joining the IVI, half of which, EUR 500000, will be allocated to the IVI's basic budget as an annual contribution and EUR 500000 for covid vaccine research. This is significant for Finland to be able to develop vaccines in this way in international cooperation, and also in connection with this timely corona vaccine, which is urgent and worth rushing. In the committee, we also drew attention to the fact that we attach great importance to the careful monitoring of the use of funds by the vaccine institute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-97.u4	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Det internationella vaccinininstitutet IVI grundades år 1997 utgående från FN:s utvecklingsprogram, och det är en organisation som framjar forskning och produktuveckling av vacciner och förstarker vaccincapaciteten i ärlden. Det är fint och viktigt att Finland nu går med som fullvärdig medlem i IVI. Det öjliggör att vi kan delta i det långsiktiga samarbetet och samtidigt få viktig information och kan påverka förbättrandet av den globala älsosäkerheten framför allt i utvecklingsländerna.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-97.u5	Mr President! In this regard, colleagues have made good speeches on this issue, which is quite simply good. It was today in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health at the debate on the report, and we have quickly received it here in plenary, and there is nothing to add to the speeches made by colleagues. That is how I would like to see this organisation, which we had a broader debate yesterday in committee than today, that this is an organisation that originally focused on the various infectious diseases of children in developing countries, in particular diarrhoea and such things that hundreds of thousands of children are still dying in underdeveloped countries. But in this new situation, in this pandemic situation, the exploitation of such an existing national network, which has its headquarters in South Korea, is absolutely essential, and that is why Finland should now join in. After all, Finland has had a seat on the board of directors there before, but now this becomes more formalised. So in this sense, the time has given an order for this decision to be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-97.u6	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 16/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-97.u7	Mr President! Disruptions in the availability of medicines are a global problem that has become more common in Finland in recent years. After all, we in Finland have also been very well prepared for exceptional circumstances in terms of access to medicines, but the exceptional circumstances caused by the interest rate showed that our authorities must be prepared to secure the availability of medicines quickly, for example, in a situation where people rush to pharmacies to hoard medicines. The aim of these proposed changes is precisely to prevent the hoarding of medicines and thereby improve the equality of citizens in obtaining the medicines they need, regardless of their financial position, for example. The government's proposal is therefore very good and worthy of support. When we dealt with this issue in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and drew up a report, we made four necessary amendments to the first legislative proposal. In this context, I would also like to say that, as we have just done in the previous plenary, when we talked about business and how we have learned to prepare for business support during this spring and early summer, this situation has also shown that we have also learned to develop our medical care. Now that the provisions of Article 87 of the Emergency Act are still in force until the end of June, we can then secure the availability of medicines by means of these amendments in the future, as the authorities can act without the Emergency Act and then be able to expect all citizens to receive the medicines they need.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-97.u8	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Aittakumpu, who is known as a skilful speaker, has presented this point well before me, and I will not go into it any further. However, attention should be paid to the fact that, on Monday, the Government, in its plenary session, issued these decrees on the repeal of the implementing regulations of the Emergency Act, which came into force at midnight. So from Tuesday onwards, Finland has been under normal conditions, and the provisions of the Emergency Act are no longer in force. Consequently, there is no such exemption regulation in this respect either. It is very important that this issue is now moving forward quickly, and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has done a good job here. I believe that, when Finland survived 75 years without exceptional circumstances — in March, it was quite apparent that there was a need for exceptional conditions in Finland, and the necessary powers of the Emergency Act were introduced in order to manage the pandemic situation and, for example, to safeguard the supply of medicines in this shocking, frightening situation when we were faced with this virus epidemic — it is very important that we now make the changes to the legislation of normal conditions, just as the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, has said in many speeches, so that the threshold for future adoption of the preparedness law is even higher — that we have learned from this crisis that we have now encountered, and that we are developing the legislation of normal conditions so that it is better prepared for all kinds of disturbances and incidents that may threaten society. In this way, I believe that Finns can be confident that for the next 75 years we will be able to survive without exceptional circumstances. I hope we never meet them again. Mr President! After that, however, it is good to remember what the old people say: The damage does not come around the neck of the clock. It is really great and important that Finland is a society that is both legally prepared, but also in practice in the various functions of society through exercises and, for example, with security of supply, that society can be threatened by a disturbance. Thanks to this basic feature of our being such a prepared society, this spring we have managed well to cope with this real epidemic situation. It is part of the basic nature of Finland, and this should be maintained. It is good that this legislation on normal conditions is now being further developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-97.u9	Mr President! Once again, ladies and gentlemen have spoken well, and only in this respect will I be speaking myself if they fail to say anything relevant to this important issue. After all, the pharmaceutical law is a very wide-ranging law, and we have already made some changes to it a couple of times during the winter, and I am sure that it will continue to be the case in this autumn. Now these relate to it, just as described above, that during these exceptional circumstances we are trying to create the conditions for regulating access to medicines under Article 87 of the Emergency Act, and now that it is no longer in force and yet there is a need for such regulation, according to the general ideology, we are now moving them here to the normal legislation, and that is what is happening here. There is also a slight change in the Act on communicable diseases. It is mainly grammatical, which clarifies the understanding of a specific section. It does not actually include such essential changes. Then here, too, this obligation stocking will be improved or the obligations will be specified there. This is very important because, as has already been heard in the speeches, and as has already been mentioned here in connection with pharmaceutical matters, we Finns have had unfortunate experience in recent years that sometimes very important and very much needed medicines may have ended in pharmacies: when it has been associated with the problem of wholesale trade, when it has been linked to international access, raw material problems, and in this way. In this respect, this is an excellent opportunity to emphasise that Finland should really refocus its efforts on developing its own pharmaceutical production, either as immediate neighbours, I mean mainly the Nordic countries, or as national measures. Since we have high - class expertise in these matters, it is important that we also get our own production. This bill was indeed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and changes were made to it which further clarify the content of this.
