ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 4/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 April 2020. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u2	Honorable Speaker! I object to the amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u3	Mr President! I support the motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u4	Mr President! I shall submit my objection 2 to paragraphs 4 and 5e.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u5	Mr President! I support Mr Lepomäki's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u6	First, we will vote against Mrs Levomäki's proposal and then against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u7	Honorable Speaker! I shall make a proposal, in accordance with objection 1, to this paragraph 5e.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u8	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u9	Account will be taken of the proposal put forward just now by Mrs Lepomäki, which Mrs Essayah supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u10	First, we will vote against Mrs Levomäki's proposal and then against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u11	Honorable Speaker! I am submitting an amendment to the validity rule in accordance with Amendment No 1, which wishes to say that the law will remain in force until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u12	Mr President! I support Mrs Vähämäki's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u13	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 6/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 April 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u14	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u15	Mr President! In the Government's proposal for legislation on temporary support for a person who is absent from work because of the corona virus epidemic, it is proposed to provide for a benefit to safeguard the livelihood of people who have followed the government's recommendations to combat the corona virus epidemic and thus acted for the benefit of society as a whole. This is a new benefit, the implementation of which would be carried out by Kela. Support would be paid to parents who have left their work unpaid to take care of early childhood education, pre-school education or basic education from 1 to 3. a child in the classes of years at home. Similarly, support would be paid to parents of pupils in need of special support, as well as to parents of students in need of extended compulsory education and preparatory education. According to the decrees on temporary restrictions on early childhood education and the obligation to organise education and training issued by the Government in the past, for pre-school children and basic education from 1 to 3. pupils in classes, as well as pupils who have been given special support, as well as students who are covered by extended compulsory education or preparatory education, will continue to receive local education. Nevertheless, the government has strongly recommended that parents also keep children of the above groups, as well as children in early childhood education, at home and at a distance. Support would also be paid to those arriving in Finland from abroad who have been directed to combat the corona virus epidemic under conditions similar to quarantine for 14 days and who are therefore unpaidly absent from their gainful employment. The aid would therefore apply to persons who cannot, for example, work at a distance from home or whose loss of earnings is not covered by another benefit. For them, unpaid absence from work is the only option for them to comply with the above-mentioned Government policies and recommendations. Exemption should be agreed with the employer. The aid would amount to EUR 28 94 cents per weekday, i.e. approximately EUR 720 per month. The proposal relates to the second draft amending budget for 2020 and is intended to be dealt with in connection with it. The law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible and would be in force until 31 August 2020. However, the maximum amount of aid would be paid until exceptional circumstances are in place. The Act would apply from 16 March 1920, i.e. it would be possible to obtain aid with retroactive effect from the beginning of exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u16	Before continuing the debate, I will tell you that we in the Council of Presidents will be discussing a recommendation on the length of speaking time on Tuesday. At the same time, when we moved from talking about the toilet to talking on the spot, we removed the 3 minutes limit for talking on the spot, after which the speeches have been quite frequent for 7 minutes, even if they were considered to be on the spot. We now have to consider taking a temporary recommendation when it comes to the location, which would be a little shorter than this 7 minutes. This, as is said in the stock exchange world, can be discounted in advance even in this session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u17	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a clear presentation. The situation of families changed significantly when regional government authorities closed school buildings on the basis of the Act on Contagious Diseases and a large proportion of children moved on to remote education on a very fast schedule. Many parents stayed home to take care of the children and direct their schooling. That's what I'm thanking them for. Thank you very much to the government for this temporary support, which pays such temporary support to parents who care at home for their children less than thirty a day, EUR 720 a month. In particular, families with low incomes are tough, and this proposal supports the livelihood of families under these conditions. The starting point is to support parents who care for children under 10 years of age. It is a good thing that the exception is for children who have a decision on the need for special support and for children who are subject to preparatory education for basic education or extended compulsory education. Here, too, we must take into account the UN Conventions on the Rights of the Child and the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which are also in force under exceptional circumstances. It is great that all minors and their families are taken into account in this. I would also like to draw attention to adults with disabilities. Many disabled persons over 18 years of age may have been forced to stay at home because, for example, their jobs, such as a work centre, have been closed down. Could further consideration be given to their and their family carers in drafting the law? In order to qualify for the aid, a contract of employment or service is required, from which there is no remuneration. Yk-entrepreneurs have been excluded at least at this stage. Of course, they can apply for unemployment benefit and apply for EUR 2000 assistance from the municipality. Homes can have self-employed persons with children of many ages around them, and there is no income from entrepreneurship under these conditions. I hope that their situation will also be reconsidered. This has also been accompanied by returnees from abroad who, according to the government's instructions, are subject to two weeks of quarantine conditions, which means that they cannot work. This includes these expected seasonal workers who are about to be brought to Finland. For them too, a valid employment contract is needed. All in all, this necessary government proposal concerns particularly vulnerable families, whose circumstances may have worsened, especially in the event of prolonged exceptional circumstances. The atmosphere can also become more risky in homes where there has been no previous risk of violence or problem drug use. Mr President! Supporting the livelihood of families is an important issue. Money shortages can make the family’s other problems worse. Money alone, however, is not enough. Multiprofessional support is also needed for families. You can't drive it down in the municipalities. It is an investment in the future. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is still planned to consider family carers and self-employed people with disabilities of adult age to be covered by this support?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u18	Mr President! Thank you for the preparation and presentation to Minister Pekonen. I think this government proposal is a fine and very welcome hand-out for families with children. The aid is intended for a parent who is unpaid out of work because of caring for one or more children under 10 years of age at home during a corona virus epidemic. Access to the allowance is conditional on the parent having an employment or service relationship and the child having a place of early childhood education, pre-school education or school which has been frozen at home due to prevailing exceptional circumstances. According to statistics collected by the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Regional State Administrative Agency, around 78 per cent of those in early childhood education, 84 per cent of those in pre-school education, 91 per cent of those in first- and third-class classes and nearly 93 per cent of those in special support decisions have been home at the beginning of April. In the light of the statistics, it is estimated that some 24,000 families have taken children out of preschool education or early childhood education as a result of the government recommendation and that some 50,000 are now eligible for this new support. In addition to families with children, persons arriving in Finland from abroad who have been directed to combat an epidemic under conditions similar to quarantine are entitled to the allowance and are therefore unpaidly absent from gainful employment. It is estimated that around 10,000 new-benefit persons arriving in Finland from abroad would be entitled to a new benefit and, overall, families with children and some 60,000 persons arriving from abroad. Mr President! Before this new form of support was reported, many families had become deeply concerned about the family’s livelihood. Many parents have lost their livelihood when they stay at home to care for their child under the age of 10 or who has received special support — not everyone can do telework. Special concern has been expressed by those at risk who have felt that they have had to choose between their livelihoods and even the lives and health of their children. Up to now, families have been able to apply for housing allowance and income support as well as laid-off unemployment benefit. However, not all families have been entitled to these benefits, although, fortunately, the criteria for granting income support have been relaxed during exceptional circumstances, so this new fixed-term benefit is a very important guarantee of income during this period, and at the same time it also sends a message to parents who have left home without hiring their children to care for them, that we thank you for taking part in the fight against the corona epidemic and that you are at home with them. I hope that, with this new fixed-term benefit, more and more people will now, during exceptional circumstances, have at least some sort of livelihood that could carry citizens through times of crisis. Mr President! The government has done a good job in this particular and surprising situation. Entrepreneurs, laid-off workers and municipalities in need have received and are receiving help in this difficult situation. We have granted entrepreneurs unemployment benefit without the need to stop business activity, to remove the days of self-responsible unemployment benefit for laid-off workers and to relax the criteria for granting income support, and this proposal now under discussion is an important addition to this list. I would like to thank the government, because these actions can also be considered as steps towards basic income. Of course, many further steps are needed to genuinely talk about the basic income that belongs to everyone, which would not have to be applied for separately and expected to progress in the processing of applications, but every step taken in the direction of the basic income is a good thing, and thank you for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u19	Mr President! It is wonderful that concerns about the parents of special children are unfounded and that these families have now also been taken into account. It is simply not possible for everyone to take care of a child at home while working at a distance. It is good that such a temporary exceptional benefit can be provided so that families with children do not have to drift away from their paid employment as a result of becoming a customer. Secondly, since the arrival and guidance of passengers returning to Finland from abroad failed in the early stages of the epidemic, it is good that the situation is now being corrected. In the context of the necessary commuting traffic, people from abroad are still coming to Finland. I understand that these people do not want to remain in voluntary quarantine so that their livelihoods are not jeopardised. This benefit is an incentive to remain in quarantine, thereby reducing the number of infections and the number of people affected. Of course, the evaluation of the target group as a whole is challenging, so it remains to be seen how well this is going to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u20	Mr President! This support for caring for a child at home is very welcome. Thus, many people do not have the opportunity to work at a distance, and in practice they are forced to leave on family leave. We know — whether there are more than 100,000 single - parent families in Finland — that it is especially the support for them that there is only one parent at home and that he may be forced to stay at home. Then the family’s livelihood will be reduced even more, and it is good that even such a small support will be. Well, when we have a lot of single-parent families, we can now come up with a few problems in these courtships too, considering that the second, even if a distant parent who is not necessarily a guardian, is now laid off and could take care of, but the other spouse then, a close parent, who is the actual guardian, does not agree to change these appointments and is afraid that there may be a sideline of maintenance payments when the other one takes more care of them. This should become a little guidance, and I hope that now even families, even broken families, will be able to reconcile them a little. Then here are these seasonal workers. This support is now being granted to them too, and it is estimated that 10,000 people who would have a contract of employment in Finland and who would be coming here would be eligible for this support. The amount of EUR 4 million will then go to Kela, and farmers will benefit from this. And it is all right that they get employees if you don't get Finns — if you don't get Finns. But then, when that foreign seasonal worker is supposed to be in quarantine for 14 days, then usually he'll be on a farm somewhere where these seasonal workers come together. Well, we know it's a little slow to get across the borders, and then when they get here, the farms would be hoping to get them to work right away. There may then be a problem that we should ensure that they do not work there on the farm if they are applying for this aid, that there is no duplication of action. We'll have to keep an eye on this, then.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u21	Mr President! This government proposal replaces the loss of earnings caused by unpaid work, absenteeism to provide child care to prevent the spread of the corona virus epidemic, and it is good that parents and families are taken into account if the mother or father or close parent — whom this law now applies to — remains to care for a child under the age of 10 and thus prevent the spread of the corona virus. This law concerns a child in early childhood education, a child in pre-school education, a child from the first to the third year of basic education, as well as a child who prepares for basic education and who has received special support, as well as those who come to Finland from abroad and who are then quarantined during this quarantine period and during that period are also eligible for support. Mr President! It is estimated that some 50,000 people in Finland would receive this support and some 10,000 from abroad, and the amount of the aid is EUR 723 per month. It is obtained by a person who has an employment relationship, a service relationship or a valid employment contract. I would like to ask the Minister how to deal with zero-hour contracts if a person has this: is he entitled to the aid? I also ask about the situation of sole proprietorships. Is it possible that the government's proposal could also take even more account of entrepreneurs, that is to say, they should be entitled to this support for entrepreneurs and not need to use this support for their child's care, but that it would be a clear support to the fact that the child's care is also entitled to this support? Then one of the things that has come up very much is the situation of family carers, and most of them children and young people over the age of 10 who are disabled, mentally disabled, with some form of disability. Is it possible that the law could be flexible in their case, that even if you were over 10 years old, the parent would have the opportunity to stay and care, and even if you were 18 years old, you would still have the right and the opportunity to stay? We know that situations are different, that children and young people are different: there are very severely disabled, very severely mentally disabled young people and children, and when we want to prevent this viral infection, it would be reasonable to think of it all in common sense that these people would be at home in home care and there would be as few contacts as possible. In what way could we make it possible? Yes, parents and families are really distressed there; just as the families of elderly people are also distressed by the families of disabled children and young people. Despite the quality of the injury, people would need that support. How do you answer this question because it would seem humanly right to act in such a way that it would be possible for even a little older person to receive this support, his parents to receive this support? Then I'll ask you about seasonal workers. Apparently they and their families are arriving here in Finland, and just as Mrs Lehto has already pointed out in this debate, so how are we to monitor and ensure, however, that there is a need for the worker on the site to remain quarantined and then, when the parents are in charge, or the other parent, the child, then they will receive that support? Mr President! All in all, a good presentation. It will be valid until the end of August. Of course, for money we can always wonder whether this is enough, but this is a good hand-out and support and tells parents that the work at home is extremely valuable and important and also encourages people to remain on unpaid work and then make a contribution at home to caring for the child. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u22	Representative Kiviranta, followed by Minister Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u23	Mr President! The difficult situation of many families with children will be eased even slightly with this support. Due to the situation of the Korona virus, many parents have remained at home due to the recommendations and have not been compensated for gainful employment as a result. In addition, the situation of people returning from abroad may have been very challenging when they have not had the opportunity to go to work. Of course, the amount of aid is not very large and does not compensate for the loss of earnings, but it is still a step in the right direction. Mr President! This temporary support is one of the signs of the Government's determined work to help Finland and Finns in an unprecedentedly challenging situation created by the corona pandemic. The situation has been reacted quickly and efforts have been made to ease the difficulties faced by both companies and individuals, which will inevitably be caused by the crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u24	For me, this half-hour watch, the time calculator, got started a little too early. Well, we still have time to take representatives of Laiho and Rehn-Kivi, at least before Bako.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u25	Mr President! This proposal suggests that the parent, who is the government’s 16.3. In line with the recommendations made, care for the child at home and is therefore on unpaid leave from his or her gainful employment, it would be possible to receive this support. It would average EUR 723 per month. It would improve the financial situation and livelihood of families where the parent is unpaid and has no earned income. Any other benefits and taxation will then have an impact on the impact of the aid on the income available to each person. This requires that there is an employment and service relationship in force in Finland, and there would be no entitlement to a benefit if a person is working at a distance, on an annual leave or on any other leave from gainful employment, and there would also be no right if the person is absent because of layoff or unpaid leave for a reason other than caring for the child. In addition, this benefit would be paid when people arriving in Finland from abroad who have been quarantined for 14 days, and this also applies to seasonal workers who come to work in Finland. It is a good thing to be able to provide some financial support to parents who stay at home with the child. In that respect, income is better secured. This is to be welcomed, although the timetable is challengingly urgent, and that is also why opinions on this matter have not been sought from different quarters until this bill has been brought to Parliament. This is coming to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health next week, and I am sure that there will then be a more detailed examination of the matter, and opinions have also been requested for that meeting. On the basis of this proposal, I see the issues that have arisen, the problems that have already arisen in this Chamber. It is a matter of the situation of entrepreneurs. That, too, is the question that has been put to the Minister as to why entrepreneurs have not been involved, and also in this situation of self-employed workers, whether this could be taken into account in this context. Of course, there can be no overlapping benefits, but it is good to have them involved in this too. The second point was the family carers for young people with disabilities, those who are therefore over 10 years old and who can take part in day-care activities, for example. Now that even that daytime activity has been limited because of this epidemic, they also need more care at home. Could they be taken into account? And the zero-hour contract people, how do you define their situation? Then it may be that some questions may arise, which is why, for example, laid off persons do not have the opportunity to do so. There are certainly a wide range of questions here that will arise during the debate. But it is a good thing, in principle, to support those who stay home to care for their child and also those who are assigned to quarantine conditions, and yet the law is fixed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u26	Mr President, värderade talman! Regeringen har i snabb takt avgett en mycket viktig proposition. Man bedömer att circa 50000 föräldrar är eller kommer att vaa hemma från sitt jobb utan lön för att ta hand om och töda sina under 10-åriga barn som inte nu ska gå i dagvård eller skola. Det är viktigt att trygga dessa fabillions utkomst.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u27	Mr President! Although the possibility of pre-school education and close-up education in grades 1 to 3 was maintained, the government was very clear in its words to send home messages that children would be kept in homes if it were possible at all. And as a rule, this was also done. Finns are a obedient people in this regard. This is where the government shows such an excellent sense of situation and humanity with this proposal. This temporary benefit is a very concrete indication that there is a culture and good will in the direction of the government. Surely we all share the concern about how families are able to cope with the disappearance of such temporary support networks in society. And this is one way, one way to demonstrate in concrete terms that the government appreciates parents who, in this difficult situation, are struggling at home in the face of various pressures, perhaps financial distress, and I greatly appreciate the government's excess in the human and highly civilized direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u28	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the representatives for their very good and also human contributions on this issue. I can also see that, at the moment, representatives in Parliament are very concerned about this government proposal. At least Mr Kinnunen, Mr Juvonen and Mr Laiho drew attention to this situation of parents of children with disabilities of full age, and I think that we need to clarify the situation of these parents, who, due to the current situation, are forced to leave the paid work to be at home with children with disabilities of adult age or, as Mrs Juvonen pointed out, with children in need of special support in the meantime who are missing from this proposal. And I very much appreciate the expertise of the committee, and I believe that together we will also be able to consider these issues that arise during the course of the debate. It is true what Mr Laiho said in his own speech that these proposals are being prepared on a very busy schedule and that there is no time for consultation, so it is therefore extremely important that the committee should do so and then together we can reflect on the issues that remain open here. Many people also paid attention to the situation of entrepreneurs. And, as I said here, this aid would apply to persons whose loss of earnings would not be compensated by another benefit. However, if the income of the entrepreneur has fallen due to the epidemic, they are temporarily entitled to unemployment benefit, and this also covers the situations in which the entrepreneur stays at home to care for his child because of these restrictive measures, and this aid is equal to the amount of this temporary aid that is now being proposed. In the case of zero-hour contracts, it is also true that the employer's certificate of unpaid absence and the fact that this absence is the result of caring for the child must be presented when applying for the allowance. However, if work is not available for any other reason, it is of course possible to apply for unemployment benefit. A number of contributions also drew attention to seasonal workers, and these seasonal workers now arrive in the country during exceptional circumstances for the necessary tasks for security of supply in agriculture and forestry. And these foreign workers arrive in the country are subject to this same quarantine recommendation as the Finns, i.e. that they are in quarantine conditions for 14 days. And if, during that period, you cannot work and the employee is on unpaid leave, then you would then be entitled to the allowance if these other conditions were met. It is true that it is necessary to monitor the payment of this benefit not only to seasonal workers but also to everyone. However, there is quite a lot of this kind of trust in the citizens, and that is why it is also possible for Kela to do this kind of ex post checks on the fact that when the benefit is received at the same time no earned income has been earned, and this also applies to seasonal workers. President! There are many questions left to be answered, and there are still a few questions to be asked. I'll wait for that later discussion and then I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u29	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u30	We will now resume the debate on item 6 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u31	Mr President! This proposal is part of the package through which Finns are sought to secure their livelihood under all circumstances, and this should be considered as part of the development of the wider support network that is now being done here. It is now known that it is good for children to stay home when it is only possible, because it may be difficult to see to it that, especially for smaller children, they are able to keep a safe distance in day care or in primary school. Of course, when many parents have been forced to stay at home with their children for safety and public health reasons, it is only fair that any loss of earnings be compensated in some way. However, this proposal leaves some gaps in compensation for these loss of income. For example, we have parents of disabled children over the age of 10 who have now recognised that their children are at risk, and even if they have the opportunity to take the child to school, for safety and health reasons, they think that this is not the case. Of course, it is also a recommendation that risk groups should be carefully cared for, and that is why these parents now end up caring for their children at home. Some municipalities have also acted in such a way that the services of a personal assistant are now more difficult to obtain than in the past. This should not happen, but, of course, everyone should have the assistance they need in order to make the day-to-day work, but when it is known that, unfortunately, this has been done somewhere, this too may add to the load of parents. That is why it would be good to find out now what is the way in which parents of these disabled children will live. Above all, in these circumstances, attention must of course be paid to the fact that disabled people, whether children or adults, receive the services they need and the support they need. In many situations, if other services fail, parents or close relatives are the support and security, it would be appropriate to pay attention now to this issue when considering the development of social security. I think it is understandable, of course, that since these proposals are being brought in on a rather fast schedule and, of course, try to provide support as quickly as possible, it is not always possible for each proposal to give full consideration to the whole field. It would therefore be important to consider how to respond to this with another proposal and with another form of support. Unfortunately, for example, the support for informal care, which could involve many parents of disabled children, is small, varies from one municipality to another, the award criteria may vary, and, for example, the combination of part-time work and informal care support is still challenging, even if the parent has a real opportunity to work with some of its family carers. Now that the crisis is going on, we know that support for informal care and many other aids are facing challenges from the point of view of this crisis, and perhaps we should even consider a separate benefit for the parents of these disabled children in order to secure their livelihoods as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u32	Mr President! We must thank the government for this, and this is a very good thing that we should get these aids for families, especially those with special support children who, however, do not belong to this group of children under the age of 10 — indeed, it has been mentioned before by several representatives that there are still such small incisions for people with disabilities and so on. I just wanted to say thank you to the government for this, that you have done a good job. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u33	Mr President! This proposal was a pleasant surprise, and thank you to Minister Pekonen and to the government for coming against these parents who have not been hired to care for their children and also to provide remote education for these young schoolchildren. Often it is the parents who have not been able to move their work home, i.e. unable to do telework, who are quite low - paying. For example, there may be bankers, cleaners, professions of the type that cannot be done remotely, and it is for them that this support is particularly important. Of course, this minimum daily allowance is not very high, which means that it is rather modest, but I am sure that under these circumstances this government policy is quite correct. In addition, I would also like to point out that these families, especially those who already have low incomes and have a lot of children at home who also consume a lot, eat a lot at home, can have a rather tight income. I would now like, through Minister Pekonen, to express the hope to the government that, fortunately, when many schools have moved on to distributing those food packages at home, or parents will be allowed to apply for them — that is, it is also, as it were, to fill and supplement the income gap — a systematic recommendation would be made for this to be done in all the municipalities. Then I would also like to point out that it would not be such a stamp of help for the poor, but that it would be given to everyone, just as school food is available to everyone, not to label the parents who are seeking food as being poor or poor, because it raises the threshold for seeking this help. And, of course, this should also be considered there in early childhood education. These children, even in early childhood education, are left without this food, and it brings love to the family’s livelihood. Well, this allowance is mainly used to compensate for the lack of wages in a small part, but then, indeed, when there is a lack of school food or day-care food, I think it would be important to provide food.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u34	Mr President! A week's gone by, and I'm not going so far into how important this show is. A lot has been said here, and we all know how many people have not been able to stay in the distance. Many have been left in a very difficult situation as a result of this situation and the decisions of the government, including the Parliament. That is what I would like to say in general terms: the welfare state has again demonstrated its superiority here. In countries where people have confidence in the market and have thought that people are doing their own thing, people are really in trouble when they cannot afford to be sick and can't afford to even get care, and yes, Finland has done very well here. But at the same time, it has also become clear that these are our structures, which, for decades on the one hand, have been very fine but, on the other hand, they have been built in a little patchwork, sometimes a little stiff. We have had to hear quite many times in this Chamber, especially in those committees, how many things it would be good to do, but if we start building it now in the middle of the crisis, then perhaps we will be ready next Christmas, and people, businesses, just cannot afford to wait long enough to get that support. This is the same: the Social Insurance Institution, the unemployment funds, the tax authority — everyone is now in a situation where the resources are not only sufficient and people should be trained quickly to work. We have a lot of things that this machine slows down a bit, and that's why I have to thank Minister Bakko for getting this kind of new form of support so quickly, so quickly. There must have been a lot of things left behind that could have been done better. The level of this grant may not be as good as it would be, and many other details could be improved, but in relation to this timetable it must be truly grateful, and it is truly wonderful that this proposal has been brought here and has been quickly achieved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u35	Then Minister Pekonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u36	Mr President! I would like to thank all the representatives for their good speeches and comments, and at the same time I would also like to thank all the Finns who have left work to be at home with small schoolchildren or have followed the government's recommendations on quarantine conditions after returning from a foreign trip with this situation in place. Some of them too have had to be unpaid under quarantined conditions to protect others from the possible spread of this virus. Mrs Räsänen said in her speech that this proposal came as a pleasant surprise, and I would also like to say that these people have not been active. I have not personally been contacted, for example, by parents who have remained at home without being hired to care for small children, and I therefore consider it important that the government and now Parliament also show their support for these people who have acted in accordance with the recommendations of the government. This proposal has indeed been prepared with a very rapid timetable, as Mrs Suomela has already said, and this law is intended to enter into force retroactively now. Many people now expect that where they can make a living when they have been on this unpaid leave, and that is why there has been a hurry, and certainly legislation, too, can be inadequate. But we are now quick to find out who or which groups are going to be caught up in what is known as a drop-off position and whether it would still be possible to make a small adjustment to this law, for example, together with the committee, or whether it would be necessary to bring additional proposals to that effect. I would also like to point out that this proposal also applies to them from 4 to 10 in basic education. categories where the child has a decision on special support or is subject to extended compulsory education, as Mr Laakso has said here, and also for children with disabilities over 10 years of age, children can stay at home to take care of with this support. I would also like to say to Mrs Räsänen about those school food aids, the food packages. In fact, Mr Andersson made a public statement on them yesterday, and I dare say that he did urge the municipalities to be active, that is, if this school food is not already being offered to children in the municipality, these measures should be taken as a matter of urgency. And I share Mr Räsänen's concern that these school meals should not be branded as food aid for families with limited resources, because school meals really belong to every school student and should therefore also be arranged for every school student.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u37	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u38	Mr President, värderade talman! In these challenging times, it is great that we can make concrete improvements and facilitations for people's lives and lives. Coronavirus pandemic has caused concern to many citizens and families about livelihood and survival. With these changes, the government seeks to facilitate the position of those in enforcement. The aim of the present proposal is to facilitate the status of the enforcement client. From the threshold of getting relief and flexibility in payments will be lowered. The Government’s proposal clarifies the flexibility and ease that the enforcement customer will be able to obtain as a result of the corona crisis. The temporary law can therefore better take into account the specific features of the derogation period. The aim is also to temporarily reduce the requirement for prompt enforcement proceedings. This means that the temporary inability to execute enforcement due to the corona virus and the emergency should not result in an immediate default marking. However, the enforcement officer would still retain the case-by-case discretion to modify or limit the additional periods and facilitations provided under this law if circumstances so require. In this respect, the basic provisions of the enforcement cycle would remain fully in force. This will also guarantee the rights of both parties in the event of exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u39	Mr President! My own assessment is positive, because this is precisely where the government will respond to this very difficult situation, because we, in the face of the uglier bankruptcy and bail-out case, will then be guaranteed this virus and once we get to normal life, but the position of these debtors in it will be very hard and difficult. It is good that we are now reacting to this current situation. Just a few comments on what has been in this proposal, which feel good. However, account has been taken of the material deterioration in the scope of this procedure. Of course, in this situation, we know that there are thousands and thousands of laid-off workers. Some are in enforcement and incomes are falling, and then you have to react to it when you are on earnings-related daily allowance, that immediately happens such moderation, which of course is possible even in accordance with current legislation, when this happens. But I think it is particularly good that it has also been recorded here that there is not immediately a default mark, because it is precisely in the event of a fall in earnings and a default mark that it becomes quite impossible to make its own life possible with any kind of credit. It brings various obstacles, as we know, with regard to the payment default marking: difficulties in obtaining a telephone, a rental dwelling — and so forth, and so forth. Important in the first paragraphs of the government’s proposal is this obligation to direct the enforcement officer, because people who are often in financial trouble are powerless and at the limit of their ability to cope. This is a very good thing now that it comes from its authority, the enforcement officer, as an obligation to advise on the possibilities of this legislation. I also think it is important to grant this free months. It is well and clearly written in this legislation, and I also think it is good, because it is now compulsory that it should also be given when the assessment is fulfilled that this corona epidemic has led to financial distress and that enforcement could be unduly burdensome. I do not know whether it was now possible to give it for a year, and yet here in the legislation it is that the end of November 30. day, if now very quickly reading it like this, but it is certainly not a big contradiction. But I would have asked the Minister now that the EUR 720, which has received a great deal of praise, has to be paid — or can be applied for by those who have been left out of paid employment to allow childcare and distance schooling — that at this stage it may not be possible to take into account what is being done with that money if the person has been in enforcement and then remains to care for his child. This suddenly corresponds to a reduction in the monthly earnings of around EUR 1600 and the unemployment allowance for it, EUR 720. But just as the question is whether it has been considered so that this would be subjective in relation to enforcement, that it would be weighed up as to what interpretations it might become. But I would like to thank the Government and the Minister for their good preparation and presentation to the extent that the Finnish representative understood that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u41	Mr President! The temporary inability of the Corona virus to meet its obligations should not lead to immediate enforcement or to payment default marking. As Mrs Myllykoski has said here, even if you do not have a telephone line, you do not get a rental dwelling, you do not get a mortgage. These things can then result in a person’s giving up more easily when he’s gone on a slide, and then the slide starts to repeat, and it can lead to even bad things. The amendments proposed now aim to give the debtor more time to find out and balance his own financial situation. Well, within the additional period, the debtor would also be able to obtain assistance through financial support or, for example, through debt counselling. This is a good thing. If it is thought that the amount of funds paid to creditors by the enforcement will now be reduced, that would be the case. This is a good thing that we are now giving a little line and an increase in payment time and giving free months to those in enforcement under certain conditions and extending the eviction period. It must be pointed out that it is a corona and then not just a landlord. These must always be vigilant when making quick decisions, but it is desirable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u42	Mr President! We're living in a very difficult time. Holidays, illness, unemployment are driving people into distress, causing debt spirals, difficulties in paying, and it is very important that we meet people in these difficult situations with all the means we can. People are distressed, and it may be that many people cannot cope with this pressure and end up in solutions that are very shocking. This government proposal proposes a temporary change in the enforcement cycle. According to the proposal, the provisions of the enforcement cycle laying down the conditions for the reduction, limitation or suspension of enforcement of the enforcement procedure would be amended so as to allow for better account to be taken of the exceptional circumstances arising from the COVID-19 epidemic and of the financial difficulties arising from them in the enforcement procedures than the rules in force. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to give the debtor more time to settle and balance his own financial situation. Within this additional period, the debtor would also be able to obtain assistance through financial support measures or, for example, through debt counselling. It is very important that when a person contacts, for example, debt counselling, he or she gets through and gets help there, there is sufficient resources. The changes presented also leave the debtor with more funds for his own use during a difficult economic period caused by the corona virus. The interim law also ensures that the special situations caused by the Corona virus are taken into account on an equal footing for all debtors. Mr President! The current law already allows for a limitation of the amount of enforcement or enforcement detention if the debtor’s ability to pay has been substantially reduced for a particular reason and, for example, payment time can be granted for a specific reason under the existing law. I would like to ask the Minister: what particular change does this law, which is now provisionally in force, provide and secure? It is a good thing that the default marking does not occur immediately. It's a big thing, and it's important to a person when you're mentally thinking about it. It is often shocking to hear or know that the default marking has come. Mr President! I would also like to highlight the situation for people who, even if they are ill, are going to be hospitalised there for a long time or institutionalised care, and in that way the billing pile and the burden of payment will increase further. In their case, there may also be a situation where no one is there at home to watch that pile of bills and to follow and pay those bills, and may come up against unexpected situations when you get home from the hospital when there are a lot of bills and notes and so on. Does this law now also answer these questions, that if a person, for example, became infected with coronavirus, for a very long time he will have to be in a hospital — even intensive care takes weeks, talking about tens, tens of days — in what way, for example, in the case of hospital bills, does a person face its daily life? Mr President! It's great that the government takes into account the indebtedness and position and remembers the situation of the people in the '90s recession. So far you have done a great deal, government, to act that these memories are in mind, and we want to prevent and prevent the tragic events and, among other things, the suicides that took place so much in that world. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u43	Mr President! Because of the corona virus situation, we have exceptional circumstances. The situation is challenging and difficult because, although we know that this battle will still be won, we must find the means to prevent the damage caused by the virus as far as possible. Health is the most important thing, the most important thing is to prevent the death of coronas, but immediately afterwards, of course, the financial sector also comes first, because it is tied to so many things. Even before this interest rate, we had more than half a million Finns in enforcement or they had a default mark — that is, more than half a million — and you can only imagine that during this interest rate, and especially when the interest rate has already been won, the situation can be much worse. We have even more of those who have these problems. These people and businesses are facing a very tough situation in these exceptional circumstances now. Many of those in enforcement have made a payment plan at the moment, and they are reducing these payments. It has also happened that some have now been laid off and incomes have decreased. It's almost impossible for them to handle those abbreviations now. In the case of defecation it has been calculated that a certain amount of money must remain for man to spend on those basic needs and basic expenses, and in many cases it really has to be calculated that the money really remains in that food and medicine and housing. The government's objective is to lower the threshold for the application of restrictions and reliefs in the enforcement cycle, and it is very good that the government is bringing up these laws now, because it is really important to address the problems of people, especially those who are in enforcement and those who have a payment default mark. This law is temporary in such exceptional circumstances, and when there is a temporary crisis in the matter, the law would now apply. But in view of this law and its introduction, this is, once and for all, in the interests of the debtor and of the enforcement creditor, in the end, that these reliefs are given and given. It is intended that they could be, for example, these free months or that the number of foreclosures would be reduced. In the case of a business person, it has also been thought of meeting a little. If you look at the role of the bailiff. Myllykoski also raised this issue, it is really important that the enforcement men are now directed in this respect, what the government is now suggesting, that the enforcement men still have this kind of a case-by-case consideration to change or limit additional periods or reliefs under this law. I would like to ask the Minister whether it will be followed that the enforcement men will then behave in practice, in accordance with this government's proposal, that this will certainly be for the benefit of those involved in this enforcement and that it will be widely used? Secondly, is the income of the enforcement men still partly dependent on what can be reported from the enforcement debtors? Is there a contradiction? The hope is, of course, that this will be available as soon as possible, because it is now a very big emergency. Later today, this bankruptcy law is still being discussed here, and it is not always necessarily the case that the possibility of helping these companies and also of individuals would be real. However, there is a great concern, even though the government is now making this good proposal, because the consequences of the recession in the 1990s were shocking. Mr Juvonen raised these suicides here, and the government has said that we are now trying to avoid this shocking aftermath, which was then the fate of many people. Especially considering that we still have these people who are suffering from this. There has been talk of the Truth Committee, or whatever it was that might be wondering what happened then, whether these people could be pardoned or do something, because this situation has been going on for decades. This government proposal is now, of course, timely, and I thank you for taking this seriously now. If we think again — and I will take one more example when we talk about enforcement men — this is not really working at the moment. One person just contacted me a few days ago: his wife has been laid off, she is on bail, and her salary is being bailed out. Now the wife has been laid off, they would no longer have the opportunity to shorten this much. He had called the bailiff and asked for a little opportunity to meet, and the answer had been that no, this payment plan remained unchanged. That is why, in the light of this example too, this is really necessary and expected. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u44	Mr President! The proposed amendments aim to give the debtor more time to clarify and balance his own financial situation. About a month ago I submitted a measure initiative to improve the status of the debtor temporarily during the period of the corona pandemic. It's great that the government has been catching up on this now. In my initiative, I proposed that the government take measures to amend the legislation temporarily, allowing more and more months of free time for enforcement debtors. Of course, the bailiff can exercise discretionary powers in favour of the debtor in certain circumstances already, such as granting the free months, restricting the bailout and postponing the eviction. However, this government proposal is precisely lowering the threshold for the exemptions and restrictions of the enforcement of the enforcement of the enforcement cycle and also binding on the activities of the enforcement men. Mrs Lehto raised an important question here, namely that it is important to follow this temporary law so that it does not start to be exploited. Mr Elomaa's question about whether these enforcement men are being followed up is also very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u45	Congressman Marttinen, then Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u46	Mr President! It is quite right that, in normal circumstances, claims can ultimately be recovered by way of enforcement. It safeguards the payment of debt and the right to claim the creditor. You have to take care of your debts. But now we live in a completely different world. The Korona virus has brought an unexpected brutal situation to every person and company. Many are now in a very tight place. The cash flow of several entrepreneurs has stopped. There will be no money, but the due date for the bills is still approaching threateningly. The concern about tomorrow and the future of the company is real for many now. The legislation on enforcement already contains provisions to postpone and mitigate recovery operations. These criteria take into account a number of social reasons. However, the enforcement bar is made for normal conditions. Because interest has now taken us far away from normal conditions. It has become a huge social crisis that is getting worse all the time, and it is a very different reason for postponing debt payments. Mr. Speaker! Korona is not the fault of any Finns. Unwittingly, we have come to a situation that no one has expected. It is important that the interest rate is now taken into account in this temporary change in the enforcement cycle that has been prepared by the Ministry of Justice. In the future, the enforcement procedure would take into account the effects of the interest rate on the temporary deterioration of the debtor’s ability to pay. The payment period could be extended from three to six months. A smaller proportion of wages and income could be liquidated. In the event of the conditions being fulfilled, recovery-free months would also be granted. Similarly, the implementation of evictions could be postponed for up to four months. This is right, because no one can be allowed to be deprived of housing in this exceptional situation on light grounds. Under normal circumstances, defaulting will result in a default mark on the credit information. This is a very serious matter, as nearly 400,000 Finns already have a default mark at the moment. Moreover, the default mark could not be issued due to temporary default due to the interest rate. I also consider this amendment to be highly justified. It is important that the changes are made in the light of the interest rate effects. There can be no general right to depart from payment morals. This has already been the subject of an important debate in this Chamber. Our society and our economic system depend on money and performance moving from one person to another and everything is ultimately based on taking care of our own performances. Mr. Speaker! It is in the interests of both debtors and creditors that the crisis can be overcome without a wave of enforcement, financial distress for debtors and unnecessary default marking. The Minister has prepared an excellent proposal for this Chamber. And although there is no change to this particular paragraph, I would still like to ask the Minister about the level of protection for enforcement. However, it has to do with this, there is regulation under the enforcement curve. And in view of the fact that there is a very high level of default marking and, in turn, the number of people who have been subject to enforcement, we should also think about what will happen after this crisis. How can we see to it that people who are heavily indebted maintain hope for the future and also have the incentives to accept work? I would like to ask the Minister that you have certainly wondered whether this level of protection could be raised. It has also been calculated with a very direct impact on employment, and it would be well suited to these future measures, which the government will have to consider in any case. For example, it could be raised to EUR 900 per month if we talk about this basic protection component. But this is what I am asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u47	Mr President! Thank you for the good questions and thank you for taking this motion so well. Indeed, the situation is very, very difficult in many families today, and that is why measures are needed that can at least help some families and the enforcement debtors. There's been a lot of good questions. Mrs Myllykoski also asked about this support, which will now be paid to those people who stay home to care for their children and who will not be paid for that time. It has not been discussed separately whether this could be outside the scope of the bailout. I assume that there is a general rule here that it is income as well as other incomes, but this proposal, which is now here in Parliament, is certainly also good for people who may be in the process of enforcement and who receive or will receive this support. There is also a question here: what is now going to change in practice? Well, with regard to payment periods, the possibility of granting an extension of a maximum of six months instead of three months should now be allowed, and, for a specific reason, it is proposed to amend the requirement of the withdrawal period to grant payment periods in such a way that a sufficient criterion is likely to have to be paid in this law. Then all these paragraphs take account of the fact that if a person has come into a situation because of the corona virus epidemic, it is in a way the reason for the enforcement officer also now to use these possibilities, which this change of law or these changes in the law give rise to. On the basis of the criteria for the free months, in addition to the existing criteria, i.e. taking into account the necessary housing costs or other cost of living of the debtor, it is proposed to add to the law the criterion for granting the free months as a basis for granting the COVID-19 epidemic or the resulting exceptional circumstances to the debtor, and also in the case of entrepreneurs, they should now be able to retain more than five-sixths of the entrepreneurial income as a result of this change. Congressman Elomaa and a few of you asked about this follow-up. There's been talk of that already inside the enforcement department. In other words, as soon as this law is adopted here, training is being planned for all the enforcement men, that they also know how this should be applied in practice, and of course it is the government's intention to ensure that this is taken seriously now and that the enforcement men also understand the different situation in which people have now come and are going because of this corona pandemic. And then I'm thinking about the recession myself. I was a young lawyer at the bank at the time, and every day new debt settlement applications and new bankruptcies came on the table. We must do everything in our power to prevent this happening in the same way and to avoid the emotional suffering that was inflicted on many families in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u48	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u49	We will now resume the debate on item 7 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u50	Mr President! The aim of this proposal is to amend the legislation on enforcement in such a way as to alleviate the requirement of urgency in this enforcement procedure. The Corona virus has caused a temporary inability to meet obligations and should not lead to immediate default marking. However, in this law, the enforcement officer retains the case-by-case discretion to amend or limit the additional periods and facilitations granted under this law, and in this respect the basic principles which, as it were, in the basic rules, would remain in force, which is a good thing. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the eviction procedure, which very strongly interferes with the fundamental rights of a person. In this respect, this proposed additional deadline will also bring constitutional proportionality to the eviction procedure and will contribute to facilitating these difficult situations caused by the virus epidemic. In that sense, it is good that this government proposal has given some serious consideration to this relationship with the Constitution and the order in which the assets are protected and, in particular, with regard to this eviction procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u51	Mr President! It would have been desirable now, of course, to have been able to tell the minister a little directly, but hopefully the message will go through. There is indeed talk of this enforcement, and so to speak, it makes it easier for the enforcement men to show mercy in the treatment of debts, but in any case I am somewhat disturbed by the fact that nothing is really being changed here, because the situation is still that the enforcement men are not being obliged to do anything, but rather, as it were, let us give them a better lunch. However, it must be said that people are enforcement men, and sometimes personal chemistry does not necessarily play so well that this would be of great benefit to a debtor. I would have seen a much better and less bureaucratic solution, for example, to suspend the enforcement of enforcement for all three months. Then the debtor would not have had to go through these things separately. Since there will most likely be much more work for the enforcement men over the next three months, it would have made it considerably easier for this rudimentary to do so at the point where it would not have been necessary to interfere with these so-called old customers. However, we have to take into account the few things an unknown person — a person who has spent his whole life in a situation where nothing else has been needed but to talk about it here — understands. That at the point when the debt goes into enforcement, the creditors are very rarely the ones who would find it difficult to recover the debt in their own economy. In my day — now, of course, I’ve already been famous for my enforcement — I was a customer of the enforcement when I was younger, and after a long start, I paid for my enforcement until then we bought the house, and I had to pay the bank loan guaranteed by the guy on that occasion, and it was about EUR 15,000 in modern money. It was a pretty heavy drink for a normal small businessman, but in reality even if I took it out and the guy didn't pay for it, in a way it had already suffered so that it was not up to me and my family, the four - child family. In other words, too often these enforcement discussions deal too much with these matters on the part of their creditors. Of course, creditors have the right and creditors have the right to receive their debts, that is not what I mean, but they are very rarely in such a tight situation as those who are debtor there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u52	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Economic Affairs, to which the Committee on Legal Affairs must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u53	Mr President, värderade talman! In many companies and housing companies, spring has traditionally been an active time in the form of various meetings. This spring has been very exceptional for all of us, and with these government proposals we are trying to facilitate the conditions for different actors to deal with matters during this crisis. The Government proposal now under discussion concerns temporary deviations from company and community laws. The underlying objective is to limit the spread of the corona virus and to facilitate the handling of business and association affairs in these exceptional times. The change facilitates the organisation of meetings of shareholders and members of limited companies, housing companies, cooperatives and associations under exceptional circumstances. At the same time, it will enable operators to take better account of health protection requirements, the needs of communities and the rights of shareholders and members. The proposed exemption regulation also applies to certain financial and insurance entities and foundations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u54	Mr President! In the previous paragraph, enforcement was postponed, and now the meetings are postponed. This is a good thing, especially since even the housing company thinks that many people have all the property attached to it and it is important for them to be able to represent themselves and the shares they own at the meetings there. Big decisions are made there, and it may be that when you get your agenda home and then there's all sorts of information and you may not understand them, it's better that you get to the meeting and then you understand the decisions that are actually made, that you don't come as a surprise and know how to prepare for these things. In other words, everyone who is entitled to take part in the decision-making process must be involved. I myself am also involved in some registered associations, and there are quite a lot of elderly people there, and it is much more difficult for them to have remote meetings, especially now to teach it quickly, and there should be the necessary tools to do so. That is why it is good that these meetings of associations are now postponed, that there will be no afterwords, that what has been decided there and what has not been decided — that is to say, everyone who is entitled. And it is not always a good thing that someone else is authorised to do things, that is to say, being there is the best thing. But it's a very good show, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u55	Mr President! That is exactly what the previous speaker said that this is very much to be welcomed and very necessary, and even then, in this faster feedback to which this proposal refers, everyone was in favour of the urgent procedure and considered it necessary. This will help a lot of associations. Of course, some delay meetings, but I believe that this will also contribute to the remote participation and, on the other hand, to the updating of the association's own rules and the recording of the distance and other links. Perhaps the most important thing is that we get the message from this house that we approve this law for all the association operators — when we know that Finland is the promised country of the associations and there is an association here, almost, and thousands of people belong to various organisations and associations — that it is possible to communicate the message from this house and ministry that there will also be contacts, that these meetings can be held, even at the time of this interest rate, between distance connections, and that there will also be efforts to help the various associations in it, and then to update the rules when the opportunity comes. Thank you. Good show.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u56	Mr President! This Government proposal aims to prevent and limit the harm caused by the corona virus in such a way that meetings of shareholders and members of public limited companies, housing companies, cooperatives and associations in 2020 can be organised in full or mainly at a distance for each entity, taking into account the health protection requirements associated with the epidemic. Korona has revolutionized the whole world, and it is incredible how many laws, how many things we have to deal with because of the corona virus, and so good, because the most important thing is to protect people, protect one another, protect the elderly, who are also very much involved in the general meetings. I am now raising the issue of housing companies, which are also covered by this law. Some housing companies need a temporary extension of the deadline for the actual meeting until September 2020, and it is a good thing that this is possible. I would like to ask: It is very important for the general meeting to be attended, and when elderly people live in housing shares, and many there are wondering what is coming at the general meeting — big and big acquisitions, big decisions, renovations and other — it is very important that older people who live there are living in their own dwellings, the result of their whole life's work is their own apartment, know what happens in the house, that no one else in the house becomes lord than the owner of the housing share itself. So I would hope that in all these decisions — when we add remote meetings and have Teams and Skype connections — older people will stay on track and be involved, because very many people do not have computer connections and are not able to participate. In what way, in this corona virus wave, how on earth do we keep the elderly in the picture, that information goes to homes in other ways if there is no computer connection and no opportunity to attend these meetings? But it is a good thing that there is flexibility, and it is very important that residents are heard that there will be no unexpected, large investments, which the owner of the dwelling does not actually know about or will come as a surprise. Mr President! Here, Minister, if you have found a question in my speech, then perhaps you will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u57	Mr. Speaker! These proposals, which are presented in this government proposal, are very welcome and are well suited to the situation in which we are living because of the corona crisis. As several colleagues have pointed out, these situations relate, for example, to the general meetings of housing companies, but also to the general meetings of public limited liability companies, where the population, especially for larger companies, is very high, and it is therefore justified that this situation should provide the flexibility in the way in which this virus can be effectively prevented from spreading. Similarly, with regard to the meetings of associations, it is important to bring this flexibility here and, in fact, we will have a change in the municipal law which Mr Paatero is presenting and which, as it were, is also seeking this flexibility from the point of view of the municipal court. These are well-founded proposals that contribute to ensuring that the spread of the virus can be prevented. In particular, in view of the fact that many elderly people live in these housing companies, it is entirely justified and necessary for them to have the same opportunity and right to participate in the decision-making process even during this exceptional situation. I think that this proposal does take account of these necessary requirements, which must now be done in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u58	Mr President! After all, the bill is good and very timely. In fact, there in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, this issue will be dealt with in even more detail. Now that I myself have met this proposal, I have thought that there are now more ways to allow these organisations and associations and companies to meet. So here is the use of this agent or the use of an authorised representative and then there is this remote participation. I myself wonder that when there are people in many of these associations, especially if there are elderly people, who really have not learned to use these devices — either there is no such device or there is no one who knows how to use the device or to access the Teams or Skype — it was now, after all, the intention that the agent and the delegate should be physically present at the meeting place. So this person authorizes these people to go on behalf of themselves to represent him at that meeting, but then if this person is alone there at home and goes with his finger to his mouth, then there is no place to go alone in the home. I think there may also be a need for this kind of assistant, and this assistant is not an agent — right? So you have to do it alone at home, or is it the case that at home you can use a so-called agent and be at your side listening to that meeting? There might be some confusion. At least we must now very much instruct these various players, if this is to be the case, that the agent will only be used physically at the meeting place and then, at home, we will have to be able to do without an assistant, as the current law might say, then there must be one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u59	Mr President, ärade talman! Jag vill börja med att tacka minister Henriksson för att snabbt ha ämtat flera oika lagar som ska öjliggöra att verksamheter ska kunna fortsutta så normalt som vöjligt, eller att de inte tvingas upphöra på grund av coronaproblem.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u60	Mr President! This corona period will certainly also put pressure on many associations and limited companies to react to the new situation and perhaps to take measures that have not been taken in the past, and that is why the union democracy, in general, will be highlighted in the functioning of democracy under these circumstances. It is therefore good that this proposal has taken full account of the various situations and possibilities through which associations and limited companies and other entities governed by this law can continue to take decisions, despite exceptional circumstances, while ensuring the safety of everyone. After all, this gives a lot of power to governments in associations, and it means that they have a big responsibility to make responsible decisions that guarantee everyone's right to participate in decision-making as before. This means that when you think about those channels, those facilities, those other practical solutions, these governments really do have a lot of work to do. It would therefore be important that, now that a good bill is in place, it should also be communicated as clearly as possible and be prepared to answer the questions of the representatives of the associations. I would have asked the Minister how it has been thought to respond to this very important need for advice, because there are many associations where it can be considered really important that we go as closely as possible according to the law and the spirit of the law, but the possibility of catching up with what the practical solution is, which they should take, is not always so easy to understand on the basis of these legal texts. That is why the practical counseling is emphasized. As has been said before, these digital solutions are really now part of this whole. Spring meetings and other important meetings must continue to see the possibility of physical participation, but it is of course important that there are not too many people attending those physical meetings, and that is why it is important to keep this digital side in addition. The question arose as to how to get help if it did not become more natural to use digital services. Of course, if someone comes to help physically, there is also a risk of infection of their own, and I would wonder how to advise associations to respond to the needs of the membership in terms of advice, for example by telephone or other channels that members of the association can use, so that no one really gets involved in the lack of digital skills. It can be a pretty difficult thing to admit that you can't do the digitalization, as you thought. It may not even be up to age to what these digital capabilities are, and that is why this ensuring equality is absolutely essential here. I think the people here are flexible, the associations are flexible and find the best practices. As long as it is carefully instructed and told as closely as possible in the country how the idea of doing this is to work, I am sure that this year, too, democraticly and fairly, decision-making in the Finnish country will go well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u61	Mr President! This proposal is very necessary, and a lot of this has been asked and requested from that field. This comes to us in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights with regard to the Act on Associations, and there are a lot of important issues here. Actually, first of all, I'd like to say... There was already that change in enforcement legislation in the previous proposal, and then the next paragraph will be a change in bankruptcy law, and many Members were anxious to move on. So at least in the Legal Committee and probably in all the committees we will do our best, but this is very challenging. These are really complex legislations, there are many advantages against them: for example, there is property in bankruptcy and bankruptcy; then there is the rights of the debtor; the rights of creditors; and, as in this case, the exercise of the right to speak; data security. And it is just how different the associations are, for example: there is a small association, even a cat club, where there are a hundred local people, and then there are parties — parties are also involved, they are associations. It must be borne in mind how they operate and what obligations can be imposed on associations, for example, to take care of remote devices or instructions, it must be taken into account in this respect. This is precisely where associations, for example, are given the possibility for the governments of associations to postpone meetings without prejudice to the rules. In addition, the governments of associations are given the opportunity, even if the rules do not allow, use an agent or remote equipment — these become different options. This will be challenging — the whole interest rate will be challenging. If we consider that we are currently hearing from the committees at a distance, we are also facing the same challenges. Many of us have probably held different positions of trust, different meetings, and we are always thinking about that information security. Personally, I could say that we can never, in absolute terms, prevent the background from having some kind of influence on remote devices. If I, too, am now a Member of Parliament somewhere else, it is based on trusting that I am there alone, that I am trusted. But there is another side to it if you do not see the person: you cannot know that I will not be forced in that situation. These are such huge challenges when we reflect on our health and safety. Well, then I'll like that one separately... Is the minister still here later? I would've had that takeout. - I'm sure you're not. — This was a good thing when the President pointed out that as many people as possible would be able to speak when we go a little faster — or the Council of Presidents could give longer time to this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u62	Mr President! Thank you again for that positive feedback. That is because Finland is the promised country of the associations. We also have a very large number of companies, and that is why there are a very large number of general meetings that must be held. A large number of Finns live in the housing company's apartment, and that is why this legislation, which is now being brought here, is extremely important, but as the chairman of the Legal Committee, Leena Meri, said, is not so simple. And that is why I also hope that the committees, which are also dealing with this proposal, will devote sufficient time to it and will go through this proposal carefully. The idea here is, of course, to avoid people getting infected when attending general meetings. We do not want the corona virus to spread, and that is why we want to promote the use of remote possibilities. But I can well understand the concern that has also been expressed in this Chamber as to what will happen to the elderly. There have also been attempts to think about it at the Justice Department. With regard to housing companies, it can be said that the governments of housing companies have a great responsibility to organise these general meetings so that shareholders can participate either remotely or on the spot. Of course, it is possible to use such assistants, digital assistants, or agents, and this is of course quite important also to communicate now. Our association field is very wide and we have a huge number of associations — thank you for that. It is extremely important that we have the third sector active in this good country and that many Finns are members of the association. But, of course, the important thing here too is that associations are able to act and are now also able to apply the opportunities that this bill gives them. In this regard, it is now envisaged to do so in cooperation with the association field and interest groups, and they have already been contacted by the Ministry of Justice. On the Ministry of Justice website there are questions and answers about this kind of question battery. It will also provide answers to these questions, but these active interest groups in this civil movement are also at the heart of this now, and I hope that through them too this advisory side will be activated and that people will now have all the information they need. But, as I said, I hope that the committees will carefully review this issue and then communicate to citizens, businesses, associations, cooperatives and everyone concerned by this legislation how these meetings can be organised. The big digital leap is also ahead in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u63	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u64	Mr President, värderade talman! The Government has submitted a proposal for a temporary amendment of the bankruptcy law to the Parliament. Coronavirus pandemic has led to financial difficulties for many companies that are able and successful under normal conditions. Although times are difficult now, we will overcome this crisis too, but that is why we must look not only at the present but also at the horizon, and that is why the government is trying to help viable companies beyond these difficult times. The purpose of this government proposal is to ensure that companies which have only temporary payment difficulties due to the corona virus pandemic are not subject to bankruptcy. In normal circumstances, the creditor can file for bankruptcy if the debtor has not paid his debt within one week after receiving the request for payment. In the current situation, in which the income of many companies has temporarily collapsed, it is important that we, as a society, be flexible and help these companies to get back on their feet. It is therefore proposed to temporarily amend the bankruptcy law so that this presumption of insolvency of the week is abolished. In practice, this means that the debtor is not assumed to be insolvent only on the ground that he has not paid the creditor’s clear and due claim within one week of the creditor’s request for payment. In practice, this is a significant restriction on the creditor’s ability to file for bankruptcy. The debtor himself is still in the same way as before the possibility to file for bankruptcy. An important exception to the application of the law would be that it would not apply to companies that had failed to fulfil their obligations before the Coronavirus pandemic. In other words, this reform is intended specifically to help companies that have been temporarily affected by the corona virus pandemic. This amendment will be made for a limited period and is proposed to be valid until 31 October 2020. This gives companies time to get back on their feet when life returns to normal, and it is hoped that this will be the case. Let it also be said that no one knows how this virus will behave.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u65	Mr President! Despite the change in law, it is still possible for the debtor to go bankrupt, but it is indeed hoped that a well-functioning company that has suffered payment difficulties as a result of the corona virus will not be brought into bankruptcy. Every bankruptcy is a bad thing, and it always means more unemployed people, and it adds to the weakening of purchasing power. It is thought that we are not a consumer society like the USA, but here it is. Every unemployed person has an impact on the fact that less is bought and consumed and, in turn, it brings more unemployment. We now have many jobs chained up, that is, when one weak link gets into payment difficulties, it often affects others in that run. After all, that bankruptcy does not necessarily help the others when it takes a long time for them to get their claims. We now have to wait for every company in that run to go bankrupt now, not because of this interest, but because we can wait. I'm sure every company has a challenge in those chains. So it's all right now to try and keep up the business. It is always the most important thing that every company should be kept up if it is only viable anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u66	Mr President! This temporary change in government law prevents companies from going bankrupt on the grounds of non-compliance with a call for payment threatened with bankruptcy. Bankruptcy would be prevented when the company’s difficulties in coping with its obligations are recent and are therefore likely to be due to the corona virus situation. This would prevent the bankruptcy of companies which, prior to the corona epidemic, have fulfilled their obligations. At the same time, the use of a default-threatening call for payment in recovery would be prevented in these situations and the chances for companies to cope with a corona pandemic would be improved. Mr President! This amendment of the law is likely to reduce the emergence of excessive situations in which companies which have suffered from the corona virus but are viable in themselves would go bankrupt, and it is a very good thing that this too is being taken into account. Once again, it reminds me of the recession in the '90s. I was young at the time, and my own family was also an entrepreneurial family. We were not so badly treated by this recession, but I know that very many families treated us. Mr President! According to my information, around 730 bankruptcy applications have been filed for early in the year, i.e. bankruptcy applications already exist. I would like to ask you, Minister: do you still have any figures or information on how this corona virus epidemic has currently hit bankruptcy applications or situations, are there any of them in sight? We know that there are already nearly 400,000 people under threat and companies are doing no better. When the cash flow is cut off, the company is indeed in trouble, and when a well - run company finds out that it is no longer going to succeed, then the situation will be tough. You can see that entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs in particular need a lot of advice when, for example, questions come to me about what I do in this situation, where I get help, and then try to answer them to the best of their abilities. In other words, it is very important to communicate information and respond to telephone calls and to draw up question-patterns and answers so that people get that help. Well, when that cash flow breaks, it's bad. We can think about what companies they are at the moment: the restaurant industry and other similar operators, hairdressers, cosmetologists, taxi companies, small entrepreneurs, they are affected, and we do not know how long the situation will be like this. Even if the corona as a disease and infection subsides somewhat, people still remain in the back of the head with the idea of staying at home and avoiding possible contact. This corona virus epidemic affects people in such a way that we will more turn towards ourselves and stay at home and avoid those contacts for a very long time before that memory trail is removed, and it will certainly take a very long time. In that previous context, housing shareholders were talked about — and it is also related to this bill — how information can be exported to the people affected. Well, the shareholders have, among other things, the Host Association and the owners of Finnish Housing Shareholders. It's got a huge battery set where you can get information on questions. For example, in these bankruptcy cases, how do entrepreneurs really learn what to do?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u67	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. You said that we are going to get over this crisis too, and that is what I want to believe and believe. As a nation, this certainly will happen, but, of course, the cold fact is that we have a large number of entrepreneurs with a more challenging, more difficult situation. I am pessimistic in that we will see entrepreneurs who will not get over this, even though there is a hard business and the government has also tried to help in many ways. This temporary abolition of the presumption of insolvency of the week is one way, and it is of course worth applying for these means quickly, as has been done, and more is still worth applying for. One of the concerns that can come before entrepreneurs is this concern about chaining and paying bills. It has also been addressed during the previous parliamentary term that when the invoices are allowed to mature, they move forward in the chain: cash flow dwindles when the invoices have not been paid in time. I do not know whether something can be done about it or whether there are indications that the situation has deteriorated as a result. I urge the Minister and Ministers together, if at all possible, to speed up the decision-making process. For example, if you look at Business Finland, I know that there is a long line of applications that are being processed. I know that those decisions have been taken on Easter, but I also know from the other side that entrepreneurs are really tight. Many entrepreneurs have said, when these dozens of business calls have been made and discussed with entrepreneurs, that we are at the very edge of the knife, whether we stop the business or whether we still have the courage to take on the negative cash flow and the growing debt burden, or whether the company is being put down and stopped and the costs are stopped at the same time. The result will then be unemployment and lost businesses, lost tax revenue. These are uncomfortable phone calls from entrepreneurs. There are broken entrepreneurs on the phone. Yesterday, an entrepreneur in good physical condition said that for the first time in his life, there have been arrhythmias. It's really stopping me. In this safe job, you do not really understand what it means when your salary does not come regularly once a month, and your whole life, your life's work and your family's livelihood depend on your decision, for example, it may depend on the next decision of Business Finland. If it can be brought forward at all, we are certainly all grateful for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u68	Mr. Speaker! This proposed change to bankruptcy law is necessary in this situation. I don't care if you're here. In the past, the sea made an excellent speech to me, saying that there are many aspects of this aspect of legislation — the rights of debtors, their perspective, the perspective of creditors, and much more — but in view of the fact that it is a temporary, sudden crisis caused by the corona virus, it is very important that bankruptcy legislation is also considered in that respect. In fact, it is now proposed that this temporary amendment of the law should prevent a company from going bankrupt on the grounds of non-compliance with a call for payment that is threatened with bankruptcy, which means that such a temporary insolvency would not constitute grounds for bankruptcy. In other respects, however, the law remains in force and there are clear principles on the basis of which a company can be declared bankrupt. This is where Mr Kiuru gave a good speech on this business situation. I've been getting a lot of calls from worried entrepreneurs from the airport. Although a great deal of work has already been done in several different ways — there are loan-type measures, there are these direct grants, there are single entrepreneurs receiving support — many entrepreneurs still feel that these decision-making measures are of no use to them. They are in some way excluded from these activities, or, frankly, the application of the Ely Centre in particular is quite bureaucratic in a situation where the company’s turnover may have been cut off even if in principle completely. It is even strange that, in that situation, an entrepreneur should draw up such a business development plan when, in practice, the crisis is acute and it would require rapid action in this regard. But I believe that the government will continue to consider ways of complementing them in this respect. Mr. Speaker! This whole change in bankruptcy law is very important. I only hope in this way that we will be able to do enough in a timely manner, because, especially if this corona crisis is going to continue, and what it brings to our economy is going to continue to be prolonged, then, in fact, the real problems will only be faced in a few months' time, when it has been assumed that we have now overcome the worst crisis. But it may well be that the problems of many companies will not come to light until the summer or the autumn, if this crisis persists, when, as it were, everything that can be done to help the field is very welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u69	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here and I will not repeat them, but I would like to say that it is good — and thanks to the government — that this proposal will be brought. I am sure that this should be carefully examined and considered in committee. Indeed, entrepreneurs are coming to us with a throbbing cry of distress. After all, in public, Hesburger’s entrepreneur Heikki Salmela gave his own public emergency call and said that 54 years of work may now be losing in a few weeks. He said that now all you can do is sit at home humbly — a person who is always used to working and working on those difficulties to overcome. Now he just sits at home and waits for our government and Parliament to make wise decisions. This company has a shortfall of EUR 3 million each month, which is then out of the company's capital. Yes, we do have a lot of these very good, very healthy companies with which the bottom of the cashier is emptiness, and now a lot of different measures have to be taken to get past this difficult time. I drew attention to the fact that this proposal will be submitted for a period of approximately six months. It all of a sudden sounds rather long, but it is probably quite necessary in this situation, because it is also likely that it will take much longer to recover from this epidemic to normal conditions than it has been hoped so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u70	Mr President! Indeed, the objective of this bill is that the companies that have been viable, viable even before the corona, and that this corona has been the cause of these attempts to knock them down. Of course, this is what we all want. I myself have been an entrepreneur for 25 years and I know that an entrepreneur very rarely encounters an entrepreneur colleague having to use this kind of hard action that put this kind of eight-day or bankruptcy to go because it is not in either's interest. It is not an advantage that the partner or customer disappears from the world map, but that other, softer ways are always used first. This has been regarded as a rather drastic recovery operation, which is often the idea that it is not meant that the other party would go bankrupt but that it is this kind of rougher recovery operation, which is then to get them out. Now it's just a situation where if that trick were to be used now in this corona situation, the other party would actually go bankrupt when there's no money in the cash register when it's empty because of this interest rate. I'm sure no one wants these companies to disappear like this. I myself have also considered that the restructuring of the company has been a very good way, although it is also stiffening, and there is a goal if, in a sense, the company has gone into problems, but yet it is seen that it has vision for the future and the ability to recover under certain conditions and to return to a profitable company again. I would like to ask the Minister now: would it be possible, at the same time, to embark on a reform of the corporate restructuring procedure with a view to the interest rate as well, so that when this situation is over, then, in a way, the companies that can recover from this post-column state would then be brought under the corporate restructuring procedure, because these should probably be organised side by side? When Mrs Räsänen said about this timeline, it is precisely that, although it is now in force for about six months, it will really take a lot of time before those companies return to their feet. It does not happen in the moment when the restaurant is opened, but it just takes time before it recovers, so we have to give it room for recovery. In principle, I am even thinking in such a way that this is probably enough time. I think we will have to move on with that time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u71	Ärade talman, Mr President! Again, I would like to thank the government repeatedly and Minister Henriksson for the fact that the government has made rapid efforts to find such fire-fighting solutions to this corona situation. Of course, in order to maintain our economic activity as a whole, the fact that the interest rate can be eliminated as quickly as possible is also crucial, and in that sense, of course, the measures, the restrictive measures and the health measures that have been targeted at it are also the most important for our economy. But, of course, it is also important to be able to change the legislation. I believe that this amendment to the bankruptcy law is necessary and will certainly be helpful in helping with such a temporary financial situation, which will certainly be faced with a large number of companies. It is very good that the government temporarily restricts the creditor's right to file for bankruptcy. The abolition of the payment rule of the week is a tangible relief to the plight of entrepreneurs, especially given that most of the applications for bankruptcy are based on the failure of the payment rule of that week. As a result of the Korona virus, many companies are now in difficulty that have never been in difficulty before. This, therefore, actually prevents interest rate rates. Of course, the proposal will also have an impact on the position of small entrepreneurs. Small entrepreneurs may have to personally guarantee loans to the company in order to obtain funding. If a company is filed for bankruptcy, the entrepreneur himself and the family will, of course, be paid in person. It is clear that it is very difficult to emerge from such a tragedy, not just financially, but otherwise. If we can prevent such fates, that is, of course, very central. I hope that this epidemic will not last forever, nor will there be any difficulties in paying for it. I believe that this and other government proposals before us today give entrepreneurs faith and confidence that the government is looking for ways to remedy the economic problems caused by this interest rate. I have had a meeting today with women's organisations in particular, and women entrepreneurs in particular have been concerned about how these various subsidies and legislations will hit and whether there is a risk of some sort of falling-out when you are a sole entrepreneur. Of course, a large proportion of women self-employed are in those sectors, in services where there is a considerable loss of activity — perhaps not entirely but quite significantly. And earlier today, when we talked about such things as caring for a child at home and such subsidies, it did not apply to such entrepreneurs. In fact, a large proportion of female self-employed are single parents, and in that sense these problems cross very closely. I hope that the committee will also try to look at these issues in order to prevent this kind of fall-out from happening. I am less concerned that there are overlapping systems. It is easier to avoid receiving two subsidies than missing the whole thing. Another point raised today by female entrepreneurs is that, when assessing the profitability of the company, they were concerned that any recent family leave actually affects the way in which the company is assessed, and it may seem that it would not have been so profitable, even though it is actually the result of the family leave. In that sense, I hope that in committee, too, some sort of gender impact assessment can be made in this situation, so that support can actually be targeted and that no entrepreneur will miss out. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u72	Mr President! This bill is part of a larger entity in which the government seeks to facilitate the situation of entrepreneurs. This is linked in particular to HE 33, which was voted on earlier today, and which dealt with the tax administration's attitude towards tax collection. The connection is therefore fixed, as the Government's explanatory memorandum shows, that 42.1 per cent of bankruptcy claims have been submitted by the Tax Administration. In other words, the Tax Administration is, as it were, the largest single body to issue these bankruptcy applications, and it is therefore essential that the Tax Administration act flexibly in these matters and not now pass on these bankruptcy applications. It is well explained here that this is also the case for other public actors. For example, employment pension companies have announced that they intend to act responsibly here and will not bankrupt anyone because of these interest rate conditions. Sixty per cent of the creditors who have filed for bankruptcy in the past have been precisely these public operators, and that is why, in addition to this proposal, it is essential that this 60 per cent really decides not to bankrupt anyone by its own decision. Then 30% have been self-applications by entrepreneurs, and unfortunately these too will be seen during the interest rate. Of course, it would be good to be able to avoid this, but that is what these other subsidies are intended to do. Perhaps the core issue now is the 10% of bankruptcy applications, i.e. the situation where a private creditor is going to claim his claims through an application for bankruptcy. These situations can be quite difficult for the creditor. As has already been said in this debate, long chains can now be created in which someone fails to get a claim, so it drives a large number of companies into difficult circumstances, and it is of course important that, if there are only operators with liquidity, they try to make all their payments in time and as carefully as possible. Regrettably, there are very few of these players, and it is therefore essential that this whole package should also be looked at in such a way as to take account of the subsidies, the loan guarantees and the whole package that the government is now trying to bring to businesses in order to deal with this situation. It is likely that when these exceptional circumstances end at some point and when bankruptcy claims can normally be put forward again, there will be considerable congestion in the applications. It would be good to hear how the Ministry of Justice has been prepared to ensure that these applications can then be processed and otherwise ensure that the process is progressing smoothly. It is quite likely that we in the courts and in other administrative processes may have a growing need for resources, and it is important that, at that stage, we act quickly so that no part of this process is caught up in the fact that the public side has not ensured that the need for resources can be met. As has been said, the rapid resolution of these bankruptcy cases is relevant precisely to the fact that some of those creditors may actually have a real interest in applying for their claims. It may be necessary for them to continue their economic activities on time, and it is therefore important that the public sector and our resource challenges do not at any point hold back the progress of these processes, and it is therefore important to ensure that, at some point in the future, this will be brought to an end as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u73	Mr President! As I said in the previous speech, this is a whole which we in the Committee on Legal Affairs also have to consider. It is precisely this bankruptcy cycle and this bankruptcy law that are very closely linked to this. We're gonna go over this carefully. In fact, I now want to give the Minister the idea that, although this is for a short time now, it will now be for several years to come. I hope that we will now look at how the law on the debt regime can help in this future, because these problems are not just going to be solved in such a way that there will be no need in the future. There's a little bit of flexibility in the criteria. I am not referring here to criminal claims, but precisely to the kind of things that, for example, would break interest earlier and be nothing more than capital. There would be grounds for a temporary and stable life situation. This is the kind of thing I'd ask you to go through with that debt arrangement law. And then about these articles. We're going through this carefully, of course. This seems to be just a few articles here, as is the law on enforcement, but this is very important legislation. This is like a pair of hands again, with the rights of the debtor and the rights of the creditor, the protection of property and then the fact that there are always people who are also trying to abuse them. We must also consider, for example, what happens in the law on recovery in a bankruptcy estate, whether there will be a loss of justice. These types of issues should be carefully examined in committee. Similarly, of course, the entry into force provisions — at least once in a while I personally even get feedback that Parliament is paying too little attention to them. That's absolutely true. When the courts apply the laws, the entry into force provision is one thing where they apply for a leading star to what law should be applied. For example, from this law itself, I believe that it is stated here that this will be followed up. But then, when this legislation comes to an end, it does not say what happens to the applications that have been initiated before that date, i.e. whether we continue to comply with this exemption law or with the new law. This is the type of issue we will have to consider in committee. Indeed, to Mr Biaudet, I would say that we are not, of course, able to examine these, but that these various preferential arrangements will then be considered by the Court of Justice. We cannot examine them in this context, unfortunately this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u74	Now we're running out of time. — Minister Henriksson, and then the next item.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u75	Mr President! Thank you to all the representatives for a good debate and positive feedback. I share the concern that has been expressed in many speeches: we have a huge number of companies that are in a very, very difficult place right now, and many entrepreneurs are desperate. And that's why the government's invested so much. We have made exceptional decisions to increase funding for Business Finland, to provide special support for small entrepreneurs and also to find relief for liquidity problems. We are talking about a package of more than 10 billion in total. But it is quite clear that further measures are needed. That is why this proposal, which is here today, is also important, although it does not, of course, make things easier for all companies, but it will help those companies to survive, who also have the chance to survive after this crisis, because the government wants all those companies that have the opportunity to continue to do so to continue. That's why this show is so important. Public creditors already grant payment relief and are now making long-term payment plans with companies. That is extremely important. Of course, this includes the tax authority. About 10% of bankruptcy claims are claims by private creditors, and now we want to ensure that these creditors do not exploit the passivity of public creditors to channel payments to themselves by means of bankruptcy calls. So now we want to stop this with this motion. According to the information I have just received, the number of bankruptcies started is now about 20% higher than last year at this time. This is information from the bankruptcy agent's office. So we already see that the number of bankruptcies is increasing. There were questions about the corporate restructuring. A very good point from Mr Huttunen. The situation is, of course, that avoiding the threat of bankruptcy is the first step and we must continue to do so. That is why there is already a working group in the Ministry of Justice to consider this reform of the corporate restructuring law. After all, it is intended that small and medium-sized enterprises should be more easily placed under corporate restructuring and that they should also be able to find a way forward. In other words, we are going to have to, and we are going to have to work hard in many, many areas. Then they asked where to give advice. Each municipality should have a business advisor or a business company that should also include advice, Finnish Entrepreneurs advise and so on. This is where we all have to work together now so that we can help these small businesses. Women entrepreneurs also play an important role, and as a representative Biaudet brought up, so often they are single parents. All entrepreneurs are worth a fortune to this country and every job we can save, we have to save. [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u76	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u77	We will now resume the debate on item 9 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u78	Mr President! Indeed, on my own, I can still have a debate on this matter. — even Mr Räsänen has just left, but in fact Mr Räsänen tried to get these payment terms in previous years, as I recall, so that he was supposed to receive a net of 30 days, i.e. the due dates of the invoices should not be longer. The thing that would have gone through then would be much better now, even in this situation, when these chainings would not go the same way. In other words, even excessive payment times for large companies will then make it difficult for smaller companies to get their own cashiers in order, and then the next level of entrepreneur in the chain will suffer the same thing. What I would have liked to see with you in this case is that this would involve private companies in this bankruptcy case in a better way in the future, they would have been treated in the same way as public limited liability companies. Then the number of bankruptcies would certainly be reduced, there would not be as many closing companies as there are now, but many entrepreneurs wonder whether it is worth trying or not to put the gloves on. Now the situation is that quite a few entrepreneurs are going to have to catch up with their own property if they want to continue, and if it turns out to be the wrong solution, that is to say, in six months' time, they will be in financial trouble and bankruptcy will be and go bankrupt, at that point it will be the responsibility of these debts. If there had been such a similar change in bankruptcy law, i.e. the same treatment as the limited liability companies, the property that has been put in order to secure their debts would only apply to the case and would not be the case of the company going bankrupt and the bankruptcy estate then selling the assets of the entrepreneur and paying only part of it to the bank, which it has secured for example for the loan, and then the rest goes to the taxpayer's account. If it were a limited liability company, it would be that the taxpayer’s money would not be received at that point, that is, only what the assets are committed to and attached to would be the only thing it would touch when the bankruptcy took place. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u79	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u80	Mr President! This is a temporary amendment to the municipal law, and I say that we are therefore in the process of amending the municipal law, but these two paragraphs are now in this temporary amendment, one of which is to be provisionally decided on the transition to an electronic decision-making system and public access to the institution's meeting, and the other paragraph has been linked to these problems of meetings in the context of videoconferencing, and how is that possible? Both these changes relate to municipalities and joint municipal boards. In other words, we want to ensure that this decision can be taken. The problems to be addressed by these proposals are that we now have to have these necessary provisions in the administrative code in the municipalities in order to introduce an electronic decision-making system, and it must be a condition that equipment and connections are also available on the part of the municipality. At the moment, when the council meetings have been postponed, which has been quite justified — there has not been a meeting, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, there has been a desire to avoid holding meetings for risk groups and others — the reason that the administrative rule had been changed, and that would have been the only reason, there are still dozens of municipalities in which this has not been done, and therefore this temporary change. The second is that we in the municipalities have already had the possibility of an electronic meeting during the last change in the municipal law, which has therefore normally been introduced in the administrative code, but there has been a very strict regulation that there should be a constant voice and hearing connection. This has not been possible with many of the present meeting techniques and these systems that are generally used, so it is therefore the idea that it will then be changed. This will be subject to a temporary regulation so that we have the ability of the governments to decide on these electronic systems so that the councils do not have to meet. This is particularly problematic for the larger ones, with dozens and dozens of conference participants, and in many cases, for example, in joint municipal boards, councils do not meet very often. A new Article 90a, which would involve the decision of the municipal board or the board of directors, is therefore included in the detailed explanatory memorandum, and the decision of the municipal board would allow electronic participation not only in the council but also in the board meetings. Then there is the second paragraph, 99a, which would therefore have a clearer and a little more flexibility in the use of these systems, which are now widely used to hold meetings, also in municipal decision-making. This would include the possibility of an electronic call for meetings of the municipal council, which are public, being able to carry out meetings electronically, i.e. via the Internet. This also includes the possibility of so-called hybrid meetings, i.e. the possibility that some of the participants will be present at the meeting site and some through electronic systems. These are the main changes and the possibility for municipal governments to change the administrative rules would now be valid until this crisis period, i.e. 31 July, because this is only temporary, very temporary and exceptional. This is what we discussed and with the Chancellor of Justice we reached this rather tight timetable, but then how electronic meetings can be held and what systems would be in place until 31 May 2021. I hope and believe that, by then, we will also have the changes in the municipal law and these experiences which we now have from the intermission can be used in that respect. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u81	Mr President! The Municipal Act has made it possible to hold an electronic meeting since 1 May 2015. In Lahti, too, it was considered, but at that time we did not have the technical capacity to have equal access to sight and voice, and then we did not change it. But now, because of this corona virus, we had an emergency in the city of Lahti. A change to the rule of governance, that things are moving forward, became a bit of a matter of urgency. And then we had to organize a council meeting in big big places, where not everyone was there. It was a very short meeting, but it always requires the municipality to provide those resources and, of course, it will cost it when such a small meeting comes, so that this decision-making came a little bit like a month too late for us in the bay. But I have to say from experience that the City Board meetings, section meetings and board meetings have really worked remotely now. They have been well arranged, and it is nice to be on the bench at the cottage to hold a meeting, so you don’t always have to go to the meeting place, and you can be there with your family anyway, like in quarantine. But after much thought has been given as to how this council meeting could now actually be arranged remotely properly, it would be good to get some kind of guidance and guidance to the municipalities and mirror where it has been held. It may be that they too will work well in the future. Now, the municipalities will certainly wonder how these council meetings can be well organised in the future, which systems and which ones should be taken into account. And then from here there would be a little guidance for everyone that what is good and what is bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u82	Mr President! This proposal proposes a temporary amendment of the municipal law. The municipal government could provisionally decide on the application of certain provisions of the municipal administrative code concerning the holding of an electronic meeting, the electronic decision-making procedure and public access to the public at the institution’s public meeting. In addition, provision would be made for an electronic meeting with videoconferencing or similar contacts. The proposed provisions would apply both to municipalities and to joint municipal authorities. The article would be valid until 31 July 2020 with regard to the decision-making methods of the institutions and the clause on the electronic meeting would be in force until 31 May 2021, i.e. until May next year. Mr President! As a code of conduct, the Government stated that people over 70 years of age would be obliged to remain separate from contacts with other people as far as possible, excluding MPs, state leaders and municipal representatives. Although the above restrictions on public gatherings and the movement of persons over 70 do not apply to municipal institutions or municipal representatives, due to exceptional circumstances, the rule of municipal law 410/2015 that institutional meetings can be avoided for the actual meetings has been introduced more widely in municipalities. This is a good thing. This will prevent the spread of the corona virus epidemic. Many municipalities, such as Espoo, where I myself am a municipal councillor, are also taking this into account, and that is a very good thing, although questions have come to light that how can these meetings be resolved? This big digitalisation often also has discriminatory effects on older people. Many people may not be in control of various electronic meeting practices. And now that everything has come in one big tumult in connection with the corona, no one goes home to help or advise, because then there are these infectious risks as well. If that plane is there at home, then you just have to be brave enough to grab that plane and start experimenting with it. One of my friends, who has crossed this magical 70-year-old border, said when these restrictions on movement came into force that he is now in quarantine when he is 70 years old until he realized he can't, because he's a municipal trustee and then he gets to move. Well, that's what he was so happy about. Now he has sent me a message about everything he has learned during this time, but he has been in quarantine, so to speak. He has already attended Skype meetings, he has already attended Teams meetings, and the electronic world has opened up in a completely different way. It has been wonderful to follow him and encourage him to be able to cope with all these things. But not necessarily all. This digitalization and also these electronic meetings can also have a frightening effect when we go to the next municipal elections. Candidates, those aged people, may not dare to run, even though we need everyone of all ages to decide on municipal matters, because the experience of providing certainty and knowledge is needed in every area. Hopefully, people will not be afraid that the decision-maker must be such an online guru and a ruler of electronics, that without paper and pencil you will no longer be able to manage in this world. Let us hope that paper and pencil will continue to move forward, and the papers will also remain in the municipal decision-making process when the next time we sit there in the same room to decide matters. But, as I said earlier, who would have believed, how enormous a corona will revolutionise our world and how much different legislative work and changes it has brought to us. We all have to react, we're all in the same boat, and then we try to move things along as far as we can. I see that this is a good thing, too, but I ask now: how do we ensure that the pen and paper continue to be involved in the decision-making process?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u83	Mr President! The delegates and representatives should be showing the model, and today the Helsingin Sanomat editorial page gave an insight into how decision-makers should set an example of how to control the spread of the virus, but they should start by setting a bad example by meeting in a large number of places to decide how to do the right thing. So here's what I want to say: the decision is the right one, and it is the right one. Of course it should have come earlier — from this opposition there must always be a bit of a reprehensible idea — but it is now well advanced, as a rule, that very good. However, there are a few points I would like to draw attention to. Information security is an issue that needs to be handled well in the municipalities, and it is worth paying attention to in this preparation in the committees. There is confidential material, and it must also be kept secret, and the tools must be such that problems do not arise and, of course, users must understand what their responsibilities are. The second aspect is — and I was just talking about secrecy — then this openness and transparency in the future. For example, no matter how electronic the council meeting is, citizens must have the opportunity to follow the course of the meeting, and that has been taken into account here. That's good. Then there is the case that laws are now being passed in a hurry — and it is good that they are being done in a hurry — but of course the quality of the preparation should not be compromised. I drew attention to the fact that, when I tried to find these statements from Helsinki and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, they were not, in fact, actual statements for this preparation at all, but, as is stated here in the Government's proposal, they were comments and, of course, as a Member of Parliament, they would have been a pleasure to have been able to familiarise themselves with these comments and even afterwards. It may be that they are somewhere on the Ministry's website, but I did not find that it was all right if the preparatory material could be seen in that regard. Of the mobility restrictions just the last of this kind, which is not quite directly related to this but indirectly however: Yesterday I received mail from a 70-year-old citizen who was already tired of being quarantined and would have liked to see his grandchildren and so away. He put forward the idea that, at a time when these restrictions are to be phased out, there could be some sort of age limit procedure, even though 75 years and younger in the next step, they would be given a recommendation that they should then be allowed to move. Of course that health and things like this will work, but this is what I wanted to pass on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u84	Mr President! Today, in this plenary session, we have discussed a number of measures relating to this exceptional situation in Finland caused by the corona crisis. We had already discussed that amendment of the law which the Minister of Justice presented to us, for example on the decision-making of housing companies and limited companies. It is good and important that now Minister Paatero has also brought in a proposal to bring about changes to the municipal law that take into account this temporary crisis that is taking place in Finland. Of course, what I feel about my constituency, Satakunta, is that many municipalities and cities have already made decisions to change their own administrative rules in the past, and, among other things, in Rauma we did so already there some weeks ago. It is, of course, good and important that this flexibility should now also be introduced here in the legislation itself, and the powers of the municipality should then be temporarily increased, but given that quite a few of these changes have already been made by the municipalities, a more rapid timetable in this respect would have been desirable, of course, but, as I have already said, it is important and good that these changes should be made in any case. I also consider it quite justified, as the Minister has also said here, that this application of Article 99a will continue until the end of this current Council term. In other words, I see that, given that there are also a number of aspects here which must be taken into account in this respect, the Ministry's preparation of the law certainly takes these into account in that respect. Mr Kiuru raised an important issue which I myself had in mind in relation to data protection. Here, in the detailed explanatory statement, this importance of data protection, information security, in particular when dealing with confidential matters, has been emphasised. It is probably something that the minister must continue to take into account in the ministry, because we know that our municipalities and cities have quite different starting points for introducing these electronic decision-making methods. It may be that, especially in a small community with a small population base, there is no work in the same way as in a medium-sized town, even if such staff, officials, are able to pay attention again to how these methods are done. I would like the Minister to pay particular attention to this, because the starting point must be that, equally in all municipalities and cities, during this exceptional situation, we must be able to deal with these issues. This is probably one major question in this regard, which must be taken into account, but all in all, thank the Minister for his prompt preparation. This is also a bit of a point of order for the committee, given these different points of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u85	Mr President! Distance meetings in municipal decision-making have also become good feedback in my own hometown, and many have even said that it would be good to continue these procedures at a later stage, when they are no longer necessary after this corona period. I believe that we are doing quite a digital leap here, which is quite desirable. It is pointless in a way to travel from one place to another, if things can be handled just as well, and sometimes even more excitingly, at these remote meetings, so I hope that these good practices will remain in the municipalities. But, indeed, in my own hometown of Riihimäki, where Minister Pekonen is also authorised, we have had the problem that the Riihimäki City Council has not been able to meet now in the corona period and the meeting has been postponed, and I hope that: Even in Riihimäki, thanks to this law, we will now be able to meet at a remote meeting for the next time, because the city council also has very important issues to deal with, for example, issues relating to our network of services, which cannot be postponed very far. I drew attention to these periods of validity, in particular with regard to Article 99, which makes these procedures more flexible, and it has been stated here in the explanatory memorandum that this will then probably be brought into the municipal law with the same content, which is a very good thing. This law, which is now being enacted, would only be in force until the end of May next year, but I hope that, in this context, when the municipal law and more permanent regulations are being considered by the government, there will be even more open-minded consideration and, as it were, in view of the future, the flexibility that can still be put to the municipal decision-making process there so that these digital opportunities can be fully exploited.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the proposal proposes a temporary amendment of the municipal law. The municipal government could decide on the application of certain provisions of the administrative rule on electronic meetings, the electronic decision-making procedure and public access to public meetings of the institutions. As Chairman of the Espoo Council, I have received these articles of the current law carefully in recent days and weeks, and thank you also at this point to the Association of Local and Regional Authorities for providing very clear instructions and advice on how to interpret the current law. These parliamentary practices have also been well illustrated in municipalities by the kind of security intervals and how decision-making works, for example, if representativeness is not exactly the same as in normal times, precisely because, for example, older people or those who are otherwise susceptible to infection have not wanted or could not attend council meetings. However, a particularly important and timely change to this point, when we have made this change in the administrative rule regarding meetings of committees in Espoo, is this point where this communication of speech, hearing and image is made more flexible. I therefore also hope that, although Mr Marttinen has said here that the committee is working carefully and prudently on this matter and remains to do so, the matter will proceed quickly, so that, at these meetings which are now being held electronically in the Councils, there will not be any false grounds for appeal against it if all these conditions of the current law are not met. It is also important to take account of the fact that, even if these contacts are relaxed, the public will still have a good opportunity at an electronic meeting to follow the meeting, and I think that these examples, which I have seen from the electronic meetings, have made this very possible. It is also important that this alternative to the hybrid meeting exists. Indeed, we have a lot of senior councillors and board members in municipal councils, for whom this digital leap may be even greater than some of us, and then the fact that it is possible to get support for the use of the electronic meeting system and the possibility of having these kinds of test meetings and practice how it works, ensures that everyone has an equal opportunity to influence the decisions that are being taken there in the councils or committees or other bodies. Finally, I support Mr Räsänen's reflection on how future legislation will then take better account of this kind of preparation and also these opportunities for an electronic meeting. There has already been a lot of learning, and it also seems that, for example, the fact that you can also comment and ask in writing at the meeting even affects the fact that the meetings can be conducted more smoothly and the information can go better. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u87	Mr President! Tampere was one of the first municipalities to move completely to electronic meetings. We've already moved on to 16.3. It is therefore a pleasure to report that it has gone quite smoothly, and even those in our 70s are now on such a level that they even advise us younger than we are about to do what is always going on and how the microphone is being silenced when there is no speech. This has indeed led to the fact that some of the delegates may actually have improved the possibility of taking part in the work of the panel. If you have small children to attend to at home school, for example, it is much easier to do so by means of this remote connection than in the situation where you should always go to the city hall to meet. On the other hand, this will also have good effects, even surprisingly good effects on equality between decision-makers. But what I have already drawn attention to is that this constant connection between vision, speech and hearing is a real challenge when we talk about larger meetings. Quite a few of us have such an online connection that the lane would necessarily be sufficient to run a high-quality video band of several dozen people on a continuous basis. It is therefore essential that we now allow that to happen, which will certainly become inevitable in many cases, that at least every delegate's continuous video connection is not guaranteed. Of course, it's nice that anyone who talks always shows up. It is essential, at least in open meetings, also on the basis that municipal citizens are able to observe and monitor the meeting, but perhaps that all participants also see each other in a situation where only one speaker at a time, but everyone can still look at each other, is not very relevant for its decision-making. This needs to be clarified now, because I know that in many municipalities this has caused stress, how to get the conditions of dozens of people to the same level. There have already been some fun cases of this in the councils around Finland, for example in Helsinki, when the President also appeared in the background of remote communication. In fact, I think that many citizens in the municipality now want to follow these council meetings even more than before, and that, of course, there is reason to expect that some of them may now be even more interested in seeing what happens there in the decision-making process of their own municipality. It was really important to make it clear, as it were, how this completely electronic meeting would be done. It is now important to monitor how this is progressing in different parts of Finland. Of course, I do not expect smaller municipalities, for example, to manage this in the same way as large cities such as Tampere, where technical support staff were already available and where people with challenges and other things have been advised by telephone. Then, when we know how this has been going, we hope that more permanent legislative changes and other updates and guidelines will be made so that they will then take into account how this has gone so far. Since it is certainly the case that it is not possible to anticipate all that electronic meeting will bring, that is why it is really essential to follow the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u88	Mr President! It is truly a pleasure to hear that in most cases this digital leap has already been taken and gone well and people have quickly adopted this practice of how to go. A few comments on these. There is a real need to hold council meetings on schedule, and perhaps that is how all the Councils will be affected in June by the fact that the accounts will have to be adopted, and I hope that this will be the time frame for assistance. The questions and problems that remain to be considered include voting: There are some systems with which voting can be arranged, but they are not very familiar yet and have not been much tested. What is in no way possible is the vote on tickets, which means that if you need to go to elections, then in those cases there is no possibility of using electronic systems. This security and who is actually there to use the voice of the delegate: the President-in-Office and the Secretary must have a good opportunity to verify who is speaking there, and it is precisely in this connection that this picture must be included, particularly with regard to the speaker. For these people, for whom the use of machines and the use of electronic systems is not possible, these hybrid meetings are the option for the time being, at least the best. In all the municipalities where many of the electronic agendas and other systems have been in use for a long time, this digital leap has already been taken up with regard to this guidance and advice, that is to say, such collective training in the use of these systems has, for example, taken place in many municipalities at the beginning of the last council term. These secret things: We have secret contacts in the state administration — and now we have to take this side of the municipal administration as well. So if you get into those situations that you really have hidden things, then you also have to have encrypted connections. This will hopefully not come very often or on many occasions, but such systems we have had in many cases here on the side of the state administration, and they will probably also come to this side of the municipal administration. From these statements, when this bill was quickly compiled: We have these written reports on these, and I think that, among other things, the representatives of the Administrative Committee - I hope and believe - can be provided with them. They have therefore not been collected through the normal consultation system, but have been directly linked x to the number of municipalities and hospital districts, joint municipal authorities, and have been obtained there. I believe that they will also be made available to the Administrative Committee in preparation for the report. To this question of municipal law: As I said earlier in the presentation, we have the changes in the municipal law on what things are coming there. I would also like to point out that these experiences, which now come from the time of this interest rate on electronic meetings, will also be able to be used when, in the autumn, we receive the reform of the municipal law for the consultation that these changes will also come there. — Here. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u89	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u90	Mr President! When there is no minister here to present, I would say that this proposal contains two proposals. The aim of the first draft law is to allow the measure, work or project covered by the aid to be extended due to exceptional circumstances, as well as the payment of aid at a faster pace by means of additional instalments or advances. The content of the latter draft law is to allow meetings to be organised electronically, even in situations where the rules or rules of the shareholders' statute or the rules of the chambers or associations of the Paliskunta do not allow this. This applies to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and to the procedures that have been provisionally applied in response to this corona virus epidemic. Mr President, I drew attention to the fact that it is this latter law which deals with a little of the same issue as before, namely that there would also be the possibility of remote meetings, such as meetings of shareholders, but in this respect this procedure would be temporary, i.e. it would only continue until the end of 2020. If the Minister had been here today, I would have asked whether it would be possible to think that this flexibility would also remain a long-term practice, because I could imagine that, when these electronic procedures were introduced more effectively, this could still be used after this epidemic period. This proposal, for its part — I may say quite a bit — seeks to ease the impact of the epidemic on agriculture, forestry, fish and reindeer farming and rural development, but I would like to say in this context that a great deal has come to pass on to me, at least in recent days, from farmers and, for example, from berry farmers who are now looking for more robust measures from the government. So this is a message to the government that there is still a great deal of concern, for example, about this lack of seasonal workers. Many companies are threatening to go bankrupt, and we are threatening to miss out on crops if there is no relief, so thanks to the government for this proposal, this will certainly help and facilitate these entrepreneurs in a small way in these practical situations, but we now need even stronger measures in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-17-ps-56.u91	Mr President! This draft law proposes to lay down laws on certain temporary procedures applicable to aid for agriculture, forestry, fisheries and reindeer husbandry and rural development in the event of a corona virus epidemic and on the temporary organisation of meetings of the shareholders' associations referred to in the Joint Forestry Act and the Joint Regional Law and certain meetings referred to in the reindeer husbandry Act. The aim of the first draft law is to allow the measure, work or project covered by the aid to be extended due to exceptional circumstances, as well as the payment of aid at a faster pace by means of additional instalments or advance payments. The content of the latter draft law would be to allow meetings to be organised electronically, even in situations where the rules or rules of the shareholders’ statute or the rules of the chambers or of the Association of Paliskunta would not allow this. Mr President! This bill can be used to maintain rural activities to some extent when payments can be made either quickly or in advance, and this is a positive thing. In addition, the activities of fish and reindeer shareholders will not be completely stopped by allowing electronic meetings now during the epidemic, even if the rules do not allow them to do so. This proposal also welcomes the fact that delivery meetings under the Real Estate Forming Act can be held electronically. This will not stop potential real estate transactions or important infrastructure projects and will therefore be able to maintain employment even a little better in rural areas, for example. It also proposes flexibility for this year in terms of the management of young forests and plantings of the Kemera Act, called the Forest Finance Act. This also guarantees good forest management, regardless of exceptional circumstances, is an important issue. True Finns think it is good to make it possible for this year. The bill also deals with the hunting law. This proposal proposes to amend the hunting law by extending the validity of the test certificate issued on or after the first day of January 2017 but not later than 31 July 2018 to the end of July 2021. This will ensure that the regulation of elk populations, for example, is not jeopardised by the fact that some hunters are unable to participate in hunting due to an old-timer shooting test. So small things, but important and important to hunters, among other things. Mr President! It is true that farmers, horticultural farmers and entrepreneurs in rural areas have been in trouble and also in fear of the effects of the corona virus epidemic on their livelihoods. It is important that, at the start of the harvest period, we get employees and students, for example, because at the moment very many students have lost their summer jobs. There have been reports that the summer work already agreed on has been cancelled due to this corona virus epidemic. It would be good if young people also had the opportunity to work in agriculture. The True Finns suggested that a person who has been laid off or become unemployed and yet receives social benefit would not lose that benefit if, for example, he worked in these seasonal jobs. That would have been a good thing, and perhaps we are still working on it to see how that would be possible. Unfortunately, however, it has not yet been adopted. It is important that we take into account the situation of farmers and people in the garden sector in this corona virus too, because it may be that we will run out of domestic food at the table if we do not get workers there and also hear them. It is good that support for agriculture, forestry, fisheries and reindeer husbandry and rural development is now being given a helping hand.
