ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u2	Mr President! Indeed, this proposal seeks to introduce temporary changes aimed at simplifying the provisions on unemployment benefit and also at reducing the processing of applications for benefits and the amount of work they have. And, Mr President, it has to be said that, at the moment, we are beginning to see the congestion that we face in dealing with unemployment benefits, and the opposition has been pushing the government on a number of occasions to ensure that resources are sufficient to ensure that these various applications and the receipt of social security benefits and unemployment benefits do not result in long breaks. In addition, it should be noted that many congregations currently provide food aid and [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u3	Mr President! Mr Essayah went through the arguments behind this motion. Only temporary changes are being made here to speed up the treatment of unemployment benefit, and these are more than welcome and justified in this situation. Thank you to the government of our country for these. For example, layoffs have increased by some 100,000 a month. Already over 160,000 Finnish workers are laid off, and the situation is very serious. Unemployment has also increased over the past month, and these need to be reacted more quickly. Perhaps one of the things that is noteworthy about this corona crisis is that when the layoffs in Finland were mainly directed at people over 50 years of age in the past, the typical laid-off is a young Finnish worker under the age of 30, and this is also worth noting. They're just in the early stages of their careers. Finland's exports also collapsed in April. Exports are one of the cornerstones of the financing of our welfare society and must also be brought back as quickly as possible. And we need to focus our efforts on education, including on those who are laid off and those who are unemployed. According to Finnish Entrepreneurs, 75 per cent, or three out of four Finnish companies, are already in trouble because of the interest rate, and the situation will worsen in the coming weeks. About half of them say that they specifically need direct support. One out of every five companies has payment problems, and every tenth Finnish company is thinking about it. And about one in ten Finnish companies are also at risk of bankruptcy. Only one third of Finnish companies have said that they have survived this crisis without direct financial support. Nearly one in five entrepreneurs are also applying for unemployment benefit, which means that they are hitting Finnish society and jobs hard at the moment. We consider it necessary for the government to comply with the binding statement of the Parliament and the Constitutional Committee on that support for restaurants and cafes, and we wonder how it can take so long to bring it here. When that support has not been seen or heard, many restaurants and cafes are currently in serious trouble. It is already a question of whether these companies can be saved at all. The key to overcoming this crisis is the condition in which Finnish companies get out of the COVID-19 crisis, or whether they get out of it at all. This is a very important issue for the future of our whole welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u4	Mr President! After all, man is notoriously detestable to bureaucracy and paperwork. Well, there has been a great deal of paperwork and bureaucracy here, and it is good that this is now being made easier. The government could have acted a little faster, that's true. Every person, whether an entrepreneur or an employee, has to pay the bills, and suddenly they are in trouble, the bills are in enforcement and otherwise, and it is very important that we get this thing right quickly. Of course you would have liked and some of these little things have also come up that if a company lay off a large number of people at once, then why, for example, labour policy statements could not at one time be given to all persons — such questions have arisen. I'm glad we've finally started getting that thing right. Speed is leverage. It's a waste of bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u5	Mr President! The number of layoffs and layoffs is now increasing exceptionally. It is important to consider how to avoid delays in payment of benefits. In its report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it important to continue to streamline and speed up the implementation of unemployment security by examining how better use can be made of the information in the Incomes Register. I fully agree with the committee on this: the income register and the account information should be automated. During the last term of the Board of Directors it was suggested that Kela had access to the accounts electronically. The easiest way for citizens seeking benefits would be for Kela to use the customer's account information with her consent when deciding on the benefit. When the corona crisis is over, the simplification of access to account information should be reviewed. Combined with the Incomes Register, access to the applicant's accounts could even enable the automation of support decisions sooner or later.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u6	Mr President! It is a great thing that the committees have been able to deal with these difficult issues in such good agreement. Unfortunately, when we talk about laid-off and unemployed people, this problem will not soon be resolved, and it is therefore expected that the government will continue to act. Especially that restaurant business. There is a real risk that we will be seeing bankruptcies in the near future, and then it will be difficult to return to employment in this sector and, in particular, the situation of these entrepreneurs will be difficult. This motion has been discussed unanimously, and for this I would also like to thank the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u7	Mr President! Here we have had a lot of good proposals from the government in the past, which have supported businesses and entrepreneurs, including entrepreneurs, and all of which have deliberately wanted to meet in this vulnerable situation, which has been caused by this corona pandemic. Here is a good example of what the government has also done, which is against workers who have been laid off or otherwise unemployed in a difficult situation, and here we have now clearly sought to strengthen the operational functioning of unemployment funds and to facilitate the so-called red tape. Here the opposition pointed to the fact that there are still large queues in the unemployment funds. Yes, but we also have examples of situations where the cashier has acted exceptionally smoothly — the application has been put in and this aid has been received within a few days — that is to say, this situation varies slightly from region to region. One thing is perhaps somewhat striking here, and that is that, when the original government proposal contained this consideration, which is always a very central element in these decisions on unemployment security, it was still wanted in such a way that this consideration would have been removed, so that it would have been more effective to act in this critical situation and to genuinely help the people, then now, apparently, in this process this consideration in some way still remained alive, and in that regard it might have been possible to make this decision even slightly more effective, taking into account the excellent original proposal which the government had in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u8	Mr President! This tight time limit is a bit of a waste of time, so I will return to this difficult situation for companies with just a few words. It is not, of course, like the government parties being led to believe that companies have been well supported in this crisis. When you listen to companies in the field, they are more than disappointed at the way they have been treated in this situation. In particular, companies would have needed support for fixed current costs, such as rental costs, electricity, various types of expenditure of this kind, and these subsidies have not been allocated to them, but have been used by, for example, Business Finland and done so on the basis of the previous criteria of Business Finland. [Antti Lindtman’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u9	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Kiljunen here praised the government for its corporate subsidies, and that is something I do not agree with, as can be heard by the restauranters. Of course, I have to wonder once again about Mr Heino. We are talking quite clearly about something other than companies at all,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u16	Mr President! Inspired by Mr Kiljunen's speech, if I were to say so, I decided to take this floor, where I shall shed some light on the committee's deliberations on this matter. When we had this in the referral debate and had the original government proposal, it involved sections 3 and 4. Article 3 would have temporarily waived discretion in the distribution of unemployment benefit and Article 4 would have abandoned the inclusion of unemployment benefit. Financially, it was estimated that the original proposal would have cost Kela so much more, or the unemployed would have gotten so much more. Kela intervened with a very strong position on this point, which was also addressed by the rapporteur, Mr Pekonen, who said that Kela's position should be taken seriously. And then, when it was discussed in committee, in fact, Kela's position made a little difference. The problem was that Kela would like a certain change in the waiting time to make these things work better. And when, because of the urgency of the matter itself, it was considered that it was not possible to enter into it, in fact — let me be frank — Kela was given in to the removal of Articles 3 and 4, that is to say, this discretion and this temporary division. We had a committee in agreement on this. So now I don't want anything like a political game about this. We discussed this, we made this decision consciously, but in these respects the original proposal would have been a little better. Well, here are the weeks to come that will show what kind of repairs may have to be made, but I wanted to say this here. This was a rather complicated correspondence about the content of this law overall, but that is what happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u17	Mr President! In the previous speech, I referred to the fact that the government, in addition to business subsidies, has also come against workers and workers who are becoming unemployed in this situation, which is what we are actually talking about in this proposal. However, Mr Heinonen referred in his own speech to 24.3. a different opinion on business subsidies provided through Business Finland, and of course pointed out that Business Finland's criteria are for this development activity and not for these fixed costs, such as rent. Mr President! I am not going to use this time any more than briefly quoting this dissenting opinion of the Assembly — this is, therefore, the speech of 24 March — which states: ‘The Government proposes an increase of EUR150 million in the capacity of BusinessFinland for research, development and innovation. The Assembly estimates that the reserve is insufficient and therefore proposes an increase of EUR 300 million. The Coalition Party supports the Government in its objective of supporting companies to cope with large-scale and serious damage to business caused by the corona virus. It is good that Business Finland has already made the first aid decisions for companies in need.” In your opinion, there is no mention of the Business Finland criteria to which you have repeatedly referred in the future. Be literally behind the presentations you make here, and do not later explain that the government is guilty of something else that you yourself have committed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u18	Mr President! It is, of course, honest to say what the Coalition Party has presented and Mr Kiljunen has now borrowed one piece,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u24	Now this debate, inspired by the Unemployment Protection Act, should gradually be over, but representatives Mrs Kiljunen, Mr Yrttiaho and Mr Koskinen have asked for the floor inspired by what has just been said.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u25	Mr President! I am certainly not prolonging this debate. Representative Heinonen is a skilled speaker, and he approaches the truth with his twists and curves, and the seed of truth may be found there too when he is rightly seeking it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u30	Mr President! I have a comment to make on this bill. This is where Mr Lindén went through this legislative process, and unfortunately this original government proposal was partly watered down there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Obviously indeed, as Lindén described, this pressure had come from the direction of Kela, and now we are not going to go any further into politics, but we know very well what the party is doing there, and I do not think that there is any party representatives in the Chamber at the moment — or one. But here too: as Mr Lindén said, the need for labour market support remains to be considered and the possibility of substantiating remains. In practice, then, we will find ourselves in a situation where the most vulnerable will still have to be involved in this means-tested exercise even during this exceptional period. For example, for beneficiaries of basic daily allowance, where the condition of employment is met, the needs test does not apply. The beneficiaries of labour market support are being applied and this is the law that has now been left in this report. For example, this means that even pre-emergency income is taken into account, which will then be amortised over the course of the year, plus the income of the parents, so that 50% of labour market support can be cut, that, in my view, if the cost impact was between 8 and 9 million, as mentioned by Mr Lindén, it is quite scandalous in such a situation that the most vulnerable people will not receive it more than 8 to 9 million. All in all, we should now strongly stimulate demand precisely through these existing benefits, including the various types of unemployment benefit, and unfortunately now, apparently, under the pressure of Kela, this bill went in a bad direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u31	Mr President! When there is some disengagement from the rest of the world, it must be emphasised that the common view which has been expressed about these unemployment security arrangements, their financing, the reduction of procedures, not only here in Parliament but also between the social partners. It is an important part of the rescue of this corona crisis that these immediate effects on employment have been less than feared, at least until now, and we must continue to ensure that lay-off periods are minimised, their length and direct dismissals reduced, direct unemployment effects reduced. In the case of business subsidies, too, this decision-making of Parliament was unanimous. These entries have been mentioned here, but much more impressive is the fact that the entire Committee on Finance unanimously, and also the Parliament to that band, called for the Government to urgently prepare changes to these criteria for business support, so that they will then focus more strongly on the economic impact, how the opportunities to continue with business activity and the promotion of employment will be ensured. This is now the will of the whole Parliament, and there will be changes and corrections to the regulations on corporate support shared by Business Finland and partly by Elys. And the other side is this support for restaurants: there are statements from both the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee. In the context of the second supplementary budget, the report of the Committee on Finance, which the Parliament agreed with, states: ‘The committee refers to the declarations adopted by the Parliament ‘that both the Economic and Constitutional Committee and the Constitutional Committee’requires a report on the compensation of damage. The committee is pressing for measures to ensure The proposals for this are likely to be coming to Parliament this week.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u32	Mr President! As the chairman of our committee, Mr Koskinen, I myself, as a member of the Committee on Finance, would have liked to underline the fact that I consider it very important that the government has been able to bring these measures forward quickly and that the whole Parliament has also unanimously called for them to be corrected when it has noticed certain shortcomings. Mr Koskinen pointed out, for example, this statement, in which the whole Parliament, in the context of the second amending budget, made urgent efforts to change this Business Finland criterion. And, yes, I, too, confirm that, when the first amending budget was discussed in our committee, I did look particularly closely at this supplementary budget initiative by Mr Heinonen, and there is no mention of the criterion here, but that it is said that this money, which is now being given to Business Finland, will have a further 150,000 contributions to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u35	Mr President! Of course, we must look at all the debates that have taken place in this House, and we have pointed out from the outset that companies need direct, rapid support. During Parliamentary Question Time, we have highlighted, for example, where the hairdresser refocuss his business
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u38	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u39	Mr President! In view of the exceptional circumstances of the Corona virus epidemic and the restrictions on the movement of citizens, temporary changes to the legislation in the transport sector are needed. The aim is to protect the elderly and people at risk, to facilitate the activities of citizens and businesses under exceptional circumstances and to ensure that transport operations are carried out. The initiative to introduce temporary derogations from legislation has come from citizens and industry companies, organisations and public authorities. The laws are intended to enter into force as soon as possible and are intended to be temporary. Mr President! The proposal mainly includes amendments to six laws on road, rail and maritime transport relating to time limits and documents to be submitted. The amendment to the driving licence law proposes that a medical certificate for the renewal of a driving licence and the licence of a traffic instructor aged over 70 may be submitted to the police by the end of October at the latest. This also applies to the submission of a driver's licence and a medical certificate for the renewal of a driver's licence. With regard to professional qualifications in road and rail transport, they would continue until the end of October 2020. If the railway doctor has not required more frequent medical examination than usual, the medical certificate of the railway driver shall be delayed. The professional qualifications of shipping, such as certificates of qualification, additional qualifications and pilot licences, shall be extended by six months from the date of renewal. The qualifications documents can be submitted to the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency and the competence test can be carried out by the end of April 2021 at the latest. Any amendment to the Ship Register Act will allow a copy of the ship's recovery certificate instead of the original document. The deadline for the derogation expires at the end of October. With regard to the screening of seagoing ships, the Agency may authorise a classification society approved by it to carry out and issue a certificate of the security inspection of a ship. These inspections are carried out on Finnish vessels abroad. The provisional authorisation shall be valid until the end of December 20 at the latest. The amendment also provides for the temporary notification of schedule and route changes in public transport within five days instead of the current 60 days. This will facilitate the planning of public transport and will make it possible to reduce traffic, but also to expand as the corona virus epidemic subsides. Mr President! The proposed legislative changes reduce the need for elderly and at-risk groups to move and deal with other people during the corona virus epidemic. The burden of health care resulting from health checks will be reduced. These changes would facilitate the uninterrupted continuation of business and reduce the administrative burden on businesses during exceptional circumstances in a number of sectors, such as freight transport by sea, the carriage of goods by road and driving instruction, not to mention taxi and bus transport. The legislative changes ensure the continuity of maritime, road and rail transport, which is essential for society, and the security of supply in Finland. As is known, most of Finland's internal freight transport is handled by road, but the most important mode of transport in foreign trade is maritime transport. The proposed legislative amendments are not expected to have a significant impact on road safety due, inter alia, to the short duration of the derogations proposed. The Finnish Transport and Communications Agency Traficom monitors the implementation and impact of the derogations, including in the field of road safety. Traficom will prepare a report six months after the end of the exceptional circumstances. Mr President! The European Commission has welcomed the extension of these deadlines and other EU Member States have implemented flexibility. In addition, last week the EU Commission has published the so-called relief package, which provides further flexibility. The E-letter on the subject is still in preparation at the Ministry but is coming to Parliament very soon. The starting point is, however, after the Attorney General’s Office, Finland’s leading legal expert, and THL, Finland’s leading health expert, considered that there was no reason to postpone surveys when the virus situation was under control, that we did not consider it appropriate at EU level either. Finnish roadworthiness stations have created services that allow those who experience a risk group to allow the vehicle to be tested without using the station itself. As a free idea, I also suggest that this service can be provided even without an additional fee. The sector has responded in a fine way to people's fears with better service.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u40	Mr President! Just as the Minister said, this proposal, could I say, is indeed a steak which seeks to protect people, particularly at risk, and to facilitate their daily lives, and which essentially includes changes to the provisions on road and rail transport and maritime transport relating to deadlines and documents to be submitted. In fact, the Minister raised this question of testing, and many localities have also responded to it by voluntary organisations and individual people who have wanted to help their fellow citizens in risk groups, and indeed the roadworthiness tests for cars have been carried out in that way. If this is the case, these distances can certainly be observed at the inspection stations. In view of the exceptional circumstances and restrictions on movement caused by the COVID-19 epidemic, these temporary changes in transport legislation are necessary to facilitate the activities of citizens and businesses and to ensure that transport is carried out. In that sense, these are worthy and important to move forward with legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u41	Mr President! I would like to thank Minister for Transport Timo Haraka for his good proposals and actions. This is precisely a measure aimed at avoiding contact with older drivers at risk by means of periodic temporary changes to these medical certificates. In this debate, the Minister also raised this question of roadworthiness, which was raised in Finland a moment ago and has now also been raised in the EU. As Mr Essayah has pointed out, we have found quite good solutions at national level to this situation, and now that the situation of infection seems to be like this, the Minister's solutions have been quite justified in this context too. Representative Essayah spoke of volunteers who have conducted surveys, but in fact this has also created a good new service for our companies. Quite a few service stations have increased their services so that the car can be picked up from home, have a regular check-in, have a check-up and return home, and if there is no need for this maintenance, we also have a number of inspection offices offering such a search service that the car can be picked up from the customer's home and returned to it with a check-up — excellent, good service for older people as well as for other high-risk groups and those in general who need these services flexibly. In my opinion, there are good proposals that can go ahead, and we must of course bear in mind that we also have some responsibility for maintaining and keeping up-to-date traffic registers, and in that sense, too, it is quite right that when things get worse, we should be able to move forward with such streamlined, sensible solutions that have been brought before us here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u42	Mr President! Minister! The interest rate affects transport and, at the same time, transport. Things don't move and people don't move unless there's drivers, that's just the way it is. It is reasonable that these drivers' professional qualifications, papers and so on should not be carried out in such a hurry at the time of the interest rate, and it seems to me that these courses have not been and have not been able to be carried out at the time of the interest rate, so it makes sense that there should be some sort of rationality in the timetable. It would also be nice to see at times that a large part of all the expenses, taxes and other things that are levied on traffic and motorists and such would be earmarked for the care of roads and roads. I wish I could see even more investment in it someday.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u43	Mr President! The purpose of the Government's proposal is to facilitate the operation of citizens and businesses and to ensure the functioning of transport in exceptional circumstances caused by the corona virus epidemic. The main guiding principle in this proposal, too, is the protection of people from risk groups. By reducing the need for people to move, we are effectively preventing the spread of the virus. A temporary amendment to the driving licence law is proposed so that the renewal of the driving licence can only be accompanied by a medical certificate at a later stage. The doctor’s meeting could thus be postponed to a safer time. On the same basis, an extension of six months is proposed for the validity of professional qualifications. The schedule and route changes in public transport have had to be announced 60 days in advance. The Corona virus epidemic has significantly reduced the use of public transport. In the Government's proposal, the 60-day notice period would be significantly reduced. This would facilitate the adaptation of public transport to the prevailing conditions. Mr President! The legislation now proposed for a temporary amendment has been adopted in the light of other circumstances. President! I am sorry that I was not present during the Minister's speech. Thank you for having the minister here. You probably already raised the issue of road safety. However, I ask the Minister how has the overall impact of the proposed changes on road safety been assessed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u44	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for his presentation and for the fact that I think it is quite balanced and that it also takes into account the various points of view that have been raised in this Chamber during this debate. I am pleased that the aim of the proposal is, above all, to protect people from risk groups, including through temporary amendments to the driving licence law, and also to safeguard goods transport, both across borders and within Finland, in connection with both maritime transport and road transport and related licensing legislation. Mr. Speaker! This situation has also been raised here, and, admittedly, I drew some attention to the point when this draft government proposal was published that it was recorded there. I understand, on the one hand, the starting point, which certainly was the aim of the Ministry's manufacturers, when considering whether it would be sensible to introduce certain exceptions to the survey activities for this spring and summer, but, as has been well mentioned here in the proposal, in practice, the inspection offices and survey operators have already been able to take care of the safety of customers and of these safety intervals, given that, in this draft, this time limit left between March and June, so in practice, since we are already in the early part of May, that flexibility would in fact have been rather limited, and therefore I think it is well described in this proposal that, then, Minister, you have reached a different solution and, in fact, I consider this solution to be very good and justifiable in this respect. It is a good idea to support this proposal in this regard, and I also very much welcome the solution that has been found here in relation to roadworthiness testing. It would have been rather strange that, at a time when other societies are now being strongly opened up, the next stage of this crisis management would have been introduced into the transport sector again, but in a situation where the number of people affected has fallen significantly and these regional differences are already quite large in that respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u45	Mr President! This proposal must be supported — thanks to the government for it — and, in particular, the proposal to amend the driving licence law is certainly very appropriate in this situation for citizens, especially older people. In other words, this amendment will allow the post-ex post submission of the medical opinion necessary for the renewal of the licence, but no later than five months after the date of renewal of the licence if the licence is to be renewed by 31 October 1920. The Corona virus epidemic has led to a strain on health care and has made it difficult to obtain urgent contact times. They would certainly be available on the private side, but it is usually much more expensive there and these services are not available everywhere in Finland. This government proposal states that this five-month slide would ensure that health care would not then be burdened after the epidemic, but I am concerned about this burden, because I do take it for granted that the burden will be quite considerable when we get out of this epidemic, not just for this reason, but also because elective or urgent cuts have taken place after the epidemic, as well as many long-term medical periods. Concerns have been expressed here, for example, that people have not even sought cancer research, and it is possible that we will see an increase in morbidity and indeed the burden of health care. In any case, at this stage, it is necessary not to put unnecessary pressure on the public to leave for this very reason now, but, indeed, on the health side, we will have to deal with this burden later and find ways of dealing with it in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u46	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for his presentation and for the fact that the government has brought this government's proposal here in the Chamber. I personally hope that this will get a speedy reading, and I believe that it will also get a quick reading in committee and get the report into effect and the law into force. I would also like to thank the whole Chamber for having gained common understanding and a common vision, apparently in all the parliamentary groups. It is a good sign that the matter has been well prepared and is an important issue. After all, this change will make it easier for citizens and businesses to operate and ensure that transport is functioning under these difficult circumstances. The aim is to protect the elderly and people at risk in particular. There are a few points I would like to raise here: The taxi sector and the bus and coach sector in particular are in very serious difficulties at the moment, due to the fact that the utilisation rates have fallen to a very low level, and it is therefore important that this government proposal also pays attention to this. I personally hope that, in future, the following aid packages, or others, will also be able to see how bus transport, bus and coach transport, can be supported. Then this, that medical certificates can be submitted afterwards: All in all, it is a very good thing that we protect those over 75 years of age so that they do not come into contact too often with different parties. The fact that the professional qualifications of lorry drivers and bus drivers would continue to apply here until 31 October 20 without the required further training is, in my view, a good thing, and, overall, I hope that, when we return to life after the corona period, we will also be paying attention to these time limits for different licence cards and qualifications, so that they might perhaps be revised more relaxed. I hope so. Then this issue of the abolition of the suspension of periodic roadworthiness tests for vehicles: it is a very good thing that the survey industry itself has paid attention to this and has reacted and is taking reform measures. Finally, Mr President, this is not really related to this government proposal, but when the Minister of Transport is here, I would like to express the concern that has been expressed on that eastern and south-eastern border, particularly by customs officials. When foreign truck traffic comes, for example, from the Russian side, how are they checked, what are the protective equipment and so on? I personally hope that further attention will be paid to this guidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u47	Mr President! This government proposal is a fine-tuning of the restrictions on the coronavirus epidemic — important measures, small-scale but important in its own way. I would like to draw attention to one point here, Mr President, and it is still making it easier for the groups at risk to be isolated or not to create situations where they would encounter other people unnecessarily. Above all, this is a minor fine-tuning of the renewal of driving licences over 70 years of age. It is important to take into account the situation of those over 70 years of age, but since it is likely that the corona virus will now be more permanent here among us, at some point we will be in a situation where we will have to make more precise adjustments to these requests for quarantine-like conditions for those over 70 years of age. The current situation, if mortality statistics are considered for coronavirus, is that the median age of the deceased is 84 years and 70% of all deaths are over 80 years of age, i.e. the central peak, the critical point appears to be 80 years rather than 70 years. Between 70 and 79 years of age there are about 15 % of the dead and then the rest are under 70 years of age. Yes, 70-year-olds are also a risk group, obviously, it is also reflected in these statistics. But perhaps at some point we will have to think a little about how to get this normal life done, because it is now unreasonable that, when loneliness has been a national disease of our elderly people at an earlier stage, now, quite understandably, this corona crisis has led to an even greater promotion of this isolation, a sort of recommendation being made. We must try to think about the ways in which the next step will come out of this, and I am sure that the government will think about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u48	Mr President! Although Mr Reijonen is not present, he is obliged to comment on the funding of basic infrastructure management. That is where this government adds about 400 million dollars a year, and this year, for example, it appeared in asphalts that nearly 4,000 kilometres of surfaces have been refurbished. That a government program should read there even on the right side. I think that good preparation from the Minister and the Ministry — all these amendments to the driving licence law and derogations are now being brought here at once. There has been a slight deviation from the normal consultation of legislation, but what is essential here is that all the key players have been consulted and, in my opinion, also well taken into account in these legislative changes and regulations — sensible changes, from the point of view of health care, from the point of view of additional burden, and also from the point of view of special groups, workers and older people and their protection in this situation of interest. The most important thing is, of course, that this ensures that rubber wheels continue to run in Finland, that goods run on the tracks and that the goods also run in water traffic, and then that this does not endanger the livelihoods of taxis and others in particular. Good reforms in this situation, and good preparation. Well, then, here's the question of the survey. It has become a lot of thanks to the companies. They have actually paid attention to this service concept now in this interest rate situation. I think that Mr Marttinen well described the kind of services, the repertoire that is being made there at the moment, and then the safety and cleanliness elements have also been introduced. This would probably have meant that many roadworthiness offices would have lost their way if the hatches had been closed. And now, of course, these sidings, which are now coming up, are a little questionable, but I think a good response from the Minister. And here, even as far as road safety is concerned, there are no miraculous steps to take now — when someone has asked — but it is a matter of short-term and temporary measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u49	Mr President! Over the last few weeks, the government has brought more than a hundred proposals and regulations into this Chamber to respond to the current corona crisis, and it is a praiseworthy place that the Minister of Transport is now also bringing in a proposal to amend the legislation in the transport sector temporarily, which, above all, will safeguard the continuity of road and rail transport and shipping, despite exceptional circumstances, and which has one common factor, i.e. protecting people and risk groups from contact. I am not going to repeat everything that has already been mentioned in this good debate that this proposal contains. I would like to say that it is a good thing that a number of different proposals have been lumped together here, extended the deadlines for the expiry of driving licences, so that the current burden on that side of health care can be reduced, and that these really come as a package and not as individual presentations. This will also make it easier for this parliamentary procedure to take place. There has indeed been a good debate here, which I have listened to carefully, and I believe, on the basis of this debate, that we in the Committee on Transport and Communications have a good opportunity to deal with this proposal in good cooperation and also in a timely manner so that these changes can be brought into force as soon as possible. We have already anticipated that, when this proposal was submitted, we were in fact asking for 20 written statements on this, which we will then be able to work with the committee tomorrow, and this referral debate will also serve as a good lunch. Road safety is a matter of great importance to me and it is good to say that this explanatory statement of the proposal has pointed out that this temporary change, during exceptional circumstances, does not have an impact on road safety, because this is indeed so short-term. The changes will also shift the workload for the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency beyond these exceptional circumstances. It is true that what is now not done is waiting for us all out there somewhere to come. But thank you to the Minister, we will do our best in committee to achieve this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u50	Mr President! Indeed, I must say to the Minister that it is well done, so to speak, in the form of a package for us in the committee, that is, we are likely to be able to do quite easily even relatively quickly. There is, of course, the President-in-Office, the Vice-President, in the Chamber, with the same speeches: I do not think that there is a great need to grapple with this. The only concern I have is that the Federation of Private Inspection Sites is somewhat concerned about the wording of the EU article, and now I would like to state that if the minister took over the ball and considered that there was no child at all that we would have to catch up with these testing stations. I have to say that I personally am not so familiar with the article as to say whether it is true, but this is the kind of concern that I have heard from the fields when, of course, it is quite familiar with the sector because of its own cases. It is great that those card cases and these will become flexible in these jobs, and there is not so much urgency in getting professional cards either. Of course, I believe that professional cards could be discontinued as a whole, because they have been designed to improve road safety and know-how, but in reality it does exactly the opposite — I can tell you about it sometimes. But at least what the vice-president of the committee, Mrs Torniainen, said that there would be longer periods. Personally, even a card for this current job has become old, and now there is nothing more to do than do hobby work on the wheel of big cars. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u51	Mr President! When I was a police officer, I was dealing with these driving licences and licensing decisions, medical certificates, and so forth. I think it is a very good idea to move this, but I would ask the honourable Minister to take note of the fact that it is absolutely necessary to remind there at the end of the transfer period that this medical certificate will be obtained, that it will not happen to some seniors in the way that the time is up and that he no longer remembers that he should have gone to the doctor. To take this into account. In this field of professional qualifications, it will certainly also be appropriate to transfer as long as there are enough of these training days at the time when the professional card is beginning to expire. This transfer of survey: I myself visited my own car in my own locality and talked to these surveyors, did not consider it necessary. I myself made such clear remarks: your hands, distances, customers expected a reasonable amount of air outside the testing station to be inspected by their own car, and after the survey, the surveyor with the disinfectant also wiped the steering wheel and gear lever of the car, so this was quite well taken into account. I do not see the need for such a transfer of time in this situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u52	Mr President! Thank you for your good and friendly lunches. Congressman Reijonen really did leave. I would also have mentioned the fact that, during this term of government, much more than EUR 2 billion will be set aside to increase road paving, to provide basic access. And that really means this summer that 2.5 times the amount that has already been stated in the budget that there will be more paving work compared to last summer. But that's not all. We are preparing an amending budget in which more of these appropriations are being made available for paving, precisely because these asphalt cars are already on the move, they will be made available immediately, where they are already at your disposal. And when, under normal circumstances, those roadwork may be a little annoying, perhaps we now see them as a sign that life continues, the economy will one day grow and the future will come. With regard to this virus, COVID-19, we have to say that the situation is changing and has changed all the time. Until weeks ago, there was a situation in which many elderly people were concerned about this survey. And of course we want to serve the citizens and we have explained that there is room for flexibility here. At the time — it seems as if we were talking about a completely different time when I was talking about just a few weeks ago — many were also in serious contact and suggested that the change of tires should definitely be postponed. But, fortunately, now we are in a situation where there is a rather unanimous view that the situation is under control and that there is no need for such action. But perhaps in response to Mr Räsänen, our aim now, of course, is to share this burden more evenly with the knowledge we are now in. In fact, at this very moment, it seems that the public side will have quite a good time if it is not necessary to postpone its various needs. Mr Kivisaari asked about road safety, to which the chairman of the committee, Mr Kymäläinen, already replied: no significant effects. But if we were to postpone those tests, then we would have several months, if not longer, of unfit vehicles, and then the situation would be quite different. Of course, it would also help to slow down the renewal of the car fleet, which is also our objective. Now, on these many concerns of the planned EU directive, I will mention just these. Vice-President Torniainen rightly drew attention to the plight of the taxi sector and the bus sector. This touches me every day. Of course, there are general business subsidies available, which has already helped with some hundreds of taxis. And luckily, the school rides are starting now. But we must be able to take care of the operating conditions of public transport, and perhaps we must all make every effort to restore people's confidence that public transport is safe. That is also our joint task here. As far as border security is concerned, both the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Border Guard have carefully instructed these professional drivers both in all ports and at all land borders. There is, of course, the common interest of all, both employers and workers, as well as drivers, and that the wheels rotate and the goods travel. Here the ACP and SKAL, the employers' and workers' unions, have worked well together, and I am pleased to say that the health situation with regard to the key staff in this society is quite good. With these paraphrases, I can leave this government proposal in the good hands of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u53	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for being here during this debate, and thank you for the very good and clarifying answers. I would just like to comment to the extent that the public sector really does get those times, but that is largely due to the fact that people are afraid to go to a health centre now. In particular, many elderly people, over 70 years of age, take this quarantine recommendation very seriously and are afraid to move to health centres. That is why we can see and fear that the burden of health care at the time when we start moving is really great, and that will be the same with the reform of the driving licences. But it would be good to take this message as such to say that it is worth going to the health centre to renew the driving licence at this stage and not to use the five-month delay period — at least to ask the health centre for this possibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u54	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u55	Mr President! This is about the fact that the activities of the Ely Centre in South-East Finland are now being transferred to this Intelligent Traffic Management Finland Oy, which is then part of the state-owned special task group. So this group parent is this Traffic Management Finland. In fact, you might say that in this context I understand this arrangement, but Minister... [ The Minister moved to the Council of Ministers]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u56	Congressman Kymäläinen. — Or will the Minister make a presentation or will he answer the questions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u57	Mr President, Mr Harakka, Minister for Transport! Indeed, not everyone understands what is at stake even when we are talking about transport telecommunications, so in its simplicity it is about information and communication technology. This is really a technical presentation, a little off the record, because at the turn of the year the Finnish Transport Agency's traffic control and management services changed with the form of a limited liability company, at the beginning of the year a thousand and nine hundred... — 2019, let’s not go back hundreds of years. This is where Mr Essayah raised this matter of name, and I remember that there has been a debate on this, and if you will allow me, I would say that it is certainly more amusing to read these business cards, in which the various titles of the directors of Intelligent Traffic Management Finland are then listed — but this as a second side story. Thus, in connection with the regional connection or with the regional reform, it was thought that these tasks would then be carried forward, but they remained at the Ely Centre of South-East Finland when the regional reform did not take place, and that is why this so-called small transfer for these people is necessary and worthy of support. The aim of traffic management and management is to improve the safety and smooth flow of traffic and reduce emissions from transport and to make more efficient use of the road network, and this traffic management and management depends on a reliable, up-to-date transport system that is accessible through this information and communication technology (ICT), telecommunications. — Briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u58	Mr President! I think the Road Traffic Act will be coming into force pretty soon. When the committee turned on that report at the time — although I was not in that committee — I was reminded of the point in that report that, when it comes to speed limitation marks, which is the current speed and which is allowed to be driven, this mark must be fixed either to a large device or to its immediate proximity. — Now that this law comes into force, what is your assessment, Minister, should this be followed? — — — — Obviously it cannot be attached directly to that speed limit mark, but it can be attached to its immediate vicinity so that the citizen really knows when he sees the speed limit mark, that it is now worth reducing speed, which is the essential factor for road safety. This is also why it is important that, if you drive a lot, you get into a situation where speeds change quite a bit, even on our main routes, where it should be from 100 to 100 all the time, so that you can turn on the constant speed. Many automatically start to wonder what this speed is when the pole approaches. This is not such a fun story that, when you want to not have to pay a fine to the state, it is a matter of fair society and good governance, in my opinion, to be shown to motorists what is at stake, and those signs and cameras are only placed in dangerous places in such a way as to make it a situation that if someone is clearly speeding, then you choose it yourself and actually violates road safety rules. Do you have any idea whether the authorities — no matter who has this control — are prepared, because the time is passing and this law is coming into force quickly?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u59	Mr President! This proposal as such may be a technical one, but it is linked to a larger entity whose tracks go to that previous parliamentary term, when this House approved this major reform of the agency in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The new Finnish Transport Agency and the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency Traficom were created and then these traffic management services were transferred to the Ministry of Transport's special task group. At that time, in my previous role — I admit quite frankly — I doubted this whole exercise, but I would really like to hear the Minister's assessment, now that you have carried out the task, what experience you have in the ministry at the moment with regard to this new system for these central agencies and these traffic control services: is it working optimally at the moment, or do we need to, among other things, in the committee then to draw attention to some points, for example, in relation to the division of labour? I would like to take one example, which relates to the fact that although the Fairway Agency is, in principle, responsible for the design of our central road and rail infrastructure, Traficom will then approve these plans. It seems strange, which is why these transport tasks have in fact been split up in both of these agencies. There must have been some good reason why this has been done in the past, but from the point of view of such a simple hundred people, this may raise more questions than answers again. Minister, I would also like you to give me an assessment of how this companying of traffic control services has been going. I remember that there was quite a lot of thought in the past about what would happen, for example, in terms of costs, because these costs are, however, covered by that article on basic infrastructure maintenance. It will then be important to ensure that these costs are transparent so that the item in basic infrastructure maintenance does not become such a leaking item, and that the appropriations are redirected to a different purpose than to where the vast majority of its resources should in principle be allocated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u60	Mr President! I would like to add to the speeches made by Essayah and Eestilä in that, first of all, I strongly support the idea that in Finland we should respect our own identity and the Finnish language. It is, in a way, unreasonable for us to take a business model in that companies, especially those in international interaction, export, international consultation and the like, take names in English to make them understandable in international interaction. But it is quite unreasonable for state companies, which operate primarily on the domestic market, to begin to identify themselves as if through Anglo-Saxonism. To what extent, in fact, would I like to ask, this Intelligent Traffic Management Finland operates internationally? How much does it do for consulting or foreign trade? Surely this is not the background to the idea — someone might mischievously ask — that at some point we may be selling out our road network a bit like à la Caruna was made for the energy network? This is not the case, I know it is, but in some way it feels strange, strange to have a name like this. The post office used to be Itella and then ended up returning to Post so that we could understand in Finland what it was all about and hope that such state companies would try to be Finnish names. Guts, and so forth, were used in the past. Then, on behalf of Mr Eestilä, on traffic control: That is not the real question here, but I would also like to support it. Camera surveillance, which is becoming more and more frequent in Finland, also has excesses and, in fact, weaknesses in terms of road safety in that too many of us — including me — come to these camera points and see and hit the brakes, because it is not quite certain whether there was an 80, 60 or 100 here, and, in case of certainty, there will then be sudden braking, and the next motorist will have a problem back there, or I myself will have to face a situation where sudden braking takes place in front and then have to react very quickly. This camera surveillance, especially in this way, that they are made in traps, that it suddenly comes from the difficult corners, to the somewhat unexpected situations, in order to perhaps maximise those profits, is not appropriate. Yes, we must act, and it is good that traffic restrictions are now being monitored, but this should be the common sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u61	I cannot say that the title is not in the title, under the heading, but that is not the point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u62	Mr President! After all, this government proposal relates to the state's third draft amending budget for 2020 and it is therefore good that it is now here in our debate. Although it is a very technical matter, in practice the reform of the LVM agencies has been carried out during the last parliamentary term and will then come to us for discussion. In practice, this is a staff transfer from the Ely Centre of South-East Finland to ITM Finland Oy, abbreviated — which has been the subject of a debate on this name issue, and I agree very much with these critical speeches that we should also favour Finnish-language names in the agencies. If you ask a citizen for this name, you hardly know what it means, and many other people don’t. But, in fact, when the minister is here — thanks to the fact that during both Government performances the minister has had time to be here in the Chamber, despite the haste of time — I ask about this problem that, now that these tasks are transferred from the Ely of South-East Finland to ITM Finland Oy and South-East Finland Ely has himself commented on the need for a delegation of tasks in order to carry out their duties in a smooth manner, yet we will have certain customer service tasks left behind at the Ely Centre of Pirkanmaa: it is obviously appropriate that we also have certain customer service tasks to the Fairway Office and then the Ely of Pirkanmaa and ITM Finland will have these transferred from Ely here?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u63	Representative Eestilä, followed by Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u64	Mr President! Just like this kind of statement of principle, which apparently relates to this issue, is that when tasks and personnel are transferred to a limited company, so how this limited liability companies are controlled, that it does not begin to live its own life and come up with its own ideas and that it is under clear control. The real question is, in fact, how big a government this is going to be, and who is there in the board of directors who, according to their own views, will then apparently begin to direct this company's operational activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u65	Mr President! Indeed, the presentation of this HE has now been made in a somewhat perverse order, but I would like to thank the Members for their good work on it. Indeed, a very small transfer of seven man-years is at stake, and the idea is precisely that the part of traffic management that focuses on these very technical issues will then be made available to this competent staff for its own use, and in practice everyone in the consultation has supported this transfer. Of course, it is good to say in this context that this change follows a good staff policy and this is done in cooperation with staff representatives. Indeed, these mergers have been carried out during my predecessor's time, and as far as these appointments are concerned, I would say that these are not, of course, part of my long list of sins, but I think that this re-nomination of the agencies of our administration has earned the blame of the judicial authority, so it is of course worth paying attention to this. Why, then, is it Intelligent Traffic Management Finland Oy as part of the Traffic Management Finland Group, there is a reason to send greetings to Professor Janne Saarikivi, who has also pointed out his own workplace, the University of Helsinki, as a rule, in English. I understand that both these phenomena, i.e. this Anglo-Saxonism, both for the university and for these transport tasks, are linked to the fact that when Finland is the leading digital society in the world, there have been hopes and certainly measures to ensure that traffic management is also an export product. I know that there really is such an effort in this group structure, and why not? To Mr Marttinen, it is still a little early to say how this merger has worked. It has been in force for such a short time. It has set savings targets, which were challenging even before this period of interest rates, but yet the balance sheet and the cashier of these companies have been quite good at these difficult interest rates, taking into account, for example, the virtually halting of air traffic control activities. With regard to the ideas given to these board members of limited liability companies, I hope that there will be a wide range of, fresh and radical ideas. They are part of the ownership steering of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and the members of the board that I have also been appointing to these various group companies come from both expert organisations and to a great extent also from the private business community, and it is gratifying that such tasks and the interesting development of transport digitalisation and telematics are also of interest to a number of people who have already acquired incentives in business life. To Mr Eestilä, the fact that this is where we come into a situation where we are probably aiming for this digital speed limit mark to be directly linked to the standard speed range of the car and in this way we can ensure that no one has to pay unnecessary fines. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u66	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u67	Mr President! The current Government proposal proposes that Parliament adopt amendments to the Code of Conduct of the International Labour Organisation for Maritime Labour, 2006 and the law on the enforcement of provisions falling within the scope of its legislation. In 2018, the ILO Conference adopted amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention guidelines prepared by the Tripartite Special Committee. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure the continuity of seafarers’ contracts of employment and pay in the event of piracy or armed robbery. In such situations, seafarers may be imprisoned for long periods of time. The adoption of amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention guidelines for Finland and their implementation require the adoption of a law. In order to implement the amendments to the guidelines, it is proposed to amend the Maritime Labour Contracts Act so as to extend the employment relationship of the employee imprisoned as a result of piracy or armed robbery on board the vessel and the related salary payment during imprisonment. The proposal also proposes clarifications to the Maritime Labour Contracts Act, the Maritime Working Time Act and the Law on Working Time in Domestic Ships, based on the guidance already in force in the Maritime Labour Convention. These changes concern, inter alia, the complaint procedure on board the ship and certain issues relating to working and rest periods. In addition, technical amendments are proposed to certain maritime labour laws. The amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention will enter into force internationally on 26 December 2020 with a view to ensuring that the law on the transposition of the amendments and changes based on changes to the Maritime Labour Contracts Act will enter into force at the same time as the international entry into force of the amendments by the Government Decree. Other laws are proposed to enter into force 1. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u68	Mr President! Some afternoon newspaper already appeared to be flouting with this bill that “the payment of wages in piracy was secured ” or something else. It is understandable, as the Minister went through, that this relates to the agreements under the International Labour Organisation Convention, which Finland too is committed to and which it then wishes to implement in its own legislation. Of course, it is very desirable and perhaps quite likely that this legislation should hardly be used in Finland, but, of course, this situation also needs to be prepared. Of course, here a few years ago it seemed surprising that piracy began to take place, especially on the coast of Africa, but there has also been much talk of this kind of practice by states recently — I do not know whether it is perhaps piracy now or rather ship-taking or hijacking. Surely, in situations of this kind, this kind of legislation would also be applicable. It is, of course, appropriate to take this forward and into Finnish legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u69	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, TyVM 5/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Mr Kontula, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u70	Mr President! The law on the register of substances and methods that pose a risk of cancer was before us in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities for a long time. The proposal is politically somewhat problematic and does not arouse any political passions in one direction or another, but technically it was very difficult because it is being adapted to the EU Data Protection Regulation, which itself has quite new legislation and whose national use we do not yet have very well established practices. In its report, the committee concluded with three clarifications: firstly, on the recommendation of the Constitutional Committee, we are opening the mechanism for the protection of personal data in the report a little more detail than the government's proposal. Secondly, we are streamlining into the Publicity Act the provision on the disclosure of information for research purposes. And thirdly, we will clarify the retention period rule by clearly limiting it to the register only.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u71	Mr President! Just as the chairman of the committee said, there is certainly no major political disagreement here, but the committee has done a good job of taking account of these requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation of the European Union, which affect how these personal data are processed and how they can and must be regulated at national level. It is important that information on these substances, mixtures, working methods that cause cancer or damage to genetics used at the workplace, as well as on the workers exposed to these factors, is collected. The information listed by the employer will continue to be reported to the so-called ASA register held by the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, and the law will then also provide for the transfer of the data to the ASA register and the retention periods. The committee has done a good job in this regard, and in that way the matter is moving forward without dispute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u72	Mr President! I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for his intensive and analytical presentation on this matter. I would like to make three brief comments. The first relates to the fact that, as the chairman of the committee said, there is a great deal to be said about data protection. If I concreteise this by example: If a person has worked under conditions in which he or she becomes registered for such cancerous work, and then he/she changes his/her job later, it is very significant that the information, or as if the stamp which he/she could have become a member of such a register, would not go the wrong way forward, because we know that employers may think that if he/she becomes unworkable prematurely and then incurs costs for the employer, then it may be an obstacle to employment or an obstacle — I just set one example, but I think that these are now well-managed in the way that they are written here. I do not want to extend this issue as it were to other issues, but that much, without any artificial bridge: I have a vision of the link between the current and the much discussed corona epidemic of all today's issues, and I can see two aspects here: The first is that human diseases are developing very complexly, and we are, in quotes, part of an incomprehensible human experiment at the moment. Traffic accidents are decreasing, accidents at work are decreasing, and we can assume that exposure to cancer-threatening substances in the past, for example, in working life, will also be reduced when you do not work there. This will be visible then in such a way that when later we can look back at these times that we are now living in, so even if we are living in this kind of epidemic, then we will have certain diseases reduced. But then there is the other side which was actually referred to in Mr Räsänen's speech on this issue of vehicles. So now there are some 35,000 new cancer cases in Finland every year, and there is only a period of two or three months when people do not seek urgent treatment or cannot seek urgent treatment as quickly as before, when it is a question of several thousand new cancers in that period, and even if only a fraction of them are diagnosed late, we can see later the difficulty and growth of cancer cases in these areas. In other words, this matter has already been dealt with here before, and that is how it relates to the matter under discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u73	Mr President! Like others here, I think it is very important that people's privacy and the protection of personal data are taken care of. Although the information entered in the register does not directly reflect human health, the personal data to be recorded may reveal information and expectations regarding the health status of the worker which may expose the worker to risks associated with the misuse of the data. I believe that the committee has taken this into account in its report and that it is well balanced.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u74	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 1/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u75	Mr President! Here, too, we are talking about the implementation of the Exchange of Letters Agreement between Finland and the United Nations on the status of a laboratory for technological innovations, UNITIL, and the implementation of the provisions of the Act on the law. The main objective of this is to apply the UN Agency for Project Services to the UNTIL Office in Finland, as well as to the privileges and immunities of the Office and its staff. Mr President! This is once again one of these international agreements, the implementation of which is important in Finland and in Finnish legislation. In this context, perhaps in such a general way, I would like to raise the issue of the independence of UN organisations, even in the context of this corona crisis. As regards the WHO in particular, certain doubts have been raised as to whether its leadership might have been put under pressure as part of a major power policy. Mr President! I think it is very important that, at this time, such complete independence and political neutrality of UN organisations can be maintained. In that sense, it is absolutely essential for the credibility of the entire UN system. Of course, when we are in a crisis like this, we go through the crisis and take those crisis measures, but it is certainly necessary to assess afterwards whether China, for example, has had certain pressure measures against the WHO and, for example, to inform and inform about the crisis. Mr President! To go back to this proposal, you are once again making progress in legislation. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-05-ps-66.u76	Mr President! This report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on this government proposal on the financing of UNTIL and its permanence in Finland is unanimous, i.e. this is completely uncontroversial in that respect. In its own opinion, the committee stresses that it is very important that Finland should open up in relation to the international community, and through these small UN institutions, which have now gradually come here, this is where the family of UN institutions, international institutions, is beginning to form. In the 1980s, of course, the first institution was the United Nations University Development Research Institute Wider, and later we have got UNOPS here, and now this UNTIL, the technology innovation laboratory. This report, which the Committee on Foreign Affairs has done here, also underscores the fact that its themes and priorities correspond to the priorities of Finland's development cooperation, because this is financed by development cooperation funds for Finland, i.e. ODA eligible funding, which is behind this. It is very important that these priorities focus not only on technological innovation in the technical sense but also on social innovation, so that we can see from the broader development policy perspective of this pilot and innovation activity. The focus is on sustainable development, climate change, education and peace and security. These are correct observations, right priorities, and they are priorities in Finland's development policy, and in that respect we also expect that, if the UN institutions operate here, they will move around these corners. These three institutions, UNOPS, Wider and UNTIL, complement each other. In this case, when this UNTIL is still located in that direction of Espoo, there will be such synergy benefits from the fact that these are all technological innovation activities, intellectual activities, even now in terms of development research, and even in this respect these institutions each form a small cluster of grants. In this respect, however, it is not yet appropriate to celebrate Finland as a centre of international institutions, but, of course, Geneva and Vienna will continue to be a major European investment place for UN institutions. There are still Rome, Paris, Copenhagen and so on, which are central and have a much stronger UN presence, but this is how Finland, in its own way, will be involved in supporting the UN. Mr Essayah referred to this wider crisis in the UN system in that some international actors are disengaging themselves from the UN family. He pointed out that there was a need to go over China's possible action in relation to the WHO as to whether there were interests that have weakened the WHO's independence. It is also worth examining, but it is also regrettable that, above all, the leading donor has also reacted very non-constructively in relation to these activities of the UN system by withdrawing from WHO funding, and this crisis must of course be seen as a whole. There is reason to discuss the independence and role of institutions, but sudden gestures of this kind are bad. Finland is working long-term and fine in this respect, and also in the direction of the WHO has increased its funding, and now, in the case of UNTIL, we are getting a new, permanent UN Institute here, which must be greeted with joy.
