ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I now call on the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u2	Congressman Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u3	Mr President! Once again it happened, this time in Paris. In a particularly brutal way, the Islamist murdered an innocent person in the middle of the street. The target was a school teacher who had spoken about freedom of speech at school. According to public records, the teacher was murdered because he presented cartoons of the Muslim holy man Muhammad. The case has been widely reported in the media. That's what you're supposed to do. But one point has drawn my attention to: there has been no public condemnation of the act in the government's ranks, even though the French themselves feel that this is a terrorist attack on France's fundamental values, such as freedom of expression. Why have you not condemned the terrorist attack in public? Have you become numbed or even accepted Islamic extremism as part of the present process?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u4	Mr President! It is quite clear that the government condemns this brutal act of terrorism in the strongest terms. We have also, of course, been in contact with the French authorities and we are in full support of the work carried out by the French in this work to find out what kind of network or more players have been involved in such an attack. This is clearly an attack on peaceful citizens and, as the questioner says, against freedom of expression, against the democratic principles of justice that we all believe in. I know that cooperation with the French authorities in dealing with this issue will work properly and well. We condemn this act very strongly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u5	I would now like to ask those Members who wish to ask supplementary questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up, that is, by pressing from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u6	Mr President! I'm glad we brought this up. Now you were allowed to publicly express your regret, namely that the people did not know that you have apologized. The Black Lives Matter movement has been supported quite without criticism by the government, even though, as we know, the riots of the movement are often quite a riot. In addition, you have at least quietly accepted the action of Elokapina. When you think of the fact that there was no public disapproval of this tremendously brutal terrorist murder, it comes to mind that the government condemns only a certain course of action in public, one that does not anger extremist Islam. The protection police found that women from al-Holi camp pose a security threat in Finland and continue to engage in terrorist activities. Are you going to expel Islamic extremists from Finland, such as France? And how do you ensure that this does not happen in Finland and that freedom of expression works?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u7	Mr President! Thank you for the important question. It is quite clear that the fight against terrorism is a common task for all of us, and the government is already doing a great deal here. Among other things, we have in the legislative plans a new legislative project on police assistance to the Defence Forces, which should combat terrorist acts. The Ministry of Justice is preparing updates of the legislation on terrorism, which responds better to the needs of a changing world. The Government has invested financially in various exit programmes implemented in cooperation between authorities and organisations. Efforts are being made to prevent radicalisation in all its forms and, at a very early stage, to catch those difficult cases, perhaps, it is said, people of concern, as the police are talking about. In other words, preventive action, the prevention of exclusion, with all this, we are investing in ensuring that people do not have to resort to such shocking activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u8	Mr President! Behind Islamic attacks there are usually individuals acting alone who have been inspired by social media or a local mosque. The debate often revolves around organisations and networks, such as Isis, but this is avoiding the real problem. Many studies show that Islamist thinking is mainstreamed in many Muslim communities in Europe. The backward Islam provides the basis for terrorism, honour violence and other mild phenomena. Islamism is not an individual-level mental health problem; it is a violent world view that spreads in Europe through immigration and through the seed of poison in mosques and Koran schools. I would like to ask: how does the government intend to address these root causes?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u9	Mr President! Mr Halla-aho certainly knows very well that there is also a very strong, theological or doctrinal debate in the Islamic world about what is the nature of Islam, and there are very many Islamic religious scholars who, in the strongest terms, condemn all such violence and all such acts of terrorism, which have also happened in France. It is very important to note that this debate is also taking place within this group of religions, and it is important to support all the voices that speak for moderate and tolerant Islam, and it is also very strong in the world. It is very important that this is taken into account in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u10	Mr President! Islamism affects our societies in many other ways than by cutting off collars — not only in France but everywhere where the special demands of Muslims are spread and given over. In the case of France, Islam is also the target and harassment of the teacher and the demands for restrictions on freedom of expression even before this violence takes place. The problem is not unknown in Finland either. Very often we hear that there has been no courage to tackle these problems, because it may be offensive or be accused of being racist or Islamophobic. It was symbolic that yesterday, when a memorial ceremony was held in France in honor of a murdered teacher, our Minister for the Interior was concerned about the responsibility of the word, the hate speech on immigration and the ease in which the negative asylum decisions could remain in the country. I ask the Minister: do you think that we should speak more beautifully about these problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u11	Mr President! In the Government Programme, the five parties have jointly committed themselves to looking at the fact that Finland cannot be born on the fringes of society as if a shadow society in which people live without permits. We are currently preparing an action plan against illegal immigration and residence. The Government has already jointly approved a programme of measures against violent extremism and radicalisation. As I mentioned, the laws on terrorism are being updated. There will be additional resources for the police next year, among other things, for action to prevent exclusion — as I said, no one would be left out so as not to have to resort to extremist activities. Ankuri activities, which I often raise, are an example of this. It has good experience of working with different minority groups — the police, in cooperation with social welfare and health authorities, the youth service, among other things, are working to improve trust in the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u12	Madam President! As we remember, the perpetrator of the terrorist act in Turku was a person who received a negative asylum decision. In the Ministry of the Interior, the programme against illegal entry and residence is currently being updated, which, according to the Minister of the Interior of Ohio and Hulkkonen, Head of Immigration of the Ministry of the Interior, is seeking routes for the person who has received a negative decision to obtain a residence permit on other grounds. So, by the way, we've come a long way from the footbands downtown. I would ask Minister Ohio: Does the safety of Finns mean anything to you? If so, why do you not drive measures to remove or remove illegal residents from the country instead of authorising them? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u13	Mr President! This government has invested more euros in security authorities than any government has in a long time before this. I find it a little unreasonable to blame the Minister for Immigration sometimes talks about immigration. I am the Minister for Internal Security and Migration. That's why I sometimes talk about these things because it's my job description. Indeed, the Government Programme has noted, among other things, that when there are people in this society who have received a negative asylum decision but have been employed, perhaps they have created family relationships, in education, so would it not be better for this society to have these people,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u14	Mr President! In the fight against terrorism, integration is a key issue. If integration fails, it will be a platform for the growth and emergence of terrorism. The problem with this is ganging up. We see a very warning example in Sweden. I myself have discussed on several occasions with Mr Kristersson the phenomenon of Sweden and the hard work that is being done in Sweden at the moment, with which this dangerous and rampant violence can be tackled. I would ask the Minister in charge because this phenomenon is also a major risk in Finland: have you been aware of this problem of gangbanging, and what measures is the government planning to take?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u15	Mr President! Thank you for the question. I am sure that the former Minister of the Interior is well aware that, in the administrative field of the Ministry of the Interior, this phenomenon is very well identified. This is something that I often discuss with the Central Crime Police, and also with my colleague, the Swedish Minister for the Interior, Mikael Damberg, a week ago, I discussed this issue, and the Nordic Ministers for the Interior often also exchange views, thoughts about what can be done and learned from others.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u18	Mr President! The protection police estimate that the threat of terrorism has also increased in Finland. There is now a need for a broader programme to combat organised crime. The prevention of radicalisation raised here is also a very important issue for cooperation between the authorities. But I would like to take up the government's future proposal to criminalise belonging to a terrorist organisation. Looks like it's about to be a torso. A working group set up by the government suggests that only the essential task of criminal activity is to be punished. Is the government really of the opinion that there is no need to criminalise the normal task of a terrorist organisation, i.e. one that does not fulfil the criterion of an essential task? The solution would be to criminalise membership of a terrorist organisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u19	Mr President! I think that everyone in this Chamber is concerned that one day there will be a terrorist act in Finland. [Base Finns Group :Events!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u20	Mr President! The Coalition Party has proposed a number of reforms to strengthen the fight against terrorism in our legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u23	Mr President! The government will do everything in its power now to have a law on terrorism that is in all respects equivalent to what is in the rest of the world. And actually the situation is that in this evaluation, which has now been carried out by officials, our legislation does not differ significantly from what is happening in the other Nordic countries. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u24	Mr President! The protection police estimate that the threat of terrorism in Finland is somewhat elevated. A few years ago, the website of the Protection Police said that there will be a significant number of people living in Finland. That information is public and can be found on the website. As I recall, there was talk of an order of magnitude between 400 and 500 people. Do you, the Minister for Justice or the Minister for the Interior, have any idea how many people are currently monitoring, how serious the threats are and to what extent intelligence legislation has provided tools for monitoring and reporting the matter to the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u25	Mr President! Thank you for your questions. The fight against terrorism is, of course, primarily the responsibility of the police in Finland — the Krp and the local police, of course, in cooperation with the protection police — and, as you mentioned as a member of the committee concerned, the intelligence laws are precisely providing us with new information for the entire state administration, how to prevent certain risks and threats which may be facing us in this world. I personally feel that I receive very much and good information from the protection police a few days ago, and this information is, of course, used in the whole way we think about the resources of the police, the protection police, in this society. Indeed, for these people of concern, both on the krp side and then on the downside, these statistics are being kept at the moment. I'm guessing the numbers are in this class. Of course, the police have that latest information and live all the time, and these people will then be subjected to different data collections as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u26	Mr President! In the case of terrorist offences, the problem is to obtain evidence, because in many cases these crimes may have been committed on the other side of the world, and we have also had trials in Finland, where there is not enough evidence to obtain convictions. In that sense, we would still need this enhanced legislation on the criminalisation of terrorism. After all, many good steps have been taken in recent years, but I would now like to ask Minister Henriksson: when this overall reform we are looking for is coming, would it be possible to include the extensions that have now been requested here, for example this residence permit or
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u28	Mr President! Here, whether it was last week, I was here to present the criminalisation of the financing of an individual terrorist. That show is now here in Parliament. The Committee on Legal Affairs is certainly having a debate on this and, as I said earlier, we have a working group which has worked hard and has also submitted a report which has been on the table. Now we are going to go through that feedback and we will shortly be taking a position on whether it will be the next step towards a major overall reform — then it will take a great deal more time — or whether it will be the next step to bring in a partial reform, in which participation in a terrorist organisation, for example, will be criminalised in some sensible way. This is the reflection,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u29	Mr. Speaker! It is quite clear that this whole House condemns terrorism completely. There is no religion, no belief, no cause for violence against innocent people, and our warm condolences to all of us there in France for this absolutely shocking act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u32	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kurvise, for this important question. The CPT of the Council of Europe, the Committee on the Prevention of Torture, visited Finland and has issued its preliminary report, and the report highlights, for example, its concern for the safety of prisons, for example, in Turku and Oulu. I've taken this very seriously. This committee will present its final report next spring and the government will have six months to respond to this. That's what we're gonna do. I have now also requested that we have a meeting with the Director of the Criminal Sanctions Agency to review this situation. This situation will also be discussed with the Prison Officers of the Federation. The government will increase funding to improve the safety of prisons. The problem now is also where to find staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u33	Mr President! Of course, I agree with the condemnations of colleagues in connection with this attack in France. All extreme phenomena leading to violence make life difficult for all of us in all societies, and they must be eradicated completely. There has been some talk of Islam here. Marshal Mannerheim thanked the Finnish Tatars for the Koran he had received from them during the wars, and especially for the fact that so many Muslims had died during the Winter War, during the post-war period under the Finnish flag. They felt strongly Finnish, they wanted to defend this country. Thousands of young people are now conscripts and have been trained and born in this country as Muslims and experience great ownership of this society. It is now up to us, society, how, like the Tatars in their day
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u34	Mr President! As regards this speech by Mr Al-Tae, it is good to continue that when we talk about crimes committed by people with foreign background in Finland, the important starting point is that Finland, as an open society, must defend the fact that we are a safe and international society at the same time. In particular, it is in the interests of those with foreign backgrounds that a small misdemeanor minority does not stigmatise a large, scrupulous majority acting in integrity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u37	Mr President! Thank you for the question. Of course, the coalition was a party in the previous government, and now these five parties are in this government together, and we have a joint government programme in which secure rule of law Finland is strengthened by various means. As I said, this government has invested more in security authorities than perhaps any government before this. There are a lot of things we're doing to fix the debt. We patch up many things that certain parties may not have been able to handle in the past. This is a serious question. Of course, when crimes are committed in this country, these people must be returned. It is also part of this entire asylum system — returns are part of it. If you are not entitled to asylum, then you will be returned. Of course, often this return is not possible. As former Home Affairs Ministers know, these return agreements are not easy to negotiate. This work is carried out by the government, including in the promotion of return agreements, both at EU and transnational level,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u38	I give one more question to the original author of this question. Congressman Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u39	Thank you, Mr President. It laughs a little when the left is shouting from there at Mr Arhinmäki’s mouth that ‘talk about the gas people’. Is it not the Finns and their daily lives that are affected by terrorism? Don't you guys follow the international media or anything at all? In addition, I would now like to point out that the Finnish People's Parliament Group was kicked out of the government in 2017, when we called for the implementation of this blackmail programme for immigration, so that now stop talking about it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u42	Mr President! As Minister of Education, I can also begin. As Minister of Education, I have also expressed my condolences directly to the French Minister of Education, with whom we have had good cooperation. I think that this attack, which was carried out there, is particularly reprehensible because it was directed at the teacher because of the work he did at school. My own view is that the best remedy against radicalisation is education — it is knowledge, it is open debate, and it is also a respectful speech and culture of conversation, and that is what the foundations of the Finnish curriculum strongly oblige, also critical debate and critical examination of various phenomena.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u43	Mr President! As the Minister for Education well says, this government has already made huge efforts in education at all levels.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u46	Let's move on. Next question, Congressman Heikki Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u47	Mr President! The Coalition Party wants to stop the rise in Finnish daily costs. We demand a refurbishment to control electricity transmission prices. We cannot accept family money using a monopoly. The sale of electricity networks was a mistake on the part of the State, but not the main reason for the increase in prices. Both private and municipal network companies are guilty of excessive price increases and profit distribution. Yle revealed that there is a model for the calculation of the authority behind this. The government has promised a proposal to contain transfer prices. The draft bill and the government's exits are torsos — they do not interfere with the core issue, the excessive monopoly yield. Minister Lintilä, we have to shut down this cash machine. Why do you not implement the legislative amendments proposed by the Convention?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u50	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank the representative for being very active in this matter. You are in almost every session when I have been here, brought this up, and that is a good thing. I've been watching that model of yours. There are a lot of good things about it, but on the other hand, it puts the whole control side of the Energy Agency back up quite a bit. If we want faster changes, this government bill will bring them much faster. Of course, we are now replacing the law that was adopted at that time in 2013.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u53	Now I ask those representatives who want to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u54	Mr President! Indeed, municipal network companies have significantly increased prices equally. The law now needs to address electricity transmission prices. Minister Lintilä, you and your officials have said that there could be no law to change the profit model that allows network companies to rob. That is not true. The EU cannot go behind it — a legal report has already been submitted to your ministry in the spring, indicating that the EU directive or the Constitution will not prevent this excessive model of income from being tackled. We need to act quickly. The solution is ready and will then be implemented by the Energy Agency. The current state, the overpricing of electricity transmission, costs Finns more than one million euros extra every single day. Minister Lintilä, you've postponed this bill twice now. What's taking so long? I already asked in the spring and I ask again: Are you defending Finnish households or monopoly money? What is your solution?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u55	Mr President! I defend Finnish households. For what reason this has been postponed: the representative remembers very well that we had an agreement in Parliament that controversial laws would not be introduced during the spring session,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u60	Mr President! Under no circumstances should the costs of Finnish everyday life be raised in this situation. Electricity transmission prices are perceived as parafiscal charges. People think that at regular intervals a note will fall out of the mail door, stating that ‘prices are rising as much as they need to be done’. In other words, in everyday life, people are in a rather difficult situation because each network company is the only player in its sector, so in practice the consumer does not have the option of choosing his company, i.e. doing anything. Many feel that payments made in past years have been unbearablely hard. Would it be possible to refund these fees to these customers in the future, Minister Lintilä?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u61	Mr President! I would find it very difficult. These companies are limited companies. In fact, there are many municipal companies there, and of course it is appropriate to ask whether there is any hidden tax, that is to say, the payment of the municipal people — that is a quite legitimate question. But, with interest — which I know as a good friend of the free market economy — I expect you to tell these companies that they have to return that money. However, I think it is now a better option for us to make legislation that will enable us to contain the rise in costs or bills that every electricity consumer will have.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u62	Mr President! Even if electricity is not consumed at all, the transmission charge runs, which means that the price of the electricity bill cannot be affected much even if it is not consumed. There have been many cases in public: Here's Esa Rantanen's electric bill, using 21 kilowatts of electricity. Electricity price 1.50 euros, transmission fee 94 euros.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u67	Mr President! Of course, that line to that cabin has been drawn, and that readiness exists. A rather difficult whole would be to pull the line but not have to pay more than the expenses that came out of it. Now we really need to remember the starting point from which we started. You remember well — at least the oldest of us: there was storm Mauri and storm Tapani. We had 550,000 people in Finland without electricity, when it came to having to come and secure electricity. And it touched just as much, whether it's a cabin or a permanent place. The fact that they are going to be removed — it is extremely difficult to believe that it will succeed, because it is just as much the basic infrastructure that has been built there. This is what it is all about, and that is why this law is now being passed, that we can pull this price down, that we can get people predictable on their electricity bills,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u68	A question has also been raised on this same subject by the Left Alliance Group. Here you are, Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u69	Mr President! Electricity networks are a natural monopoly. If they are not restricted, it is the right to print money to the owner. Now that you listen to the contributions of the Coalition Party, yes, Santa is the guardian of the cabbage country. I remember very well that when the Caruna trades were made, it was made by Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen of the United States and Jan Vapaavuori of the Minister for Employment and the Economy, [Left: Oh!] Caruna and Elenia are mainly foreign-owned and are the two largest online companies. They take the profits from us and take them abroad. Caruna has also avoided paying taxes on profits through tax haven arrangements. This needs to be addressed. The electricity grid companies have unduly increased charges and generate excessive profits.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u72	Mr President! We're going to make a few, let's say, bigger moves in the law. For example, there is this extension of the security of supply requirement by eight years, i.e. those investments can be made over a longer period of time. Perhaps even more important in this respect is the fact that we allow the Energy Agency to monitor those investments, not over-investment, which last became a problem, i.e. over-investment and then price increases. What will also be significant is the calculation of the ceiling. At the moment it is the 15, and I can say that it will be significantly lower in the bill I will bring into the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u73	Mr President! In politics, hindsight and blame is an easy sport, but sometimes it is right. I must say, Congressman Arhinmäki, you were right. He returned to 2013 when a referral debate was held in this Chamber on the electricity market law. Quite a few colleagues here said at the time that this will lead to significant increases in transfer prices. We disagreed somewhat with the ministry's officials, but we were not believed at the time. The second reason was that the Energy Agency significantly increased the maximum allowable yield in 2016 when some monopoly companies took advantage of the situation — whether investment or not — they increased their tariffs, i.e. transfer prices — but not all. If we now want to remedy this situation, then we will have to address this current value of use of the electricity grid from which this revenue is calculated. So, Minister Lintilä, are you prepared to join the coalition, at least in part,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u74	Mr President! Mr Eestilä was quite right to speak. It was criticised, and, well, of course, it was easy to be in the opposition at the time to protest against it. But I remember well that, among other things, the first-period representative, Sipilä, spoke very much about how this will increase prices. But those solutions, which I have just outlined to Mr Arhinmäki' s question, will, within a few years, drop the rate of return on these companies to a level of 4%, which is to say that we will be quite at the same level as we are at the moment in Sweden. So you can say that there are some connections we can find here. But what I consider important is that the Energy Agency has promised that they will open up their own calculation system once this law has been introduced and gone through Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u75	Mr President! It is important to keep the electricity grid in domestic hands and in ownership. Only part of the height of electricity transmission prices and their rise can be explained by making a storm-proof network. Yle studied this, and it was only 4% that was used for it, that is not all explained by it, and day-to-day power outages are pretty bad in those sparsely populated areas. There's a lot more to do. But electricity transmission prices are unreasonable. Has it been thought whether you can think in such a way that the electricity transmission price would not go beyond the cost of consumption in the electricity bill, because you might want to think about things like this? And this turf thing, this is a pretty serious place. Domestic energy sources shall be prohibited. Have you ever wondered how much it will increase electricity prices?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u76	Mr President! First of all, I want to fix that, that no one is denying peat. At least I haven't been at any table where the peat would be banned. Now to that question. This is a bit of a matter where we probably have no one to play a full role in this situation. If we think that over the last ten years we have had a roughly 50% increase in transfer prices, at the same time our energy tax has increased by 2.5 times, and I do not think there is a single party in this Chamber that has not been involved in raising the energy tax, that is to say this is the choices that we have to make in politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u77	This conversation has now expanded to peat. — Mr Östman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u78	Mr President! Yes, one of the main issues in the government has been the decision to halve the use of peat energy by 2030. This week, Minister Ohio spoke of the depopulation of peat. The Minister and Chairman of the Centre Party, Saarikko, rejected the fact that there is no ban on the use of peat. [Left: Not!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u80	Mr President! There is a clear record in the Government Programme that peat will be at least halved by 2030. But, after all, this turf has been made a very big image issue, and it seems that even if we do not do anything, we will be in lower chapters — or higher ones, however you want it to be — in the middle of this decade than the record of the government programme. And this is about the fact that, in a certain way, this debate has made peat an image issue, and at the moment different companies and local authorities, especially heating plants, have gone to search for other solutions, and this is predictable. But under no circumstances will the peat be banned; it will continue to be. I see a great deal of potential for peat: everything related to peat — yes, I want to eat Finnish salad in winter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u83	And now, as the debate has expanded to peat, electricity market law and electricity transmission prices, those who wish to speak on this whole can take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u84	President! Peat production employs 2,800 people in Finland, and the value of peat production wages and social insurance contributions is nearly half a billion per year, given the indirect employment effects of peat production. Since coal is abandoned and natural gas is not a economically competitive source of energy, biomass will replace peat’s energy use. But I ask the government: is this economically viable?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u85	Mr President! I come from the peat area myself, I have many friends who make a living from peat production and industry, but we have a clear policy here, and we also have a policy that no material wood should be burned, but this is definitely the problem at the moment: what can we do to prevent it? On the other hand, there is also one that we should have... For us, the first thinnings have definitely been too small at the moment. We should have — but I recognise it, it is likely to raise prices. And then what does our forest industry say about if the stumpage prices go up this way? So, yes, there is a certain way there's a rockboard here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u86	Mr President! After all, we are now witnessing a tremendous increase in wind power, and it will also increase the speed of power fluctuations more than is sufficient to control other forms of production. It is about the problems of production, not the network. In fact, the so-called demand response market is emerging in Finland. The problem is that these costs are not for those who cause the problem, i.e. wind turbines, but for the main network. The correct payer would be wind and solar producers, which would also include these costs in the price of the energy to be competitive and would not be burdening the already high transmission prices. Minister Lintilä, what measures are you going to take to ensure that the costs of the demand response market are borne by the operators in the electricity network responsible for this need for adjustment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u87	Mr President! Of course, the main net is the one we, as a state, bear the responsibility for, and it will be liked. What moves take place will then always come from the bag of the investing company. But we must remember one thing all the time: we are talking about low carbon, carbon-neutral Finland and so on. This means that Finland will be electrified. Finland will be electrified, we will go even more on electricity terms, and we must keep this basic palette in order. Otherwise we will not meet the objectives that have been set for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u88	Mr President! It is important that the energy costs and palettes of Finns are discussed here in greater detail, and I would like to keep to the facts as well in that peat, for example, does not make any difference to the price of electricity, it is completely marginal in electricity production. With regard to district heat production, it is very important to proceed with a non-burning solution. In fact, the energy industry itself predicts that in 15 years' time, half of heat production will have gone to district heat, waste heat and so on. But as far as electricity transmission networks are concerned, if somewhere in Finland there was a need for socialism in that respect,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u91	Mr President! As the chairman of the group, Mr Mykkänen, well knows, Parliament will legislate. I'm gonna bring the show to this house, and it's gonna be a government show. It then goes to the committee. If it sees the need for changes that are justified, then I am ready for them,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u94	Irade the Talman! When peat and coal are reduced, it should not be thought that they are replaced by other than domestic fuel. Now that the industry tax is being transferred to the EU minimum, it already opens up a lot of new opportunities. When the data centers are built and connected to the district heating network, it heats the homes of hundreds of thousands of inhabitants. Kirkkonummi is planning a data center that heats the homes of tens of thousands of single-family residents. These changes will require some further legislative changes for these heat pumps, for the data centre. It should also be considered whether electrical resistance could also be transferred to this lower tax category in order to achieve maximum flexibility in this system. What is the timetable for these legislative changes to come to this Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u95	Mr President! On these specific issues, we still have to train with the directives, because the directive regulating this issue does not know these heat pumps, but the objective of the Ministry of Finance is that we can return to this in the course of next year. The need is obvious: it is certainly worth trying in various ways to encourage and encourage solutions where all the waste heat that this is all about would be made available and whether it is now, 5 megawatt-hour data centres will be involved in this exploitation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u96	Mr President! Here the group says that the cost of everyday life should not be increased, but in its alternative budget it proposed an increase of EUR 150 million in the taxes on heating fuels.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u99	Mr President! One of the key elements of that bill is that we are actually going to collect more tools for the Energy Agency to control and influence prices. And, as I said, the Energy Agency has promised that they will open their own calculation model when this law has come from Parliament — that is, at that point they will have a place to react. After all, they have a long period of time, it is a four-year period, which means that at that point we will then see a change in the Energy Agency's overall picture.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u100	And the author of the original question, Mr Vestman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u101	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Arhinmäki for the support you have given to this motion for a delegation in order to cut the profits of the monopoly. It's the only way to control the transfer prices. It is our common duty to find the effective means to finally correct the failed control of electricity transmission prices. We have put forward concrete measures to cut the profits of network companies by hundreds of millions of euros. Our presentation is supported by expert professors. We have made our presentation in order to help tight Finns and offer it to the government. We are prepared to support the government if it brings a similar proposal to Parliament. Cosmetic changes to the law are no longer enough in this situation. Dear government, we have the means, do you have the will? Could a thorough correction of electricity transmission prices really be something that will be put in place jointly here in Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u102	Mr President! Here, by force, the representative shows that there is a huge difference between the draft of the Convention and the proposal of this future government. It's not gonna be that dramatic. The representative said that you have put forward concrete measures. In general, a government proposal is a rather concrete way. And, as I said, the measures it will be taking will be that, over the next few years, the rate of return for these companies will be around 4% and will have a tangible impact.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u103	Let's move on to the next question. — Mr Harkimo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u104	Your Honor! During the pandemic, the investments of enterprises have decreased in Finland and, according to it, the creation of new jobs. In the future, however, we need these investments and jobs. Prime Minister, you have spoken of a confrontation between entrepreneurs. This is why entrepreneurs wonder if they have the courage to invest in Finland. Last week I spoke to a member of the board of directors of a large company, and that is why they are considering whether to venture to invest in Finland or whether to go to Central Europe. What are you going to do, Prime Minister, to restore confidence in companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u105	Mr President! I fully agree that Finland needs investment and we need new activities in Finland, whether they are industrial or other. In fact, just yesterday, together with business and business representatives, we have held a broad forum on how to use this EU recovery tool and the opportunities it brings to Finland in order to boost investment in this country. In addition to me, Minister of Finance Vanhanen, Minister Saarikko, Minister Lintilä and Minister Skinner were present, and together with business and business, we are now looking for precisely the kind of destinations and directions we can use to reform the Finnish business structure and import new investments into this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u106	There is still time for one reply to this. — Mr Harkimo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u107	Mr President! However, companies are insecure today, and your speech and confrontation create it more. I would like the Prime Minister to make a statement that will remove these contradictions in order to maintain the confidence of companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u108	Mr President! I believe that all of us in this Chamber together understand that the issue that is most uncertain at the moment is, of course, a global pandemic, this corona situation in which we are in the middle. This creates great uncertainty for businesses, families, people, workers, all of us. This situation is extremely difficult and, in the midst of this situation, we have tried to do everything in our power to enable Finnish companies to survive, manage and continue to employ in the future. We have been very supportive of companies so that together we can overcome this crisis. I have also called for social responsibility and responsibility from all actors in society. We need moderation and responsibility in this time. The only way we're gonna get out of this crisis is together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u109	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Constitutional Committee, to which other specialised committees may deliver an opinion no later than 1.3.2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u110	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I am pleased and honoured to present to you the report of the Parliamentary Ombudsman for 2019. This is a solemn report in the sense that the reporting year was 100 ombudsman institutions. year of operation. As usual, at the beginning of the report, the Ombudsman and the Assistant Ombudsman have spoken on a subject of their own choice. In my own speech, I will look at the development of a 100-year-old institution of the Ombudsman: How did the formal-legal law enforcement officer develop into a fundamental right-centered administrator of the authorities? What expectations have Parliament and Parliament had regarding the Ombudsman's activities? How has the Ombudsman appeared in the media during these 100 years? Mark V. Kari, Dr. Jukka Lindstedt and the legal editor Susanna Reinboth will answer these questions and place the Ombudsman's activities in a social, political and journalistic context at each time. The Ombudsman’s institution almost failed to set up. In the Government's proposal to Parliament in 1918, the monarchic form of government was the Ombudsman's Code, but it did not appear in the Government's proposal of 1919 as a republican form of government. However, the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee added a form of government to the proposal for a code of conduct on the Ombudsman, which was adopted by Parliament. The early days of the Ombudsman’s activities were difficult. In the early days a number of demands were made to abolish the institution of the Ombudsman. These demands were made by the first ombudsman himself, several Members of Parliament, several newspapers, the Chancellor of Justice, and eventually proposed in the government proposal in 1932. Fortunately, the Constitutional Committee did not accept the proposal and Parliament rejected the government's proposal. Why these difficulties? The underlying reason was that, at the time of the establishment of the Ombudsman’s institution, there was already another supreme judicial officer in Finland, the Chancellor of Justice of the Government, whose activities were already old and well established at the time. In the early days, therefore, complaints and work were simply not enough for the Ombudsman. However, over the years the Ombudsman’s institution has established its place. This is already apparent from the facts. In 1920, when the Ombudsman received 39 complaints, a record number of 6267 came in the reporting year, which is about three times the number of complaints received by the Chancellor of Justice. This is noteworthy in view of the difficulties of the early days and the reason for them. In my speech, I will not go any further into the development of the content of the action during the various periods of time. The articles in the Festive Book have discussed it thoroughly. I'm just gonna bring up one thing. Complaints and other cases dealt with by the Ombudsman were very strongly focused on prisoners and courts from the early years of operations. Even in the 1970s, the majority of cases concerned either prisoners or courts. In the early years of the operation, prison affairs were important and politically sensitive in that Finland was first a country of civil war and then a country of political prisoners during world wars. Prisoners were even more concerned about the Ombudsman's work because the law on the division of duties between the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman, which came into force in 1933, was primarily addressed to the Ombudsman. In hindsight, it seems that the emphasis on prison matters has laid the foundations for the subsequent development of the institution of the Ombudsman. Since then, the role of the Ombudsman has been focused precisely on the monitoring of the rights and treatment of all people in institutions and of all vulnerable persons. This development has culminated in the specific tasks of the Ombudsman based on UN conventions. The second concerns the control of all places where persons who have lost their liberty can be held. These persons may include not only prisoners but also children, the elderly, disabled persons and psychiatric patients, for example. The second task of the Ombudsman, based on the UN Convention, is to monitor and promote the rights of all persons with disabilities, together with the Centre for Human Rights. It is the establishment of a human rights centre within the Ombudsman's Office that contributes to this development. The most important of these reforms is the development of the division of duties between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. If implemented, it would further strengthen the role of the Ombudsman, in particular as guardian and promoter of the rights and treatment of vulnerable people. The reform would also strengthen the role of the Chancellor of Justice in the current and some new special tasks. According to the Government’s legislative plan, this division of labour will soon become a Government proposal to Parliament. In the future, there may also be threats to the Ombudsman’s institution. For example, tasks closely affecting the individual’s legal position may fall outside the mandate of the Ombudsman, or may lead to reforms or actions that jeopardise the Ombudsman’s independence. Such threats can arise both from the European Union and from the national side. There are some examples of such threats both from us and elsewhere. And as the number of cases continues to increase, we must also ensure that the Ombudsman's resources are sufficient. The Ombudsman performs his duties of trust from the Supreme Government, the Parliament. The creation, survival and development of the institution require the support, trust and foresight of Parliament and its Constitutional Committee. An institution based largely on the examination of complaints also needs the confidence of citizens, otherwise there will be no complaints. And when the Ombudsman's views are not legally binding, the effectiveness of the solutions ultimately also requires the confidence of the authorities in the Ombudsman's activities. I would like to thank all those who supported the institution of the Ombudsman for the work that has been done over the past 100 years to build on the trust that the institution can rely on today. Ms Sakslin, Assistant Ombudsman, will address the internationalisation of the institution of the Ombudsman. Over the past 100 years, the Ombudsman has grown into a strong institution that builds our understanding of legality, creates the conditions for a functioning democracy and a strong rule of law, and promotes the implementation of fundamental rights and human rights. On the other hand, the Ombudsman institution also needs a strong rule of law to support itself. The special features of the Finnish constitutional system include the strong role of the Ombudsman, which is supported by the constitutional culture. Parliament and Parliament have traditionally respected the integrity and independence of the institution of the Ombudsman. In 2019, the Ombudsman's report was sent for the first time not only to the Constitutional Committee but also to other specialised committees for a possible opinion. This procedure provides an opportunity to deepen interaction and an immediate debate between Parliament and the Ombudsman. It thus promotes parliamentary participation in the assessment of Finland’s fundamental and human rights situation. This is positive both in terms of the implementation of fundamental and human rights and in terms of the institutional support given by Parliament to the Ombudsman. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that the Ombudsman is a parliamentary institution whose constitutional function is to monitor all public administration on behalf of Parliament. According to the committee, the fact that the constitutional review of the legality and control of the activities of the Supreme Judicial Officers is the responsibility of the Parliament and its Constitutional Committee underlines the independence of the Supreme Legal Officers, in particular with regard to the supervisory authorities. There are currently over 140 ombudsmen institutions in the world. Many of them have been subject to threats and attacks in recent years. Several international protection and control mechanisms have been created to safeguard national institutions. These include the Paris principles adopted by the General Assembly in 1993 and several subsequent resolutions, the 25 principles guiding the establishment and functioning of ombudsman institutions adopted by the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe in 2019 and the recommendation adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in 2019. Some of these international principles and recommendations also have different monitoring mechanisms. The main focus of this monitoring is not only the implementation of human rights but, in particular, the independent and independent role of the national ombudsman institution, adequate funding and efficiency in the promotion and protection of human rights. The most significant and advanced monitoring structure is included in the implementation of the UN Paris principles. The Ombudsman has already been evaluated twice on the basis of UN principles in Paris as part of the Finnish National Institute for Human Rights. The recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe includes a review of the implementation of its principles after five years. In addition, the High Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe will monitor the independence of ombudsmen and the adequacy of financial resources. In the past, regular international assessments have been carried out on the content and conditions of the Ombudsman’s activities. In particular, in the context of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the monitoring of the Convention against Torture, attention will also be paid to the effectiveness and independence of national controls. In the future, the work of the Parliamentary Ombudsman will be increasingly subject to international evaluation. On the one hand, the evaluation focuses on the institutional framework of the Ombudsman and, on the other, on the content and effectiveness of the monitoring of human rights by the Ombudsman. It is already apparent that intensified international interaction has changed both the Ombudsman's activities and the Ombudsman as an institution, and it also affects the reform of the Finnish rule of law, remains strong and safeguards fundamental rights for everyone. In his speech, Assistant Ombudsman Pasi Hölönen discusses the rights of the child in basic education and how good administration safeguards fundamental and human rights also in basic education. The solutions of the law enforcement agencies have become increasingly important in this vast area, which is not subject to any regular external supervision. The supervision is only carried out by the Regional State Administrative Agencies and the Supreme Legal Officers through the handling of complaints. Mr Kölönen points out that basic and human rights, in particular the rights of the child, are at the root of the action. Basic and human rights also belong to children themselves. Children should be treated as individuals. Children's involvement and consultation should always be ensured in an appropriate way, in particular when decisions are taken on children in schools. Cooperation between the Ombudsman and the Human Rights Centre has been particularly concrete in the education sector. As a result of the active work of the Centre for Human Rights, the Ombudsman’s Office has also been involved in a project entitled ‘Fundamental and Human Rights in Education’. In the project, the guidelines of the Ombudsman’s legality control solutions have been used as teaching material during the training days of the head of education services. The Ombudsman's Office is also involved in a project of the Faculty of Education of the University of Helsinki, which developed e-learning material for the use of the teaching service, which contains examples of practical situations, reflection tasks and the Ombudsman's positions that challenge fundamental and human rights, [The President knocks ] The cases dealt with in the Ombudsman’s judicial control typically concern shortcomings in the administrative procedure, the right to equal training, decisions of special support, religious elements at school and questions about a safe study environment. There are also occasional difficulties with regard to the disciplinary procedure and the decision-making process of pupils. The theme of basic education free of charge was highlighted during the reporting year. In this context, Deputy Ombudsman Hölönen refers to the resourceisation of student care and the problems of equal access to student care services. Mr President! Following these speeches, the report provides an overview of the activities of the Ombudsman’s institution in 2019. During the reporting year, we received nearly 6,300 complaints. This is the highest number ever and nearly 700 more complaints than in the previous year. It should be noted that again this year there will be a record number of complaints, possibly up to 1000 more than last year. This is mainly due to the coronavirus, but not entirely. Despite the large number of complaints, we were able to resolve complaints during the reporting year so that no complaints were pending at the end of the year. This is the seventh time in a row that this objective has been achieved. However, it must be noted that the staff of the Office have worked at the extremes of their ability to cope. Nearly 100 initiatives were taken and more than 60 were resolved. Of all complaints and own initiatives, 920, or around 15%, led to the Ombudsman’s actions. This percentage of measures is very high in international comparisons. Inspections were carried out at 110 sites in the reporting year, almost half of which were unannounced, i.e. so-called surprise inspections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u111	Thank you, Mr Jääskeläinen. — I will open the debate, and then Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u112	Mr President! Congratulations to the 100-year-old institution of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman has always done important work and its role has not been reduced at all. I have used to read this Ombudsman's report thoroughly, and that is what I intend to do this time, but now I have just been browsing the report. I already noticed that there are very important findings here, for example, on the implementation of the rights of people with disabilities and older people, of which I was thinking of saying a few things in this referral debate. Finland has ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Non-discrimination, accessibility and accessibility are key principles of the agreement. However, the unfortunate fact remains that people with disabilities are not in an equal position with others, and this is reflected in many areas of life. I am pleased that the Ombudsman's report has now clearly stated the broad definition of the CRPD. Indeed, I am constantly confronted with the narrow definition of disability in general. The agreement defines as disabled persons those with long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory disabilities which, in interaction with various obstacles, can prevent their full and effective participation in society on an equal footing with others. For example, memory-disordered and psychiatric patients are covered by this Agreement. I am very pleased that the Ombudsman has now clearly stated this, because very often I even hear in the social services the two groups are excluded from disability services. It is important for the disability service law currently under preparation to ensure from the outset that the law does not exclude any group of people with disabilities, as I believe it would be contrary to the UN CRPD. The situation and treatment of the elderly are also highlighted in this report year after year. It is inconceivable that the care of the elderly continues to be inadequate in terms of food, hygiene, changing diapers, rehabilitation and outdoor activities, i.e. shortcomings in the implementation of basic needs. Weaknesses have also been observed in the frequency of medical visits, medical treatment and dental care, including the basics. A civilised society should have zero tolerance for inhumane treatment. According to the Ombudsman, the shortcomings are often due to insufficient staff numbers or lack of management. I would add to this the skills and skills gaps. It is too often thought that people can treat people with memory disorders, for example, but it takes a lot of skills and skills to identify the underlying cause of a challenging memory-disordered behavior. There may be fear, pain, acute inflammatory disease or, for example, inappropriate behaviour of the nurse behind aggressiveness or anxiety. Too often this visible symptom is treated with sedatives or other restrictive measures. These measures may turn a person with memory disorders into a bed patient for no reason. I would really like more attention to be paid to the professional skills of the carers. The lack of professional skills often also results from a lack of self-determination. Thirdly, I would like to draw attention to the inadequacy of home care services. Home care customers often experience fear and insecurity. They can't get out, and they don't get services. They don't have the chance to go shopping or do things that matter to themselves. Many elderly people are like prisoners in their own homes. Even now there are thousands of elderly people in Finland who would be safer and more humane to live in nursing homes, for example, than to spend 23 hours a day alone in their own home, perhaps three or four times a day on a 15-minute peek. This is not a problem for nurses, it is a problem caused by a strict standard shift plan. If you're in a place five minutes longer, you're gonna have to take five minutes away from somewhere else. The schedules are so strict that I get a message from home care workers that they even have to eat their lunch on the way to the next place. In the afternoon we get really busy and we don't have much time to take into account our customers' needs anymore. It is precisely because working conditions are inhumane and nurses are forced to work contrary to their professional ethical principles that there is a growing shortage of workers in home care. Sooner or later, many nurses say that they do not want to work like this. Mr President! Here are just a few comments on the report on the basis of its rapid browsing, but I will once again look at this comprehensive book in depth. And thank you again for having it here at our hearing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u113	Mr President! Thank you for the Ombudsman's 100th anniversary report, which gives us a great deal of room for legislative work. The fundamental values of the Ombudsman’s office are justice, responsibility and proximity to people. I am raising one theme in connection with our education system: student and student care. The field of education is wide and diverse. Its activities have significant individual and collective implications for the long-term future. Learning, school support and student care form a solid whole at school. The Basic Education Act is based on a model of three-step support, from which only the top step, i.e. special support, as well as interpretation and assistance services, must be subject to an administrative decision that is admissible under the law. The Government Programme contains a record of the effectiveness of the three-step support. It's necessary. Student care is a subjective right that belongs to a child, but the closer ways in which it is implemented are left to the discretion of the education provider. There are varying practices in the way in which education providers organise student care and there is no binding regulation on the number of staff in student care. Thank you to the government for preparing for this kind of commitment. Student care services are not attainable on an equal basis throughout the country. This is another flaw that this activity report highlights. On average, the school psychologist has almost 1,000 pupils. Only 20% of the working time of school psychologists is allocated to community student care, which should be the primary form of student care. This is why there are shortcomings in the organisation and resource allocation of student care every year. According to the Activity Report, recruitment of school psychologists is challenging and difficult for the whole kingdom. The workload of school curators is also seen as too high. The time for particularly tight professionals seems to be in community student care. Mr President! It's a student's right. It's in the best interest of the child. The lack of support systems has far-reaching, human and social implications. School experiences, both good and bad, go with many for the rest of their lives. Comprehensive school age and the subsequent joint phase are critical for exclusion and its development. When I read these comments from the Ombudsman's report, I am delighted that it is in these areas that there are more places to study for higher education, and the University of Oulu, for example, received psychological training, which helps northern Finland, and Kajaani University of Applied Sciences received socio-nomic training, which means that there are more curators in that area. New starting points should therefore be targeted at sectors with a clear shortage of talent. Mr President! I congratulate the 100-year-old Ombudsman's office, which has grown from an ugly duckling to a proud swan, as described here in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u114	Mr President! Now we are dealing with the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report, which mainly concerns last year, 2019. The Parliamentary Ombudsman is a very important issue, the fact that it exists. People will contact it when nothing else helps: it has been felt that there has been mistreatment, unjust decisions. Above all, that independence is an extremely important issue. We just heard that there were up to 6,300 complaints last year, and that is a great deal — that is, there are so many of them. Among other things, it has been seen that housekeeping is really busy, far too busy. Of course, the ability of the Parliamentary Ombudsman to act requires money and resources to be provided. And Parliament must ensure that there is sufficient resources and money. The Parliamentary Ombudsman has been important in the past — as we heard from history that it has been important in the past — and it is important now, but it will be important in the future. It is absolutely essential that more attention be paid to the fact that resources and money are put there. It is fortunate that we have a Parliamentary Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u115	Mr President! Once again, here is an excellent report and a package of tough issues, a very interesting one. Unfortunately, however, this cannot be fully referred to here, so I will focus on one point: housing for the mentally disabled. With regard to these verification visits, this report states very well that ‘the Ombudsman has attached serious attention both to the private and to the public service provider,inasmuch as there is sufficient staffing’. This is something that really is a problem in our country and which unfortunately has not been put right, and it sometimes seems to me that we are going in a worse direction in this regard. To give a personal example: when my own child was searched for a housing unit, there was, then, a place like this with three separate cells that are not connected in any way, and there was one person for the night in a place like this, which is therefore very difficult for people with disabilities who cannot help themselves. This reflects the situation in which we are, namely the lack of sufficient resources. In this way, it is not possible to secure safe, good housing for people who depend entirely on one another. I think it is very important that these are monitored and that attention is paid to this issue, so that we, here in Parliament and in the municipalities, will also be able to take this issue into account in the decision-making process. After all, Finland has ratified this UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2016, but it does not in itself do better, but it must be reflected there in decision-making, visible in legislation, visible in resources. There is, among other things, the point that a disabled person has the right to decide where and with whom he lives, but in practice that does not happen at the moment. Municipalities give the place where you can assess whether you want to go, but the customer can’t choose that ‘you want to live there or you want to live there’ and the seonisopoint. Then: I do not know whether the Ombudsman will be able to comment on this, but I did not find in this report this time any issues of limitation, complaints or problems with regard to the treatment of people with mental disabilities. Of course, it is a good thing if they have gone away, but I would of course like to see this taken into account in the future. It is also a very topical matter because of this corona pandemic. If the Ombudsman has time to reply, can you answer, do you remember whether this matter has now been corrected in some way, even though there are still no legislative changes to the customer law in this matter? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u116	Ärade talman, Mr President! I too would like to congratulate the Ombudsman on his good work and, of course, all his predecessors and his team for his good and important work, and of course it is up to us to ensure that he is given both the necessary resources and the opportunity to act independently without threats or targets, or even when he criticises us, for example, Parliament or the government or decisions. In my opinion, very good speeches have already been made on this point by my fellow Members, and I am sure I will be able to join them all very well. I take great concern — and I think it is very important — that we raise issues here, too, which are directly related to resources, knowing that they always cause us particular problems, but they are absolutely essential, especially in terms of safeguarding the basic needs of vulnerable or vulnerable people, or, for example, children, when it comes to this student care and how assistant Ombudsman Hölönen points out that there is one school psychologist per 985 pupils and that 20% in fact only does this general student health, which may not quite be the purpose. I would also like to highlight these challenges and problems, and I think it is very important that examples are raised in this book: there are, of course, a wide range of issues here, and it is certainly difficult to assess these in some hierarchical way, but I think it is valuable that the Ombudsman raises ten fundamental and human rights problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u117	Mr President! Good Ombudsman and good colleagues and others present at the hearing and following up! I would like to congratulate the 100-year-old ombudsman — or the ombudsman's office. The Ombudsman is so youthful that he does not yet take these congratulations alone, but also his predecessor. The long, magnificent activity has been in the back and it has been a great workload this year. We must also thank the Ombudsman's office in particular for this. We have also heard from the public how the entire office is working a very long day. After all, the Ombudsman has been flooded with a record number of new complaints during the centenary year. I looked at the situation here: I think there were more than 700 complaints by August about these exceptional circumstances alone. And now, Mr President, exceptionally, although the report by the Ombudsman for 2019 is under discussion, I wanted to speak partly on this year. I shall give my reasons for this in the future. Of these over 700 complaints, quite a few concern e.g. distance school, education about 200, health care about 80, social welfare about 100 and the highest government bodies about 70, including information from the Sanna Marin government. But why I wanted to raise this debate in the middle of this year — and in fact, Mr Pekonen, the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, also visited the Chamber, and a moment ago the Minister for Health, Mr Kiuru, was here — my concern that quite a few of these complaints can be answered with a one-year delay or during the year of its complaint is that we actually have situations during the interest rate that cannot be expected. That is why I would have expected that the ministers too might have been able to listen to this debate. Let me take an example of how a woman over 80 was not allowed to attend the funeral of her own marriage mate. His daughter had made a complaint about this. Mary Sakslin gave us a solution, and the solution was: it was wrong. But what do you do, the funeral was gone, once in a lifetime, never made it to the funeral of his own life partner. Maija Sakslin wrote: “In funerals, the support of the people close to her, together with mourning and memory, and thankfulness, mourning and longing is central. The possibility of attending a funeral is relevant for the protection of family life. Thus, the obligation to promote the implementation of fundamental and human rights requires that everyone's participation in the funeral be promoted." The elderly have also been kept separate during the corona crisis. Of course, it has been necessary in many situations from a health point of view, but it is a married couple who were not allowed to see each other for months, and there are many of these examples. I myself received a concerned communication where a relative mourned that he could not see his mate. The spouse was already severely memory - stricken, and he feared that after this isolation the spouse might never recognize him again. It was a rough spot for this spouse. These bans have also been brought before the Ombudsman, for example on incorrect instructions from the Ministry of the Interior, where visits were prohibited or restricted illegally. My question to the Ombudsman now in this debate is: What would be the way in which we could avoid situations of this kind, to which your solutions unfortunately come too late? I understand that this is the way your system works, but what would be the way in which we would not even have, under such exceptional circumstances, situations where a person has not been able to attend the funeral of his or her own spouse or to have to restrict meetings so severely? Can we not find a way in this society to guarantee everyone an opportunity through meeting rooms or others to also meet close ones during this prolonged corona crisis? — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u118	Mr President! This is a huge package from which many angles could be raised, and here the representatives have already made very good speeches, which I can join in with, but I would like to make just one comment on the religious celebrations in schools. In November last year, Assistant Ombudsman Pasi Hölönen's line raised a great deal of debate and commotion, and again we are about to see this Christmas season in schools, albeit very different because of this corona epidemic. This case last year was one in which: In Kouvola, the school was going to hold a Christmas party in the church and the Assistant Ombudsman gave a statement that organising a school Christmas party in the church violates students' religious freedom and equality, and the background was a complaint made by the Non-Religious People in Finland. Indeed, it is understandable to ensure that everyone has the right, in accordance with freedom of religion, to refuse religious festivals, and these celebrations, which are organised, must be one in which everyone can participate, but in this context it was particularly noteworthy that the Ombudsman felt that the church space itself would be problematic in organising a joint celebration of such a school, which would not necessarily be a religious celebration, but a joint celebration in which everyone could participate. I myself hope — and many other representatives have taken a stand — that the church’s cultural historical facilities, the church facilities, can be shared, even when it is not a matter of worship or religious celebrations, but of organising a frat party or this Christmas party. This led last year to the fact that many municipalities then even cancelled these Christmas parties, which were in the only large state in the municipality where they could organise the celebration, and especially now in the corona era we need loose spaces. In many localities, the church has practically the loosest space — where security intervals can also be held — for various parties, whether concerts or other parties. I therefore hope that the Ombudsman would now clarify precisely this possibility of using church facilities for activities other than purely religious activities. I believe that there is a need for such a policy even this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u119	Mr President! First of all, I would like to extend warm congratulations to the Ombudsman and to his working group and to his office — thank you for your work. A hundred years is a long time, and good work has been done. As I see it, when there was a comparison that an ugly duckling has become a swan, it can be said that the swan has both roots and wings, and the roots come from that very place of human rights and justice and legality, and those wings are what you have practiced in this past few years, that you have been on the edge of time and taken on new winds and have taken hold of things that now require special action. There are many other issues that could be addressed now, but I would like to draw particular attention to two. The monitoring of the rights of persons with disabilities — i.e. following these disability agreements and their implementations — was absolutely excellent that the Ombudsman's office took over precisely how this implementation and supervision of UN CRPDs in Finland as a whole will be carried out, and when it was finally implemented into Finland and the legislation in order, then, of course, it will have to be monitored. Here Mr Rantanen made an excellent speech about the fact that it is this sector, if anyone needs that control. Now that we are expanding compulsory education, people with disabilities have been completely forgotten there. It is absolutely excellent that, for example, Deputy Parliamentary Ombudsman Pölönen pointed out in his statement that disabled people have been forgotten, disabled people have not been taken into account in this extension of compulsory education. This is where we come back, but this is one example of: The Ombudsman’s office is on the edge of time and sees what is happening in this society. Well, then there's the supervision of elderly services. I am absolutely proud of the fact that last year there was an increase in funding for this year — and last year there was also an increase in funding — specifically for the control of services for the elderly. You remember that when it was a bit of a bore at the time of 2015 when a lot of things happened in old people's services, and certainly it was quite the tip of the iceberg, but we were given resources to ensure that The Parliamentary Ombudsman's office went on to carry out supervisory visits, including unexpected ones, without prior notice. And they are perfect for surprises and visits to see what is going on there. You are the helper of an ordinary person, and good luck to you in the future. I hope that, when we consider this old ombudsman, it will also be placed there in the Ombudsman's Office, because there is also jurisdiction there. We need not only those who raise these shortcomings, but also
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u120	Mr President! I was still enthusiastic about Mr Heinonen's speech and took the floor now, mainly in relation to this year's issues. In fact, during this corona crisis, people with disabilities have also been slightly forgotten here: when these risk groups were defined in the spring, these severely disabled people who are therefore in a wheelchair were really left out and often have problems in their lungs. So, of course, it caused problems in terms of services: if they are not a risk group, then they will not, of course, receive the services they necessarily need because they are not there. In this regard, it has caused a lot of problems especially for parents caring for their children because they have had to weigh whether or not to send their children to school. And now you can imagine that when it is not possible to use any kind of services either so that parents can rest, these families have really been hard on them, and in that sense it is probably good to take this issue into account during the corona period. Then I can't stop using a little talk about this old-age housing system. It is an excellent thing that we have the Ombudsman to monitor these. Much has now gone into the self-monitoring system, but I am not quite sure that this self-monitoring will work when it also combines business objectives. And now, at least in the last few weeks, there have been articles in the newspapers that, since the re-opening of these services, family members have visited these places, there has been a clear observation in the circumstances of the elderly. Of course, this system is such that, in principle, we should perhaps consider whether we currently have an optimal system for the elderly: that home care and on-call services are the main rule, and then, in a rather poor condition, we will only be able to access any kind of housing service. If I compare it with my own youth, then there was home, then there were such elderly homes, where there was centralised care available in the area, then there were nursing homes, and then the last came the health centers in the wards. It may not have been optimal either, but it was a little more staggered than it is at the moment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u121	Mr President! Korona has isolated us from other people, many have suffered loneliness. We need each other, we need meaningful gatherings and opportunities. Now we need bigger spaces so that people can meet. In sparsely populated areas, a large enough gathering space can be a church. The Assistant Ombudsman has made a legal decision last year, using legal interpretation methods, regarding the graduation of the autumn semester of schools, i.e. the Christmas celebration. The resolution school had arranged the Christmas celebration in substance as a religious opportunity, and thus contrary to the principles of the curriculum and the line adopted by the Constitutional Committee. The decision also covered the venue for the graduation ceremony. In principle, the Assistant Ombudsman considered it problematic to organise the graduation ceremony in the Evangelical Lutheran church hall. The solution prompted a wide-ranging social debate, which also covered the issue. The debate focused on areas and areas where the Ombudsman’s ruling was not concerned. The decision did not concern voluntary Christmas church visits organised by the school, which have also been organised as an unrecognized alternative. For example, in my municipality of residence in Reisjärvi, all schools meet each year in the Christmas church, alongside which an alternative program is offered according to the instruction of the Finnish National Board of Education. Many non - church members voluntarily want to join the common Christmas tradition. The Christmas church is seen as part of the year's cycle and the Finnish cultural heritage. Future generations must know the roots and history of our country. They also include the presence and influence of Christianity. Value base, language, chronology, titles and art cannot and does not need to be cleansed of the traces of Christianity. They are a common heritage and are seen around us as new religions, views and traditions come alongside the former. The decision of the Assistant Ombudsman was not a matter of worship. It was a matter of general instruction, which must be given to the student in a religious and nonsensical way. In his decision, the Assistant Ombudsman found it problematic for the school’s teaching and education activities that the place was a church building for religious services. Of course, it can be said that services can be arranged in a variety of places and buildings. The churches serve not only as church halls but also as gathering places in various situations. They are part of Finnish cultural property and the national landscape. They are fostered for a wide range of common uses. They hold concerts, celebrations and public debates. I hope that this can continue to be the case. Mr President! I do not understand that the space itself would be problematic for the school’s Christmas celebration, the content of which is the key. The church cannot, in principle, be the wrong place for a school celebration. The condition and its symbols do not mark the events in the space with religious meanings. Religions are a natural and visible part of Finnish culture and the communal process of life, the significance of which has become clearer during the isolation of the corona. Freedom of religion is an inalienable value and a fundamental human right. Everyone has the freedom to practice and not practice religion. There is such a good basis for coexistence between religions and views. Mr President! I hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be able to consider this further. This is also what the bishops of our church have hoped for.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u122	Mr President! I would also like to warmly congratulate the Ombudsman and also the entire office on the great and important 100-year journey. There have been very good and important speeches here, many of which could be raised, both from the perspective of the disabled and the elderly and so on, but I would like to say briefly, with enthusiasm, about Mr Kinnuse's excellent speech, also a few words on this problem of church space. I myself have been in primary school for over 20 years, of which the last ten years are principals, and I can say that in that twenty years the Christmas feast has been held every year — sometimes in the school hall, but also in church space for several years. Most of the reason for that church space is that it is a loose, magnificent and valuable space that accommodates grandparents, grandmothers, papas and a wider family to celebrate this wonderful Christmas moment. There is no way, Mr President, that I am able to give in to the fact that the condition itself fills the elements of a religious opportunity. It does not in any way want to apply, as it were, to the elements of all reason and humanity. I personally understand the content, when the religious message, in a way like the Christmas feast, is strongly expressed that it matters, but the building itself — although I recognize that there are symbolic elements in the churches — would not be one where such a Christmas celebration of children could not be celebrated. Unfortunately, this has meant, in the school world, uncertainty and uncertainty as to whether Christmas celebrations can be held at all, whether we can retain the national traditions that Christianity also cares if we can perform the Christmas gospel, whether we can sing the Angel Heaven song. Unfortunately, this has meant that such a national confusion about this valuable, long-term Finnish tradition is disappearing, or at least there are serious uncertainties about it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u123	Madam President! I would also like to congratulate you on my part, but also wish you strength. In general, such questions, such as those relating to religion or the school world, are those that evoke very strong feelings and feelings among citizens, and it is here that praiseworthy speeches have been made about this particular use of church or parish facilities at parties. However, we also have to take into account the fact that I believe that we have fewer people visiting churches and that the mass we have there should be made better use of. Of course, it is not up to the Ombudsman to think about how to use it, but it is necessary to clarify those guidelines, because many municipalities and cities will then interpret these solutions in their own way. And as Mr Räsänen said, the events were suddenly cancelled. We need clarity on these lines and they must be unambiguous. Certainly the National Board of Education is also trying to do them, but it is very sad to see that there are situations in which culture and history are forgotten and gone on the terms of a small minority and the majority have to move on many points. That is very unfortunate, but I understand that these interpretations try to be as precise as possible. I would like to comment on Mr Heinose, but he has already left when he was thinking out loud here that what could be able to intervene in these matters in advance of these complaints: the whole idea is based on these complaints and, on the other hand, on own initiative investigations and investigations. In other words, your office is doing a very important job and I wish you every success in that work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u124	Mr President! I can't help commenting on this conversation at the church party. We are in Finland, which has always been a Christian country. As far as I am concerned, a very large proportion of Finnish religion as such does not really play a very big role in life, but they do go to churches or church facilities at parties when they are used to going there, and at least I do not personally experience it, and I do not know anyone who feels that it has been something of a pressure or insult. It is good to remember that the values and Finnishness of our country are largely based, however, on a Christian basis, which we should not give up or withdraw from under any circumstances. And then I would like to point out to this debate that, in a way, you cannot pick raisins from buns either, because now the situation is that we have a huge number of extra days off, based on the very Christian basis. Easters, Christmases — should they also be abandoned if someone is offended that they eventually come from a Christian base of value? I find it extremely good to hear that Finnishism and our cultural heritage are also defended in this Chamber, which is very much based on this basis, whether an active member of the church or not. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u125	Madam President! Very good speeches have now been made here about the use of church facilities and Christmas parties, and I would appreciate it if the Ombudsman could further clarify the reasons for this last year's line. I would remind you that, when the law on religious freedom was discussed, the Constitutional Committee stated at the time that the committee did not intend to change practices with regard to various school traditions, such as graduations. Indeed, it is perfectly understandable that a Christmas party for all is in line with the Freedom of Religion Act and that everyone can participate in it. Of course, these Christmas services are still separate, that is, church services, which can then be refused by those who are nonreligious or who represent another religion. But this particular use of church space at a Christmas party for all or at a school graduation party, as I understand it, has been part of the school tradition in a great many places, especially in these graduations. Then, from the point of view of the MP, this position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, on the other hand, this line of the Assistant Ombudsman will appear contradictory in some way. I think it would be a good idea for clarity to follow up on this. Of course it is also a matter for Parliament and for Parliament's Constitutional Committee to intervene in this, but perhaps the Ombudsman can also comment on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u126	And on this point, I give the Ombudsman the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u127	Madam President! Thank you for these speeches and for the debate here. There were a few speeches which included questions or requests for the Ombudsman's direction. This is where Mr Rantanen asked if we had any cases of limitations on the treatment of people with mental disabilities. Now, from this interest period, I remember only one case in which we assessed whether this kind of DNR decision, i.e. not revived, was made properly. We explained it, but in that case the result was that there were no grounds for initiating an investigation. In other words, it clearly proved that its decision was not based on that person’s mental disability. Mr Räsänen then raised the issue of organising a school Christmas party in the church and referred to this resolution by Assistant Ombudsman Pasi Hölönen. Now I do not have the opportunity to judge the decisions of the Assistant Ombudsman, but when the use of church facilities was discussed, the Assistant Ombudsman is involved. Of course, this year the owl has adopted a very broad and thorough decision, which has at least partially touched on this particular use of church facilities. It was a very broad, long decision, which had all the opinions of the European Court of Human Rights and other sources of justice very precisely. Now I do not remember exactly what all the questions had been addressed, but, as I recall, this use of church facilities was at least ignored. Mr Heinonen then asked whether there were some ways to avoid these unfortunate situations which have now taken place in the care units of the elderly during the corona period. Well, as Mr Heinonen himself thought, the Ombudsman does not really have the means to do so, so the Ombudsman can hardly act in a fire department-type way. Our complaint procedure is written, and before any criticism can be made, we need to hear the subject. Of course, if checks on this kind of issues are observed and come up, there is a possibility of this kind of even more rapid interference. Madam President! I think these are the questions I was asked. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u128	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u129	Mr President! This proposal concerns the extension of the so-called 'home care experiment' until the social welfare reform enters into force. From the beginning of 2005, the current articles on home care testing were added to the Public Health Act on a fixed-term basis. The acts are currently in force until the end of this year. Temporary acts have already been extended several times. Currently, the regulations are relevant to the processing of customer and patient data. It is necessary to transpose the legislation on home care and to extend it to all municipalities. This is to be implemented as part of the social welfare reform and the related reforms of the separate social and health care laws that are coming after this main package. Issues relating to social welfare and health care personnel registers will be resolved in permanent legislation through a comprehensive reform of the legislation on social welfare and health care information management, which is intended to enter into force at the same time as the social welfare reform. At this stage, it is proposed to extend the legislation until the end of 2022. Mr President! The extension would make it possible for existing well-functioning home care systems not to be dismantled due to a lack of legislation. This law would not entail any costs or any new obligations for the municipalities. It would only be possible to maintain the status quo until the entry into force of the social security reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u130	Madam President! This pilot law is thus already in place in 2004. It has been in force since 2005, and I must say that now that this is in force until 2022, it is an experiment at least long enough. I would like to ask the Minister what experience this experiment has at the moment. This has been quite the case in a number of municipalities and, as the Minister said, the intention would then be for this to be a permanent arrangement if and when this social welfare reform comes into force. At this stage, of course, it is appropriate to hope that we will no longer have to continue this experiment, which will lead to more than 20 years of pilot law, but will finally have permanent legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u131	Minister Kiuru, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u132	Mr President! So home care means combining social care, home care and home health care care as a single activity. Since social care customer documents are subject to the legislation on social welfare customer registers and patient medical records are subject to the legislation on patient registers and, therefore, since these registers are still separate, it has been necessary to provide for the right of home care and health care staff to combine and use this information, which has now been the steak. Thus, around 30 municipalities were admitted to the experiment in 2005 and decisions have been taken since then on the acceptance of municipalities and joint municipal boards from 2019 to 2020. These include the City of Vantaa, Kerava, the Central Uusimaa Joint Municipal Authority for Social Welfare, and these experiences have been good, and the current home care system, this experiment, does not want to be dismantled. So this isn't about the big crowd, but it has.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u133	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u134	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the regulation on travel expenses for health insurance. First of all, it is proposed that after this year the Social Insurance Institution should continue to compensate for trips made to the Student Health Care Foundation's FSHS offices in connection with the treatment of illness. The amendment relates to a change in the law adopted previously in Parliament, according to which compensation paid by the Social Insurance Institution to the FSHS is governed by the Law on the Student Health of University Students of 1.1.2021. The aim of this proposal on travel expenses is to ensure access for university students to the services of the FSHS. Secondly, the proposal proposes to compensate for travel costs incurred in the provision of care by means of a service voucher instead of the actual place of care to the nearest place of care. The nearest place of treatment would be the place where the insured person can obtain his or her health without endangering the necessary research and treatment provided for in the Health Insurance Act. The aim of the proposal is to restore the practice of reimbursement of visits to care organised by the service voucher as it was at the end of last year until the legal interpretation at the time of the appeal. The proposal also proposes to extend the temporary regulation on the maximum price of taxis to be reimbursed from health insurance until the end of 2024. Temporary provisions would make it possible for a Government regulation to set maximum prices for the so-called Kela taxis. The continuation of these provisions would potentially have a price-control effect on the future acquisition by the Social Insurance Institution of taxi rides. The maximum price would be the upper limit of the Finnish Social Insurance Institution's competitions. Sanna Marin's Government Programme includes a record of the start of the preparatory work for the winding up of multi-channel funding. This preparatory action is intended to address the future method of organising and financing journeys to be reimbursed for sickness insurance, on the basis of which the need to continue with the current maximum fixed-term price regulation can still be assessed as fixed-term.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u135	Madam President! When the Minister raised the issue of the dismantling of this multi-channel funding, I would now like to ask whether it is to be expected that, during this parliamentary term, we will actually have a proposal for Parliament to be able to dismantle this multi-channel funding, if we are also thinking of these different ceilings. After all, this proposal now talks about travel allowances for health care, and the long-term objective has been to combine these different ceilings, which would then bring relief to many who face different costs of health care. In this context, I would like to thank the Minister for being here for presenting this proposal to the rather empty Chamber — for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u136	Minister Bakonen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u137	Mr President! Mr Räsänen asked about the dismantling of multi-channel funding and its possible progress during this parliamentary term. It is indeed the intention that multi-channel funding should be examined during this parliamentary term, and we now have a work started at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to gather previous reports on multi-channel funding. We know that there has been a lot of clarifications and clarifications over several parliamentary periods, and now we are going through these earlier reports in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and we will certainly return to this multi-channel funding next spring. But here, of course, social and health reform must already be taken into account and progress made, so that there is also a financial basis for these services in the future before they are dismantled.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u138	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u139	Madam President! This Government proposal proposes to carry out a number of corrections that have been identified in the implementation of the new Act on Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, which entered into force from the beginning of 2016. Current legislation currently leads to an inappropriate outcome. First of all, in the case of compulsory insurance under the legislation referred to above, compensation for loss of earnings would in future be distributed between the farmer and the employer who paid him sickness benefit in a situation where the farmer is unable to work as a result of the compensated accident, both in his entrepreneurial work and in his/her co-employment work. As a result of the proposed change, it could no longer be as it is at the moment that the farmer will not receive any compensation in respect of the entrepreneurial activity, when it leaves nothing to be paid after the period of sickness paid to the employer. The second key change concerns the invalidity pension granted retrospectively to an agricultural entrepreneur under the Employment Pensions Act and its impact on an accident or occupational disease that has already been replaced. In the future, the retroactive disability pension and the subsequent checks on the farmers' MYEL insurance and the corresponding earnings would not affect retroactively the compensation for loss of earnings for the damage already compensated. At present, the regulation will lead to the correction and recovery of decisions already taken. Both changes also apply to grant recipients, but there are so few of them insured that, in practice, farmers are particularly affected. The State will contribute to the cost of insurance cover, but the changes proposed have not been estimated to have any significant economic impact on the state. The laws are proposed for entry into force on 1 January 2021. According to the main rule established in the insurance legislation, the changes would relate to damage caused when the law was in force.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u140	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u141	Mr President! In the government proposal in question, it is proposed to include in five paragraphs of the law a reference to a police officer who is a member of the police force. In the background of the legislative package on civil intelligence that entered into force on 1 June 2019, the powers of preliminary investigation and coercive powers of the protection police were removed. However, the protection police retained the powers of prevention and detection of crime, including the secret means of obtaining information in Chapter 5 of the Police Act. In this case, Chapter 5 of the Police Act systematically added the term ‘Police Officer on the Police Officer’ to the ‘Police Officer on several occasions’. However, the addition was not made in five paragraphs of the law. Since the entry into force of civil intelligence legislation in June 19, there have been no police officers entitled to arrest. Mr President! I note that no new powers will be presented to the police. The draft law would ensure the usability of existing procedures relating to police powers and thus the performance of official duties. The protection police cannot take autonomous measures within the meaning of the bill, unlike police units with police officers who are entitled to arrest them. As an example, I can mention the CID. With regard to the three points of law proposed to be amended, it would be possible for the officers of the protection police to have a court order or authorisation to use the means in question. These provisions relate to technical listening, installation of a technical surveillance device, method or software and non-notification of the use of secret data acquisition. It can also be noted that technical monitoring, which is also technical listening, and procedures relating to the power of installment are relevant to privacy. However, the power of decision shall lie with the court, which shall independently consider the matter, and the protection police shall not be given jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of the court is part of the legal protection system for the purposes of Article 10 of the Constitution. This is important because technical listening would target the person who lost his freedom as a result of the crime and the installation of equipment and software would target the dwelling. A derogation from the notification requirement would ensure ongoing data mining, ensure state security or protect spirit and health. The protection of the interests of the latter by the protection police is a problem because the use of a secret means of intelligence must be notified to the object of the data acquisition at the time specified in the provision, and the officer of the officers cannot at present require the Court of Justice to deviate from the obligation to notify. The obligation to inspect the records and documents of the bill can be assessed as being relevant to the subject's legal protection. The obligation to inspect is linked to the lawful use of the secret data acquisition method and to compliance with the prohibition on listening and viewing. The bill would also allow the police officer in the protection police to obtain from the telecommunications company the information necessary for the implementation of technical monitoring. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, the prevention and detection of serious crimes protects fundamental and human rights. The protection of these rights can also be considered for the purpose of the efficiency requirements in the fight against serious crimes. The general and specific conditions for the use of secret information are laid down in Chapter 5 of the Police Act. The means can be used to detect crimes related to terrorism or espionage, among other things. Reforms of the police law have previously been dealt with in the Constitutional Committee, most recently in the context of civil intelligence legislation. The procedures set out in the bill and the related powers are already in place in other police units. The police will not be given new powers, but will allow a police officer in charge of the protection police to actually carry out his duties. A certain position is required of the person carrying out the measures, i.e. to be a member of the supervisory board. I believe that the amendments are also in line with fundamental rights regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u142	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-22-ps-136.u143	Madam President! I present the activity report of the OSCE delegation to Finland. Last year, when covid-19 did not yet interfere with the activities of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, all meetings and election observation were held in accordance with normal practice. The plenary session will normally take place in July and there will also be a winter session in February and a September session in October. This year's session of the General Assembly was not held — as early as February, a winter session was held in Vienna, but since then all meetings have been held virtually. This has led to some difficulties in organising operations, not least from the point of view of different choices and rules. The holding has had a wide range of webinars on the same subjects which will also be discussed during the plenary session. Mr President! However, I will now return to last year and at the end of this year I will be able to shed light on the situation and briefly go through the observation of the elections from a practical point of view in Belarus and Uzbekistan. It is the task of the General Assembly to discuss and take a position on disputes in the OSCE area and on compliance with Member States' obligations. During the reporting year, the main event of the year, the General Assembly, was held in Luxembourg. The country holding the presidency was Slovakia, whose Foreign Minister, Mr Lajčák, was very active and whose views in practice also reflected the views of the General Assembly. A delegation elected during the previous parliamentary term was still present at the session of the General Assembly in February 2019. The current delegation was elected after the parliamentary elections last year. As far as the parliamentary elections are concerned, the ODIHR, which is the OSCE's office for democratic institutions and human rights, did not recommend that election observers be sent to Finland. However, ODIHR experts Badalyan and Misev met representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Administrative Court, the National Audit Office and parties, the media and NGOs. In the same month, the delegation also met the President of the Republic, Sauli Niinistö. In March, Armenia's Prime Minister, Pashinja, and Azerbaijan's President, Aliyev, met for the first time. Since then, the situation has been escalated into military action. There is a Minsk group in the OSCE, chaired by France, the United States and Russia, who have long tried to reach an agreement. In the light of new information, it appears that the OSCE will continue to become the main forum in this conflict. Earlier in January, the then chairman and vice-chairman of the delegation participated in a joint meeting of the OSCE missions in the Nordic and Baltic countries. The purpose of this meeting in Warsaw was to reform the rules on election observation. In the reform of the rules, Finland drew attention to the fact that a person participating in the election observation exercise should sign a commitment to refrain from commenting on the situation in the country holding the elections 6 months before the elections. Everyone understands that the situation was very awkward and, in some respects, quite impossible for Members of Parliament who were involved in foreign policy and elected representatives. The request was considered to be an infringement of the freedom of expression and expression of the representatives. The Nordic countries and the Baltic countries have jointly called for this paragraph to be deleted. There are a number of informal geographical groupings at the General Assembly to discuss individual elections and possibly a common line on various issues. Finland is therefore part of the Nordic and Baltic Group, which met three times in 2019. But let us go to the main session in July on the role of the Parliament in promoting sustainable development and security. The discussions in the session repeated familiar confrontations and positions regarding the crisis in Ukraine, the situation in Abkhazia and South Ossetia, and Nagorno-Karabakh and its surrounding areas. However, the final document was adopted in the event of opposition from Russia and Turkey. Russia has repeatedly opposed almost all the entries in the Ukraine conflict. The Standing Committee also had to vote on further issues, in which a vote was taken on the initiative of the President of the Russian delegation, Mr Tolstoi, on the burial of proposals made by the Ukrainian and Georgian delegations. The additional subject of Ukraine was Russia's militarisation in the occupied territories of Crimea and Sevastopol, as well as in the Black Sea and the Asova Sea. The subject went on, however, because Russia and Tajikistan were left without support in this vote. The Chairman of the delegation shall use the Finnish vote in the Standing Committee. Russia also lost the vote on the additional issue of Georgia concerning the security and human rights situation in Abkhazia and the so-called Tskhinval region of South Ossetia. There was a special situation at the General Assembly when Russia later called for a new roll call in an attempt to bring down the actual final document. However, the President-in-Office of the Council did not allow it. Russia's demand was that, during the debate, some members had already left the meeting place. On several occasions Russia tried to claim that the General Assembly was not a quorum. According to the rules, the decision-making process requires half of the General Assembly to participate in it, and the Russian representatives then felt that this was not fulfilled. However, the secretariat disagreed, resulting in quite a skirmish and finally a march out. Russia stated that the Luxembourg Declaration could not be considered official and that it was not fully clarified. In August, Mr Tseretel appointed Mr Kauma as Special Representative for NGO Relations and a member of the General Assembly's Counter-Terrorism Task Force. After his term in office, Mr Kanerva continued to play the Emeritus role because the President-in-Office, Mr Tseretel, won his German opponent, Doris Barnett, and this then meant that Mr Kanerva continued his second term of office as an ex officio member of the presidency. I would like to make a specific mention of the General Assembly's autumn meeting. In 2019, the September session was held for the first time in the Democratic Partner Country of the General Assembly in Morocco. The theme of the conference concerned the security situation in North Africa and provided an opportunity to highlight the conflicts between Morocco and other countries in the region and the various forms of cooperation in the region. It is important to remember that the OSCE also has a Mediterranean dimension and parliamentarians from North Africa and the Middle East participate in some of the discussions and negotiations we have had. In addition to Morocco, these include, for example, Israel and Algeria. I would also like to mention the updating of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, which is intended to bring about a more strategic and coherent approach. There is a need for clearer rules for tough situations, such as voting. This reflection can be found in the audit report. On the face of it, the OSCE, established here in Helsinki, is constantly moving in a more professional direction, particularly in the field of election observation, but also as a reliable party to various conflict solutions. Discussions have taken place on accompanying events in the course of meetings and on regional cooperation networks. These have no formal status at the General Assembly, but their number has continued to increase, and they have become a good way of raising less formally issues and conflicts which are not necessarily permanent issues, such as this situation in Ukraine, but then there are also such cases of the treatment of dissidents and human rights activists, such as Magnitsky and Boris Nemtsov. In this context, many of these cases are also on the table in international fora. However, the potential role of China in the form of various informal Silk Road groups in its partner countries has been a source of concern to the General Assembly and the Standing Committee and is leading to measures that would allow the General Assembly, by formalising its activities, to intervene in its unclear activities. Mr President! In September, the Committee on Foreign Affairs heard the President and the advice of the International Affairs Committee, and in its report it considered that there was a clear touch between the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Committee on Foreign Affairs welcomed the efforts to intensify cooperation and dialogue between the Finnish delegations in order to make use of this interface and to ensure consistency of action and positions. The second important and operational task of the General Assembly is to exercise election observation. Interest in election observation has increased. The actual election observation has also continued during the corona period, and new rules have been introduced. The aim of the reform work is to ensure the smoothness, reliability and impartiality of election observation and, at the same time, to commit representatives more strongly to the observation missions in which they participate. Last year the General Assembly sent delegations to six countries. Ukraine did not accept Russia's election observers on the grounds of their legislation: they classified Russia as an attacker state. However, Finland also participated in Ukraine, Kanerva Kiev and signed in Odessa. Mr President! At the moment, preparations are being made for the parliamentary elections in Georgia. [The President knocks ]
