ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u2	Mr President! As early as last week at first reading, the government's proposal went through quite thoroughly, but in this committee's report I particularly draw attention to the transitional provisions, where the committee did a good job, because it is of course clear that this period of pandemics will have an impact specifically on the benefit of the debtor in these situations, but it has then been clearly sought by these transitional provisions to limit the time frame for bankruptcy. In other words, this second point, as the committee has said, ‘is relevant in terms of content and language to check that the application for the exchange rate is based on the payment obligations which have been recognised for more than twomonths prior to the date of provisional In my view, this is the most important piece of work that the committee has done here, and it has clearly sought to limit this bill to the enforcement of the interest rate situation, not to the extent that this applies in such a general way to all companies that have already been declared bankrupt by previous applications.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u3	Mr President! This bill is to be welcomed and is in the right direction. Now that these layoffs, dismissals, cash crises are coming at an accelerated pace, I encourage the government to be awake and to consider all the possible ways in which companies can be helped in this exceptional situation. It will certainly be easier to go over this valley of death by means of a help rather than by the fact that the company will have to quit and then, hopefully, at some point in the economic era, we will begin to start a new business, re-employment. This is the way of the smaller rysa to do everything that can be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u4	Mr President! The aim of the proposal is to prevent the emergence of a situation in which an undertaking which has suffered from insolvency as a result of the corona virus situation would be declared bankrupt on the basis of a presumption of failure to comply with a payment order threatened with bankruptcy. This has been proposed for a period of six months. People and businesses must be given a human opportunity. On the other hand, creditors must get their money at some point. There will be a lot of businesses in financial difficulties. The interest crisis can bring a huge wave of bankruptcy. It is now also important to keep legislation up-to-date. This is a temporary law and, if necessary, additional laws must be laid down. However, I wonder whether there should have been a longer period than this six months already. The same thing that happened at the time of the recession in the '90s must definitely not happen now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u5	Mr President! According to a recent survey by the state venture capital company Tes, as many as one in ten companies will not survive the next month when we look at all the different industries in our business field. This is a serious illustration of what the situation of companies is at the moment. The interest rate exemption and business disruptions have significantly weakened the activities of all different companies, but turnovers, especially of small and medium-sized enterprises, have plummeted. First in March, this hit small businesses, one in two, self-employed persons and enterprises employing 5 to 9 people, whose turnover declined significantly immediately in March. In the accommodation and nutrition sector, more than 40 per cent of enterprises say that the operating margin fell from 80 to 100 per cent. Hairdressers, physiotherapy, pedicures, taxi companies, school taxis — many taxi companies have lost 80% of their turnover. About half of specialised and department stores have lost their turnover almost entirely. The fall has now begun in the construction sector. Cafés and restaurants are in their own exceptionally critical situation. And if the government does not quickly obtain a package of support for the restaurant and café industry, which is required by Parliament, this law is also needed there, and it will not prevent the cafes and restaurants from going bankrupt. Today we have also received very serious messages from the export sector. Offer volumes have collapsed in April, and Jaakko Hirvola, CEO of the Finnish Technology Industries Association, is already warning that if Finnish exports stall in a harsh way, the result will be terrible for employment and well-being funding. Now also public events, festivals and, as a result, various music professionals, from bands to light and sound technology, are facing a very difficult situation. Estimates of their losses are already talking about over 150 million. Conferences are banned, many exhibition centers, event organizers are in a very difficult situation. In fact, the number of layoffs is now highest in Finland's history. Even in the depression of the '90s, we didn't see this high number of layoffs. In March, the number of full-time laid off persons was 65,000. The previous record was from the recession of the '90s, when there were more than 55,000 laid off. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u12	Mr President! This bill, as in the case of enforcement, is one of these interim laws, and I am also taking this opportunity to thank the government for the fact that these proposals have come very quickly and have come through the committee and are timed in such a way that they are of great benefit in this post-emergency treatment of the corona epidemic. I hope that the members of the Government who are here will take these greetings to the entire Government. This interim law of the bankruptcy law, which amends the bankruptcy law in so far as recovery is restricted by the interest rate, in particular this eight-day call for bankruptcy, is a very important instrument. It has also pointed out that it would not be possible to talk with it in such a way that those who have already been in such a state that business has not been profitable could then try to buy themselves some time. That it has also been taken into account in a good way, also thanks to the government. One thing that the government is allowed to prepare for in my opinion concerns this term of office, until 31 October, until 31 October, that we will have to deal with this issue again in the autumn and continue to do so, because this, as is currently the case with the whole business field, suggests that these bankruptcies or those threatened with bankruptcy will be a very significant number for us. We should now have a common spirit in this country to save as many companies as possible — that is, those who are viable and have the opportunity to continue to do so. We've got plenty of room to deal with this situation better than we did during the recession in the '90s. Banks are in better shape, balance sheets are strong and there is room for manoeuvre, payment-free, shortening-free years there are plenty of granted, and that also tells us that no one wants new events in the recession of the 1990s. In fact, I am not going to go through this proposal any further, because this has already been well discussed at first reading, but perhaps I will conclude by saying that this will be followed carefully now, and then, if that is the case, the government would have the will to extend this period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u13	Mr President! The risk here is that, on the basis of the presumption of insolvency, companies that are paralysed from the interest rate can now be put into bankruptcy and might survive the pandemic. Of course, despite the change in the law, it is still possible for the debtor to go bankrupt, but I believe that the proposal will reduce the occurrence of excessive situations resulting from the interest rate in which viable companies would go bankrupt. Since the first reading of the Legal Affairs Committee, I have been thinking about this proposal. The underlying objectives are important, and it is essential that their implementation does not fall within the scope of interpretation and application of the law. Is the solution proposed by the government to prevent the use of a call for payment threatened by bankruptcy as a basis for bankruptcy sufficient to meet the objective? I can't tell you that. The Legal Committee has concluded that there is no justification for amending the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act on the presumption of default based on enforcement in this context. It is now important to bring these changes into force quickly and, as Mr Laukkanen said, to follow them up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u14	Mr President! This amendment to the bankruptcy law helps debtors and entrepreneurs, and, of course, it helps ordinary people, entrepreneurs, in the middle of everyday life. Indeed, this fixed-term change removes this eight-day call for payment as a bankruptcy case. All other grounds for bankruptcy remain in force. And, of course, it is a good thing that, for example, bankruptcies were not prevented altogether, even because it may be so that there has already been difficulties before the interest rate, plus the fact that one cannot completely remove the creditor's protection either. That would have been too radical. At this stage, as chairman of the committee, I would like to thank again the committee's experts, who were really busy at night reading these proposals and bringing us valuable comments, and also the members of the committee who were familiar with things in a very short time. Among other things, we made changes to the entry into force provision. For example, when this law expires on 31 October, pending applications to the District Court will still be subject to this exemption law. Otherwise, it would have been an unclear court order. It is extremely important that the legislative proposals are dealt with carefully, despite the urgency. Professor Tuula Linna, who we had before us, Professor of Process Law and Chairman of the Legal Union, thanked the committee for not compromising the quality of legislation even during an urgent period. There were a few comments here about this law's validity that why it's like this. Indeed, there were a number of positions in the committee during the hearings. For example, the bankruptcy ombudsman would have been willing to shorten the time, the financial sector in the same way, and then, for example, the Finnish Entrepreneurs will continue after October. The Committee on Legal Affairs considered this, particularly on a constitutional basis, in the sense that in these exceptional circumstances, although this is not an emergency law, but is based on this emergency situation that is urgently being dealt with, it was considered that only the necessary period of time would be necessary. And, as Mr Laukkanen said, it may be possible that these will have to be looked at, as well as the articles on enforcement, as well as the articles of the Association Act, which just came in a hurry. Here I would like to say hello again: the Committee on Legal Affairs has now drawn attention many times and will pay attention to resources. If we want officials in enforcement, financial and debt advisers there in their everyday lives or courts to deal with these increasing amounts of cases, then more resources, handicrafts, are absolutely needed to work there. And again, I would like to remind you that, among other things, the functioning of remote communication devices in courts and prosecutors' offices is currently a disaster.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u15	Mr President! This amendment to the bankruptcy law is a clear, small relief to businesses and also to people in debt in this difficult situation, in exactly the same way as the change in the enforcement cycle we are dealing with today, or the debate on the cap on interest rates on consumer credit, that is to say, the dismantling of quick-lease systems, or the mitigation and control of whether it is said in this form. All these measures indicate that the government takes seriously the economic impact of the corona crisis on both the business field and private citizens, but it also shows that we have learned lessons from the past. Some contributions were made here, reference was made to the crisis situation in the early 1990s. The right-wing government of that time took a quite different line to our current government. At the time, banks were rescued with billions of transfers, EUR 10 billion was spent on saving banks, and at the same time entrepreneurs, the business field, collapsed. The wave of bankruptcy swept over Finland, and this crisis of over-indebtedness and the cycle that then plagued Finland for decades — still left of it — remained a wound for us, a long-term wound. Now the government is acting with great determination, and I have also appreciated the fact that the opposition is here to support the government, that we are trying to help companies now – the banking sector must also survive this – but above all the ordinary citizens. This is the right line. That is how these decisions must be made here, and together we will get through this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u16	Mr President! This coronavirus pandemic, as we know, has put many companies in a very challenging and difficult financial situation. This government proposal is good and very worthy, and we must do everything to ensure that the position of the debtor under the threat of bankruptcy has been secured. It is important that this law enters into force as soon as possible, and it is also justified that this deadline is in force until the end of October this year. But, as mentioned in those previous speeches, there must be a readiness to live in the moment and also to look at this deadline, depending on the situation. If it seems that October is too early, then we need to look at whether this should be continued. In fact, this pandemic, which is rampant around us, has had to take a number of restrictive measures and has affected the business and business opportunities of entrepreneurs. No one could have anticipated the impact of these measures on sales and customers and, consequently, on these difficult situations. The government's proposal is very welcome, and the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights raised some points which the committee drew attention to, including these resources. The government's proposal is very welcome, including, of course, the committee's amendments.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u17	Mr President! This temporary amendment to the bankruptcy law is indeed necessary and justified and, in that sense, important, but it is desirable that, in addition to this temporary amendment, it should also be hoped that, during this period, more permanent changes will be made to the bankruptcy law. We would need such a merciful bankruptcy law and also support for an entrepreneur to have a so-called second chance. Then to this bankruptcy law. The objectives of the law are also linked to corporate restructuring, and this is a system for the reorganisation of business-able enterprises. As such, it is regrettable in the current situation that these applications are rarely supported by banks. If the creditors are in favour of applying for a corporate restructuring, it can be done in just a few business days. A good example was Stockmann’s announcement — some time ago — on Monday to apply for a corporate restructuring, and a decision was already known on Wednesday. But if the company is going to apply for this corporate restructuring itself, it is a process of at least a few months. We all understand that if the situation has worsened in April, then there is no time to apply for a corporate restructuring, because the decision would eventually come with the knowledge of the Midsummer. It is therefore important that the government should now be able to promote this business restructuring issue in such a way that incentives and responsibilities are also given to banks to support these applications — in order for the company to have access to that corporate restructuring, then a fifth, i.e. 20%, must support these applications. The company that has been applied for restructuring often also needs funding to carry out this restructuring. That is why banks are so quick to support this issue is the fact that, in current legislation, the bank has to write down its loans and guarantees before restructuring. Of course, if there were many cases, this would also jeopardise the bank's solvency. I would have asked at first reading, and at this second reading, if Mr Henriksson had been present, what is the law governing this restructuring: it has been mentioned that access to the restructuring could be made easier. Let us hope that this is progressing, that responsible and effective and swift decisions are needed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u18	Mr President! This government proposal may well be supported, and it must of course be pointed out that the background here is, of course, that this cannot be misused and that certain parties will then, so to speak, begin to make sure that they get their own quickly; since, at the moment, society is trying to avoid these payments, this is a tempting attempt to get past a company so to speak, and to go and get theirs out with this threat of bankruptcy. On this donkey night, I can go to the point where I still bring up the fact that here, when we have to deal with this issue, this should be the end of the game... This is a very short period of time now and, in any case, knowing that the economic pain caused by this corona will continue for several years to come, this situation will certainly not change. There will be those companies that get over the interest rate, but there will be many companies that will have to work easily for 5 years in the battle of the interest rate, and there will certainly be bad credit ratings, and there will be no good projects like this when there is no funding for anything. Many entrepreneurs in the SME sector have a rather challenging future ahead of them to keep that head above the water level, even if the corona has passed and, as a rule, it seems that the world will start spinning. That is why I believe that, at the same time as, in any event, these matters are now being reworked, bankruptcy laws should, in the event of bankruptcy, be treated in the same way as public limited liability companies. It goes without saying that if the limited company has pumped the money out of the firm, it will not be accepted for the job, but if, in the last five years, there has been a reasonable wage increase — at least a lot of people have raised even a little bit of that salary, much less than a worker in the same workplace — then it will be seen that the bankruptcy and payment difficulties have not come from the customer's own pumping of money, which is why it would be quite the same way to treat a limited company in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u19	Mr President! When there is talk of bankruptcy, many are the first to think of companies that produce new goods or services. With a slight expansion, we have a very large and growing number of businesses dealing with culture and physical activity, thereby employing a lot of small entrepreneurs who are now in great need. I will take one example from the cultural side, from Valkeakoski, where I come from, a major cultural event called the Music Event of the Workers. It was supposed to be this year in the last week of July, but it is not, unfortunately. For several years I have been there, among other things, with representative Pia Viitanen, and the event and culture unite us across party lines. Such a big festival employs many local entrepreneurs either directly or indirectly, and now these entrepreneurs are also in trouble. What was shown in the amending budget for culture, sport and youth work was in the right direction. I am afraid that this 19 million, which was particularly targeted at cultural professionals and cultural events, will not necessarily be enough. Let us hope that these valuable events and their long history will continue next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u20	Mr President! That is where I tried a little bit to deal with the exceptional seriousness of the situation. I went through, among other things, how the number of layoffs is related to the recession of the 1990s, and we are therefore in a more serious situation at the moment with regard to those laid off than we were at the worst moments of the recession of the 1990s. In March, we had more than 65,000 Finns laid off full-time, while the previous statistical record of layoffs was from February 1993, while the number of layoffs was over 55,000. The 2008 financial crisis peaked at around 40,000, and it is now estimated that in April, that is to say after this month, the number of laid off could rise to up to 155,000. The number of unemployed job seekers in the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has also risen by 70,000 from one year ago. What also differs from these figures and tells of a major crisis is that there are currently around 8,000 high-skilled people laid off. In the recession of the 1990s, the layoffs of highly educated people remained in the fork of between 3000 and 400,000 in 2008 and in the crisis. The threat of bankruptcy is therefore obvious, and now it is important that we be able to support companies. I have been disturbed by the public criticism of Business Finland about the distribution of these subsidies. Mr President, it is not the fault of Business Finland that Business Finland allocates the allocation to it on the basis of the criteria and legislation it has been given. The government should have changed these Business Finland allocation criteria, and then this money would have been allocated to the companies most in need of them right now. In that sense, there is almost a lack of responsibility on the part of the government to put the blame on the officials and Business Finland, because it is the government that will find the culprit most easily when you look in the mirror. Fortunately, this bankruptcy law now helps these companies too, they cannot immediately be filed for bankruptcy. Let us hope that these changes and direct aid to businesses will be achieved. I also welcome the fact that the government has taken up the motion for a resolution on the refund of VAT. Of course it does it at a high interest rate and a short payback period. In fact, it is not a business subsidy, it is an expensive loan to these companies, and I hope Parliament will look at it again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u21	Mr President! A few more comments: In this regard, the chairman of the committee raised the need for these resources, and we did have a very careful debate on this, and we wondered how we could increase this weight towards the government now and bring this fact to the fore that, when we make such a necessary legislative change, then the whole chain that relates to it should be in order. At the time, we wanted to underline this resource issue in this report, stating that the committee requires that the adequacy of its resources be ensured as a matter of urgency. It became clear that when the authorities deal with these applications and others, there must be sufficient resources to prevent companies from going bankrupt. After all, bankruptcy legislation is important legislation in Finland, as it provides a legal opportunity to end unprofitable business. In other words, going bankrupt is not a crime, although in Finland it is often accompanied by such a feeling of shame if an entrepreneur goes bankrupt. There is no reason to be ashamed when only the conditions of business are inherently exhausted. Now this crisis leads to the temporary disappearance of the viability of many entrepreneurs in such a way that business is no longer meaningful, and then the bankruptcy is what the entrepreneur thinks. Now, within the framework of this law, you may get a little more time for reflection. Then, as a second point, I would like to point out that now that the bankruptcy law has been amended in this respect, then we still have these individuals who are either completely unemployed or laid off, and if the lay-off continues for a long time, then it could mean a breakdown in the personal economy. I would like the government now to give serious thought to the possibility of a personal bankruptcy in order not to prolong the anxiety that may arise from a corona pandemic for people. In other words, it would be important to take into account the fact that as many as possible would be saved in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u22	Mr President! An excellent law, which hopefully will be going through soon, and now that you think about it, along with it has also very well come a representative. From the point of view of reflection and comprehensiveness. Finns spend about 40 per cent of their income on housing expenditure, and at this point we also need to consider eviction practices in a new way that these arrangements, for example, with the enforcement officer, can be re-examined. I have asked a written question about this, and I have also received an answer. Let us hope that there will soon be additional legislative initiatives relating to this corona crisis, which could provide this flexibility for households, because the person who has been laid off or who has become unemployed will inevitably have to face payment difficulties. That is why, while we are considering these bankruptcy cases, we also need to consider the individual and the person on these issues, and I would therefore like to see other laws in this House that could loosen these eviction practices in addition to this good law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u23	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, we can now adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u24	Mr President! This government proposal, too, relates to the fact that, in the case of companies and private situations, this epidemic is creating disproportionate burdens and the enforcement procedure is being relaxed, limited and also delayed. Of course, even now, as the committee points out in its report, it is already possible, by means of the provisions of the current enforcement cycle, to assess, for example, the threshold for this application and its lowering and then the months of leave. But this proposal has now sought to bring the flexibility resulting from this particular interest rate situation to the level of the legislation, and these changes are intended to guide enforcement solutions to even more account being taken of exceptional circumstances. Perhaps I would be the first to point out that even today, the enforcement cycle allows exceptional flexibility, but in this context it is intended in particular to increase the temporary difficulties of payment resulting from this COVID-19 epidemic and the resulting exceptional circumstances. In other words, these have been raised in committee as a specific subject. The second point to which the committee has drawn attention is those periods of leave which, as provided for in Article 53, may be given up to three per year and, with the agreement of the creditors, no more than six months of leave may be granted per year. This proposal draws attention to the fact that the expropriation procedure has had to continue continuously or almost continuously for at least one year, i.e. it has not been proposed to amend this part of the proposal. It has also been pointed out in the committee that the debtor may also be given months off if he or she has suffered temporary payment difficulties due to the COVID-19 epidemic or the exceptional circumstances resulting therefrom, even though the foreclosure has not continued continuously or almost continuously for one year. This is probably where the committee has heard the views of the experts on the subject and, on the basis of them, has concluded with this proposal. Mr President! These free months, caused by exceptional circumstances and temporary difficulties in payment due to an epidemic, should be taken into account, but it is not as if, as in the previous proposal, this epidemic is being misused.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u25	Mr President! Over-indebtedness of citizens is not new, and last August the Ministry of Justice has set up a project to reduce the risk of over-indebtedness of citizens until the end of 2021. This is an important project, but in this time of the corona crisis we need to take more rapid interim decisions to help citizens who are in distress as a result of the corona epidemic. I personally have received a number of concerns regarding these enforcements, and I am therefore delighted that the Ministry of Justice has reacted quickly to this issue. I would also like to thank the committee for dealing with this bill as a matter of urgency. This bill restricts the enforcement procedure and postpones enforcement in order to better take account of the difficulties caused by the corona epidemic in enforcement procedures and thus to avoid unfair situations. The aim of this temporary law is therefore to guide enforcement practices in order to better take into account exceptional circumstances. It is important, among other things, that the temporary inability to meet the obligations resulting from the epidemic does not result in an immediate default marking. As stated in the bill, a rapid recovery from the exceptional situation is in the interests of both the creditor and the debtor. The workload of the enforcement agency has increased during the pandemic, and this bill will certainly increase the number of matters to be resolved, so we must also take care of the increasing need for resources for the enforcement agency. On the other hand, this law may also allow for different interpretation practices, so it is now important to provide rapid training for operators and to provide clear guidelines for their application in order to maintain equality between citizens in these decisions. Mr President! For many people on low incomes, the current epidemic is a particularly difficult time. It is now important that all citizens are taken care of and understood what exceptional circumstances mean for people with low incomes and financial difficulties. That, too, is what this draft law is all about — that is to say, helping people to overcome this acute crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u26	Mr President! This is one of these exceptional laws designed to make life easier for ordinary citizens in Finland. This will be a great need, because the number of people in enforcement will rise dramatically because of this corona pandemic. The Kingdom Vouti thinks and wonders that tens of thousands — perhaps 50,000 to 60,000 — will be new customers for them, and even now thinks that the number of cases in the enforcement process is approaching the rate of recession in the 1990s. Here is an extract from Finland, Joensuu: There is a family of six in which the father has been laid off and the mother is a nurse. He was in contact with the Vout in Joensuu and wanted to negotiate the payment months, the free months, and he has handled his affairs properly, and he said: ‘In reply to any kind of exemption,this is a parasol. We then sent to this bailiff the content of this government proposal, and the answer was again: there is no point in coming here for the sake of the interest.” I hope that this bill will now be read there and that the kingdom will also instruct Joensuu's enforcement, that now is not the time to kill people, now is the time to give people new beginnings. Since we all share this common desire not to repeat the recession of the 1990s and its consequences, it requires flexibility for all of us now, both from debtors and creditors, from all of us. It also means that these people, especially those in the enforcement area, who are fighting for their survival and are trying to deal with their affairs through it, including the enforcement includes these merciful, flexible elements. And as the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, said here, he has also tried to signal that we are now considering these recovery measures, and I am in line here with him. But I would also like to say that this proposal, although it is a good one, is not yet radical enough to protect the public in this situation, so once again I will turn from this opposition to the government, that there will be careful monitoring of what is happening in the enforcement operation, and indeed there will be some new elements which will force the enforcement action to take account of this particular situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u27	Mr President! Indeed, this will help people’s daily lives and people to survive there in the midst of their piles of calculations, and, as Mr Laukkanen said, even if certain provisions of the law on enforcement are already flexible, it is there that, in practical situations, they are not known or remembered to use them. The committee made changes here, and again I thank the committee and the experts for bringing important, important changes here in a hurry. Professor It was precisely this that the castle pointed out that if the Legal Affairs Committee had not added a new paragraph of section 52 of these free months so that it would not have had to last a year or almost a year, it would not have affected these very people who were in the midst of this crisis. This addition was made there. The same entry into force provision made clear that this law also applies to pending cases when this law expires on 31 October. Once again, a practical instruction. There the courts and officials will apply the laws if only this Parliament sends a clear message. I get a lot of feedback from law-abiding people that remember those entry into force provisions that they don't get into a mess there, because then we're in a lot of trouble. With regard to eviction, there were changes in the Government’s proposal so that the person’s moving day can be postponed by 4 months instead of 2 months, and then with the consent of the applicant for eviction from 6 months to 12 months. I think there was an al-Taee here, who was talking about eviction, so here's a little relief. Of course, the other side must think that if there is a huge amount of unpaid rents and, in addition, if there is some disturbance or destruction of the dwelling, then it will also have to be weighed, especially if you think of a private person, his rental dwelling, or if you have sold it in order to cope with your own debts. There are situations like this, but I understand that the hearings revealed that there is then also cooperation with social services. Yes, in the hearings the Kingdom Vouti told us that even now applications for restrictions on enforcement and other flexibility have doubled compared to the normal situation. That is why we reminded them that resources need to be in order, and there was also a lot of discussion about this, and the Office of the Kingdomvoud told us that they are doing this training and instruction in order to have uniform practice everywhere and to apply them. As far as that personal bankruptcy is concerned, I assume that it will be possible to resolve it by amending the law on the arrangement of debts. I would assume that in many countries where there is a personal bankruptcy, so there is no such law on debt arrangement. That is what I would like the Ministry to bring us proposals. I will continue with the next speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u28	I shall try to remind the representatives that it would be good to keep that one seat safe.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u29	Mr President! There are now two government proposals at this second reading: the bankruptcy law and then this bankruptcy cycle. I gave my own speech at first reading on these government proposals and supported them. They're good performances. It is worth noting that the problems that come in the course of the corona will continue after that in the case of bankruptcy and bankruptcy, so it is important that these laws come, which will make life easier for people even after this virus has passed. I would like to raise the issue now, as has been the case with so many people, of this recession in the 1990s. Our government, especially the young ministers, were children at the time of this recession, and now that they are grown up and in decision-making bodies, I hope that they will look very carefully at these issues and the measures that happened at the time because, in the context of the recession in the '90s, this post-poverty treatment of the recession went badly wrong and the number of poor increased dramatically, the problems were enormous. If you are now thinking of governments after the recession of the 1990s, have these governments, which have been, made life easier for people, those who even suffered unjustly the consequences of the recession and these bankruptcies and seizures? Have we done what we can and have improved their lives? The answer is that we are not, and that was almost 30 years ago. And now this situation, which is now developing, as we have heard, can be even worse. Now is not the time to make the same mistakes, but to learn the lessons from what has been made since the recession in the 1990s, and to think about how people who are going to go bankrupt and have done everything in their power to succeed, and society has received a lot of help from their work and tax markets. It's worth a look at now. It is in the interests of all of us to do this well. And let us not be hindsight here, but there is still the possibility that these matters will be clarified and that good solutions will be found. These governments' proposals in this respect are worthy of support, but more is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u30	Mr President! The Government's proposal is in the right direction, but, for example, Mr Laukkanen made a good point here about Joensuu's example. This is a bit of a downside to the fact that these free months have been given this in the past, but the enforcement almost admits it to its own will. And this whole government proposal is missing, in a way, the bit of a coercive thing, because you have to remember that there are sometimes even cases of staff chemistry, which is why someone does not get the free months they need. However, it goes without saying that there will now be more customers. In the past, there have been customers who have struggled in some way. Now, for example, a spouse may become unemployed or something like that, and it does not take much account of it. However, there are still quite a few cases where virtually everything is recycled through enforcement. So there are, in a way, people who can't afford the amount of money left in their pay, never come back out of that enforcement, because that money is never enough to pay for it and all the rest of it. For example, even at the moment, there is a lot of enforcement customers there because of these maintenance payments, because they go first and then, I believe, they do not even have interest rates at the moment. So the situation is that it even burdens the enforcement in vain, because in a way they will never get on their feet and out of that cycle of squirrels. Even if without the corona, this would be a hell of a good situation to bring it up at some point and try to get someone, even a six-month payment period to get that crowd out of there, because in reality, for many people, it seems to be such a billing machine now that there is no other option. You might want to take a little more of this. And indeed, at this point it is absolutely necessary to get the message that it is not that from here we are being told to the enforcement men: try to be more humane. It should be more an obligation: you must be more humane. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u31	Mr President! I will just finish that sentence, which was missed the last time, because I thought I would like these common agreed wishes of a rat, so let us talk about it for about three minutes. In other words, this personal bankruptcy is often referred to. I was looking at an article where then there was a situation in Europe, I think, was France, now I don't remember that country, so there was no separate law on this kind of debt arrangement, as we do. And it may be that it is even the same for them in a certain way in terms of content. I haven't made a comparison. By modifying the law on debt settlement, we would be able to get close to that situation. Of course, it must bear in mind the challenge that if there are many criminal-based and very recent criminal-based compensations, that is one thing, or else has behaved very dishonestly in that activity, then of course we must take into account. Of course, if there were tens of thousands of criminal claims and then continued to file for personal bankruptcy, it could not be so. And one thing I always think about is the individual or some individuals, if they are creditors, that for a bigger company it can be easier if you only get a fraction of your debt because of a payment scheme or nothing, but for a private individual, of course, it is also a disaster for him. I would, of course, like this to be the case — I do not know whether it should sometimes be a new topical debate on the enforcement situation and bankruptcy perhaps next autumn, now that we have little experience of this, and in that context we could discuss what is a personal bankruptcy, what it is in other countries, whether it differs very much from the law on debt arrangements, or whether we are actually talking about this same thing, but in different terms, when we keep talking about personal bankruptcy, personal bankruptcy, and what it means. How, for example, when it is often said that it is possible in the United States, does it also mean that you can get rid of such crime - based compensations permanently on a fast schedule, or do they have to be very old? But, of course, I think that we should look for ways to ensure that if a person has been accused of being sick or otherwise and has a cycle of enforcement and never seems to get on his feet. I know that there will then be some obstacles to the law on debt arrangements, such as the fact that the situation is not so stable as to allow the debt regime to be admitted that, for example, it has changed jobs. Such obstacles should be relaxed, as a person must also be able to get rid of those debts. It is not meant to shorten them for the rest of their lives and always run and try to catch the tail, and it always goes farther. But hopefully there will be more discussion about this, that what is a personal bankruptcy and what could be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u32	Mr President! There has been a good debate here, and I have drawn attention to the great fact that there is empathy and ideas for those who are in financial distress. In the midst of such a crisis, it usually means that the distress is getting stronger at home, and now that it still has to be inside four walls, it goes into power. The government’s proposals, and the previous ones in the firm’s case, as well as this one, are very good in themselves. At this point, I would like to raise a point — and to the government as just such a hint behind the ear — that it might be a good place now, while these things are being considered, to think about the fact that it is quite outrageous that in our society, in the Western welfare society, where there are people with limited means of enforcement, about a third of the salary of the bailiff is made up of commissions, which are determined by the amount recovered from the debtor. In my view, this may lead to discretionary flexibility being given to the debtor in the interests of low incomes. Hopefully this is never the case, but since only people are doing that work, I would like to say that in Finland there should be no commission to the enforcement authority, the government officials, for the enforcement of anyone's property. As has been said, it is great that we are now starting to make such decisions that make life easier for people in problems, and I am encouraging them to make such temporary changes to all possible points that can be achieved quickly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u33	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen raised the Joensuu case that there is a family there and that they have not received the sympathy of the bailiff so that they could have these months off or at least no relief has been promised. I also have the same experiences from a couple of people who have contacted — including family members — that the bailiff had immediately said that there was no chance that the plan, which has been drawn up before, would not be made easier. When it was the first reading of the enforcement arch, I asked Minister Henriksson how to instruct the enforcement men. He said that enforcement men will be trained and then given instructions on this matter, but that is likely to remain in their discretion. And just as Mr Peltokangas has said, it is now a rather critical question, which raises questions, if the bailiff has a commission salary even in part. In other words, the repo man should have a normal salary, which he deserves, but not a commission salary, because there may then be temptation for some, and if the personal chemistry really doesn’t go together, there may be something that you shouldn’t. I also asked Mr Henriksson about this issue of commission pay, but I did not receive an answer to that. But it should be considered. Then I would like to raise the issue of the recession of the 1990s to the extent that Laura Huhtasaari, in her presidential campaign, raised the issue of the truth commission and whether we should look at what happened then and who are responsible for what happened and how people were treated in Finland at the time of the recession of the 1990s when this banking crisis system came. It has not responded and, of course, it would be important to know who really were those responsible people back then and to make them answer. But probably it's too late already, because time has passed. But as I underlined there, we can now avoid all the problems and mistakes that were made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u34	Mr President! While you're here, a congressman. The sea considered this issue of a private debt arrangement and mentioned the United States here, and indeed in the United States, this private debt bill is very strict but merciful, and the idea is that it is the most sensible thing for society to bring people back to consumption as soon as possible when it is found that they have no chance of coping with their debts. In Finland, a private person’s debt arrangement has been in force for more than 20 years, it has been revised several times, but originally the individual’s debt arrangement law was such that it had more of a sense of punishment than it would have encouraged a person to start and try again. Many attempts have been made to correct it, but it has not been very successful. And I believe that, as a result of this corona pandemic, we will have to look at these issues in a new light because, yes, it is up to society to create paths in this society that give new beginnings to people who have not succeeded for some reason. And then maybe I'll tell you about these bailiffs. There are so many of them, just like the rest of us. Unfortunately, as a result of the recession in the '90s, some of my businesses went bankrupt and all that we had been able to obtain as a family until then, then we were liquidated. And I remember when two bailiffs were standing in our living room and the younger one said to the older one that you see there's nothing left to file, the older one looked and teachingly stared at the younger bailiff and said, "Look, when we're here, let's measure it. And there was the world of attitude, and the difference that could be. I think that this should be more specifically instructed that this attitude should not be there within the activities of the enforcement officer. I would hope that, now that this new interim law comes, this would provide such clear instructions to all enforcement circles in such a way that such arbitrary conduct could not be but would be fair and fair and always merciful rather than punitive.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u35	Mr President! I had not thought to take the floor on this issue. I have listened very carefully to the speeches made by my fellow Members, even those that touch me. But when it came to Elomaa’s speech about the recession of the '90s and now that I represent a generation that I was working then, I was the head of health care in the city of Pori, however, I am willing to say some things that might perhaps be learned there. There was a lot of things that were done wrong. The situation was such that, for example, in the export industry in the living city of Pori, unemployment rose to 30 per cent, in some parts of the city to 50 per cent. I was in charge of health care in the city myself. I had to make the 92 budget eight times less in one year when the town hall was ordered to cut 5% now, cut 3% and so on. On Monday, a great deal of food was spent in schools because many children had not had enough food at home during the weekend. However, libraries were kept open because it was very important that people had access to culture, for example, even though there was no money in practice. But if you think of what was done under the very difficult circumstances that could be learned from, then in a certain way today there is a strong sense of community. For example, the layoffs of cities — I am referring to Pori or New Town, for example, where there was also very high unemployment — were made to be circumvented. There was also the so-called "Rinte" model, which therefore refers to Heikki Rinte, who was also a member of the Parliament in the 1980s, who had been Pori's social secretary and then the head of the Rauma Employment Office, and to the lex Leppänen Act of 87, which employed people in private companies at the expense of society when the earnings-related 500 daily allowance period ended, and in this way the private sector, too, was able to share the burden of unemployment. Since then, this deep depression of about three years began to subside, and it can be summed up in four things that happened in it: For us, those who were working had to pay an average of ten percentage points higher than they had paid in the past. As the then Prime Minister, Esko Aho, has told us, all the debt we received from abroad was borrowed. Then there were competing operating lists — there were Alice’s lists, there were also Lipponen’s first government’s 95 - year operating lists. In addition, a great many such reforms were carried out. So, in my opinion, it is worth critically going through these experiences from the early 1990s. There are also things that we can now take advantage of, although there are mistakes that should not be made again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u36	Mr President! I would like to comment a little on that question raised by Mr Peltokangas and Mr Elomaa about the pay systems for enforcement or enforcement men. That is what we had in the Committee on Legal Affairs for the last term. In fact, there was a certain flaw in the fact that about one third of the fees paid by the enforcement men were made up of commissions on how much they were able to collect from that debt, and often this was compared with, among other things, the situation of whether, for example, police officers would receive commission on the basis of the amount of fines they imposed. In other words, is our society really prepared to get a commission on this kind of situation, which is very unfavourable to the people from whom it is inherited. But, of course, one must also remember the other party, that is, the creditor who also has the right to recover his own money, or at least a significant part of it, and often it is a private individual or a company that may also depend on the income that will then be recovered. In other words, when this system is being renewed — and I am sure it has already been considered in what way it is being reformed — it is worth noting that it is not possible to move directly into a system that pays the full monthly salary, but also to be able in some way to reward whatever it is for the good work, the observance of a fair collection and the effectiveness of the system. But human leadership cannot be such as to coop from one management system to another, but must also consider motivational measures to achieve good results. When we heard in the Legal Committee people who were familiar with this, it came to light that if this commission system went out, then the State would also lose, because a large part of these revenue is government and public contributions, which means that it is also visible directly in the treasury of the State. So there must be a pay system that encourages good work in the future, but in a just and better way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u37	Mr President! The debate has focused attention on these numerous points where the enforcement officer or The enforcement agency will exercise significant power in deciding how to collect, collect from whom, who will be granted free months, or how to carry out the liquidation of assets, forced auctions, and may move the property values of hundreds of thousands, millions of millions more fairly or less fairly, depending on the decisions taken. It is now important to note that this overall reform of the enforcement system, which will come into effect from the beginning of December as a whole, will open up opportunities to tackle such irregularities or very heterogeneous practices. There, then, on the side of this single enforcement agency, there are many ways of harmonising, and also of doing justice to this debtor, towards a one-way approach. The National Audit Office has at its disposal: training first of course, harmonising instructions, having internal checks, and this kind of control comes especially when there is a national automated system, comes all the time with this kind of tracking information, how to act in different areas. Then there are complaints, they must be arranged for this kind of light model, with which you can then get a higher level to check if the situation shows that you are oppressing a debtor or another is favored, and then, of course, complaints that are more official legal protection. These must be used and now demand that this article be used, that this overall situation in the enforcement institution improves in terms of the legal protection of citizens. It is certainly advisable that this remuneration system should also be renewed in the same context. There may be something about the type of pep kit involved in performance, but there is no justification for such a large scale. Today, when it comes largely according to the locality, how the computer systems run there. There it is, as the personal contribution does not necessarily mean in any way what kind of income is generated from it into each person’s account. This is also the point that the amendment is now being made. With regard to the arrangement of debts, it has been rightly pointed out that this whole package, which was made in the early 2000s, is well in line with the law on debt settlement, the maximum duration of enforcement, the expiry of debts, and then the possibility of conciliation on interest rates, which in some countries are referred to as the name of a personal bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u38	Mr President! On that point, I wanted to make a comment when Mr Laukkanen spoke about this situation in the United States, and somehow you replied as if I were in agreement that everyone should be able to start over and be able to be strict and merciful. I fully agree with that. I just wanted to ask myself, what is the right tool to respond to this more quickly? And now that I have sometimes strengthened debt arrangements in a court of law in my notary days, but I no longer remember everything, I went here to check the legislation, there is indeed a chance to confirm now that a debt is not paid at all and then comes this payment programme, which is at the most or, I think, five years, which can then be continued in certain cases, and it is like a challenge. There are very tight ones that you can make under changed circumstances. Then it's recounted again, and it's runnin', and it's not very supportive. I understand that if there is a sudden enrichment, if there are 90 million in Eurojackpot, then it may be reasonable for it to be returned. But it could be a bit like that half, for example, because it's possible. On the other hand, I understand that there's some protection period, that okay, you'll get out of all your debts, but if this happens to you, really, so that now that there's always someone in there, that's not a faceless blob. There's always someone's money on the other side. If such matters here in the debt arrangement law, this additional filtering obligation 35a§ It's so complicated that I'm sure the District Court judges have something to do when they're all going through it. And it's very bureaucratic, it's a huge round of hearings. I remember that everyone had to be heard and examined on their own, and then justified in one direction or another, that perhaps this could be made lighter. But I absolutely believe that people should not live in so-called debt imprisonment for all their lives, having lost their hope.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u39	Mr President! So much more to this pay system for the bailiffs and the engagement council, I would like to point out that, of course, a man and a woman's work should be rewarded, but if we think about average wages, for example, in the engagement council, then, from that point of view, the Finnish average from 4,000 to 7800 euros a month, and then again the fees of the bailiff go around in those five-ton cants in Finland, which includes this one-third commission rate. Then it is good to mention that the collection fee for the enforcement officer increases, for example, when a person who has to pay an automatic monthly fee for the enforcement, i.e. there is no need for much activity for this now, and the money goes into the account nicely. In the meantime, commissions are paid on the sale of confiscated property, among other things, to be paid to the engagement council’s officers acting as superiors of the enforcement officers. In other words, this is a nut to bite, that is to say, whether or not it will become a public sense of justice. Such a system does not fit the sense of justice of the field, especially when it happens and strikes at a low - income, often even a situation that it has not brought upon itself or on its family.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u40	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u41	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a temporary amendment of the municipal law to Parliament is of great importance in principle, although this kind of transfer of power can certainly be justified by this epidemic. The decision on the administrative rule can be regarded as a very important element of the decision-making power of the Board of Governors, and now that the decision-making power is delegated to the municipal board in these matters covered by the administrative rule, it may be considered that it would be a very significant transfer of power under normal circumstances. However, as the committee points out in this report, this transfer of decision-making powers is intended to maintain the decision-making capacity of the municipality under these exceptional circumstances, when normal meeting procedures are not practically possible under pandemic conditions and require an unwanted gathering from the point of view of reducing social contact. Of course, the deadline for this delegation of powers has been defined in this proposal, i.e. for a relatively short period, until 31 July 1920, and in that sense the municipal government has also been given the possibility of temporarily derogating from the administrative rule by its own decision, but not by the power to amend the administrative rule. The Board of Governors retains the power to decide on the administrative rule. The clause on the electronic meeting would then be in force until 31 May 2021. Mr President! I think most of us in this Chamber already have experience of what kind of council meetings are on hybrid models or what kind of municipalities have been held. These have, of course, been included in the governing rules of the councils so that the municipalities have been able to go through these different arrangements. I myself now have the experience of holding one council meeting as such a hybrid distance meeting, and I have to say that it will work if the issues under discussion are well prepared in advance and there are, for example, little political differences of opinion, let alone a vote and statements of support, for example. Mr President! This government proposal is a good one, and this is worth taking forward, as the Administrative Committee has done as it stands, as it has done.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u42	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the previous speech by Mr Essayah. This should be taken forward, and in fact this bill will restore my confidence, at least in part, in the government and will further improve my confidence in municipal governance and its flexibility in exceptional situations. A lot has been done very quickly at local level so that the interests of residents can be safeguarded and decision-making works as it should in such a situation. Indeed, as mentioned earlier, this is temporary and allows the municipal government to temporarily derogate from the administrative rule by its own decision. What is worth going through in the years to come and in this parliamentary term after the acute crisis is, for example, this protective equipment. In this respect, the administration has not acted as it should in Finland. The same applies to communication and safety issues for medical staff. I think, for example, that there is a place in the Committee of Auditors where it is worth it — not to blame, but to find the models that work so that mistakes are not made again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u43	Mr President! This temporary bill is to be welcomed, because in exceptional circumstances there are many ways to dare to try and reform activities and also to try new things. If you want to look for some good things in this epidemic, at least that we have taken a much faster and much longer digital leap, on a faster schedule than what would have happened without this corona. This bill temporarily allows electronic meetings to be held in municipalities and joint municipal boards and in all the institutions, and many municipalities have already moved to electronic meetings. This possibility now also comes to joint municipal boards and to municipalities where the administrative rules do not define the matter. This law also makes it possible for a part to participate remotely and a part on the spot. I hope that many municipalities and joint municipal authorities will start experimenting with these opportunities and that these experiences will be brought together at national level so that we can draw conclusions from the experiments and learn from them. It is important to bring together both successes and failures. For the future, we need to explore, among other things, how electronic meetings and the technology and equipment needed for them can be developed even more user-friendly and secure. Information security is also an issue which requires further verifications and clarifications. I hope that the development of remote meetings will be taken as an opportunity and not a threat. Of course, it requires learning, especially from the chairman of the meeting but also from the participants, but only by doing so. I strongly believe that this approach can become a new standard when used correctly. We certainly need attendance meetings to continue, but on the other hand, I believe that many of us also have experience that things could have been handled as well and as effectively as a distance meeting. Reducing unnecessary travel makes sense for many reasons.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u44	Mr President! It is therefore proposed to amend the municipal law so that electronic meetings can take place in municipalities, but also in joint municipal authorities and other similar cases, beyond these existing administrative rules. In other words, it would be possible to go beyond the administrative rules, but the administrative rules could not, of course, be changed by the municipal governments, but this would be a fixed period of time when the administrative rules would not have to be complied with, so to speak. I am not sure that there are currently members of the Administrative Committee present in the Chamber, but it would be... [Aki Lindén raises his hand] There is, of course, the exception to these other institutions, that there is also this demand for publicity, but it can be dealt with today through streaming, for example, through the Teams meetings. Sound and visual communication in these areas will continue to be mandatory. It may be challenging from time to time to ensure that the closed meeting cannot be followed by other persons in the home, for example, and that the representatives can act without, for example, being on the kitchen side listening to what is being decided by the other municipal board or vice versa. Network connections are one of the things that goes to the big, central importance here, and it is important to ensure that network connections in rural areas are improved as well. We have now seen a significant increase in telework at the same time as schoolchildren are still in remote education, at least for the time being, and the networks are very heavily loaded. There is also a requirement here that the image should appear when spoken, and this may cause some problems with the use of this legislation in the case of weak network connections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u45	Mr President! Here, therefore, a fixed-term change in the law aims to ensure the decision-making capacity of municipalities and joint municipal boards during the restrictions on assembly by enabling meetings to be held electronically more flexibly than before. This bill is very good and very responsive to time and circumstances. As has been pointed out in many of the speeches, we as parliamentarians – many of us are also the decision-makers – have recently become very familiar with electronic meetings and meetings. So in many places we have defected to a completely new frequency, which certainly has come, at least in part, to stay. Yesterday in Seinäjoki, for example, the city council met its history at a distance for the first time, and everything went perfectly well. For the most part, the Korona virus has caused grief, fear and strong economic and human uncertainty. Its merit, however, if any merit can now be attributed to it, is that the world, after the corona, is even more open to work, study and living in a multi-placed and placeless environment. This means that people's choices for building their own lives will be diversified and balanced. While there is always a place for physical presence, and in many places it is also the only possible way to act, the world of remote communication sets the world in a whole new position of work and action. At times, it may even allow parents to have more time for their loved ones when the physical distance from the nursery to the study is a few meters. It also makes it possible for everyone not to be confined to the same areas, but to choose the starting points of one’s own life more freely. I also believe that this world of distance education, which is now strongly present in schools, will also contribute to diversity after the corona. Of course, it does not mean that the value of local education needs to be weighed, it must still be the host, but the electronic world can be a good help to teaching and be a good servant. President! I welcome this bill and the message it sends about diversifying work, study and municipal decisions with joy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u46	Mr President! This corona epidemic produces a coronagiloquence in this society, and this is one indication that we are now going to have to give in to a whole range of new things, as the President has said. Yesterday there was a council meeting in Espoo with 75 delegates plus officials, more than 80 people completely digitally, and as many as three votes that went very well, and that just proves that one of the benefits of this corona virus is that the digital transformation will take place much faster than we had originally thought. I myself have three to five different meetings a day, both in relation to Parliament and in relation to the rest of the world, and I have noticed that in all those places where I take responsibility for management, I will certainly suggest that we do not go back. With this in mind, society will change, and that will be one of the advantages of this epidemic. This is a good change of law, and it is already being applied in many places, that I was wondering a little bit what the purpose of this proposal is, but it will probably open up at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u47	Mr President! This temporary amendment of the municipal law at second reading in the area of electronic decision-making is necessary, as stated in previous speeches. Perhaps it should have been dealt with a couple of weeks earlier, when the decision-making process has moved forward in the municipalities during this corona period, but this is good. And, of course, there is every reason to hold on to democracy under all circumstances. Indeed, local government rules do not everywhere anticipate that the interest rate will strike and affect municipal decision-making in the most significant way it has done. For example, in the hometown As the situation dawned, Kauhava had to speed up the updating of the administrative code, and now it has come from the City Board and we have a council meeting of 11 May. — Isn’t that the next Monday? — and then we can put this rule of government in order. Now, of course, there is also this national handcuff here. Mr President! The report draws attention to key issues, of which I would like to summarise: In other words, even if we are in an electronic environment, all decision-makers must be genuinely involved. I know that there are decision-makers for whom this digital leap is a fairly demanding cross-check, and in this context I must take care of it — even myself, when I chair the Kauhava City Council — that these things will then move forward so that everyone is genuinely involved. This publicity of council work is also to be taken into account in this situation. After all, the streaming and all the imaging techniques have now come, and thus the publicity of the council meetings will remain, and it is important that citizens are able to monitor what is taking place in the decision-making process in the municipalities. We are now also living in demanding times on the municipal decision-making front. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that this is where the rapid training in this kind of digital world has taken place itself, including myself. And, yes, these can become a good tool at a normal time. I would believe that quite a few meetings, which can only be held in a digital environment, will then be held in a time of peace in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u48	Mr President! It has been said here in previous speeches that these electronic meeting practices have already been tried out in different municipalities, and I myself stayed to reflect on the point of this bill, so to speak. I understand that its purpose is to exempt, as it were, the councils and municipalities from the responsibility that they themselves should change this rule of government, and to give such a general rule on the whole kingdom that this can be done on the one hand until 31 July with regard to these decision-making methods and then 31 May. until 31 May next year for electronic meetings. In Espoo, where I work both in the council and in the City Board, these decision-making methods have already been followed. We have had about four meetings of the city council electronically, and the issues that we have mainly considered at these meetings are issues of confidentiality, where there is always little problem that when you do things at a distance, how can it be said with certainty that no information, for example, belongs to third parties when you are in remote contact with your homes and so on? There may be very detailed issues in relation to the demands for correction of persons and so on, which are not to go to the ears of outsiders. This type of thing comes mainly to reflection and then, of course, to network connections and the fact that all those who are in these decision-making bodies have sufficient IT skills to deal with these issues. In other respects, as Mr Laukkanen did in the past, I personally believe that some of these practices have certainly come to stay. Some meetings will continue to be held electronically, but then there is also the drawback of not seeing each other's reactions to different performances and missing that personal contact. I believe that, at least occasionally, we also need that physical presence at those meetings so that we can keep in good contact with each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u49	Mr President! As has been said here, this amendment of the law was actually made precisely so that the councils no longer need to be convened in order to allow for a temporary derogation from the administrative rule by a decision of the municipal council, but, as has been said here, so many councils already had the opportunity to hold the meetings which amended the administrative rule so that the council meetings could also be regarded as electronic. In that sense, this may have come a little late, but, on the other hand, there may still be joint municipal boards, for example, where this change has been expected, that joint meetings can be held. Indeed, yesterday I noticed from the social media that quite a few councils had the first electronic meeting, as we did in Espoo, and it is important that this presentation also helps to clarify the ways in which these remote meetings can be held. Indeed, our meeting finally went well, up to the votes, and somehow it was great to see a certain sense of community that was there between us when we wanted that meeting and everything to go well, and that is what happened. But like a representative As Mr Kauma said, perhaps after the meeting there was a feeling that there was still a lack of interaction in the council halls and meeting halls, that certainly not all electronic meetings would be replaced, hopefully. But, as has been said, it is, of course, necessary, in terms of the soundness of the decision-making process, that everything goes according to the paragraphs and that the formalities do not become grounds for appeal, and it is therefore important that the legislation and guidelines are sufficiently clear, and that too is what this legislative amendment seeks to achieve. Mr President! There were a number of points raised in the Committee on Administrative Affairs which I would like to make briefly. It has already been stated here that this confers the decision-making power of the municipal council on the municipal board, but the delegation of powers is quite limited and justified, but I would like to stress that it should never be done lightly, and it also states here that the municipal government cannot change the administrative rule, but it is possible to derogate from it for these justified reasons. Secondly, it is important now to clarify the regulation and to lighten the ways in which a distance meeting can be organised and implemented. Because there has been confusion about the fact that there was mention of this equal connection of sight and hearing, if there is a risk or fear of not having the courage to implement this point because of the certainty that this point can be complied with, then it is now clear how this can be sufficiently achieved with the existing, normal electronic systems. Indeed, this has already been tested in different cities. Mr President! Furthermore, it cannot be emphasised that electronic meetings must be organised in such a way as to ensure that:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u50	Mr President! This government proposal for a temporary amendment of the municipal law is expected and is indeed an addition to the municipal toolbox. The continuity of municipal decision-making must also be ensured under these special exceptional circumstances. There has been a need for the proposed changes for several weeks and the Coalition Party has called for them. It is great that this is now coming into force on 1.5. this week. There are indeed two provisions of the municipal law, one of which will allow this amendment to the administrative rules to be in force until the end of July, and then this article on the electronic meeting would be in force until the end of this parliamentary term, i.e. until May next year. This new provision does indeed confer on the Government the power to derogate from the decision of the Board of Governors on the Administrative Rule or to decide on a matter which falls within the Administrative Rule rather than the Board of Governors as regards the decision-making procedure of the municipal institutions, the electronic meeting and the sending of an invitation to a meeting of the institution and the right of the public to monitor the institution's meeting on the spot. This last, that is to say this issue of publicity, has certainly been the most relevant at the moment, if we are to consider whether the governments have considered whether there is a quorum and whether there is an opportunity for the public to follow if we had already had the opportunity to move on to other aspects, for example, the Teams meeting or any other electronic meeting. As Mrs Elo has pointed out, this is now particularly important for May and June too. We have health care districts and upper secondary education associations, which will have a joint meeting in June, which is therefore a public meeting, and that is why these joint boards will now be allowed to make those changes by decision of the Board of Directors, even if there is no possibility in the administrative code, and therefore the joint meeting can be convened electronically and will also be valid as an electronic meeting. Then, Mr President, there are two things: Indeed, with regard to this electronic meeting, the committee also wrote that the equality of visual and audio contact can be interpreted in so far as, at the beginning of the meeting, the audio and video communication are on-line. We also wrote here that ‘in practice, existing programmes and communication links are not necessaryfor all participants to have a completelyuninterruptible picture link’,i.e.it is accepted that the vessel Then, Mr President, to the end of this closed ballot: It is very rare for councils to use it, but when a delegate asks for it, there must also be an opportunity to do so, and we have pointed out that there are different possibilities and technical solutions, which, of course, it is important for the municipalities to take into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u51	Mr President! I followed this debate from my office, and good speeches have indeed already been made here. All in all, in this context, I would like to thank the government for bringing forward rapidly these legislative proposals which enable electronic meetings, not just now in this municipal administration, but more generally. Yes, even for my own municipality, this is a great relief, so the next city council is going to be organised electronically. I have to say that although the representatives are quite elderly in my own municipality, for example, the electronic meetings of these other institutions have worked surprisingly well up to now, which means that they have received good feedback. And I think that if this time of the corona epidemic is very bad for us in many ways, there are some positive aspects to it, namely that it has forced this digitalization and forced these electronic practices to learn, and they are surprisingly well-educated. So that we can continue to benefit from this when hopefully soon we will be able to get past this corona time, it would be very important now to draw up experiences, for example, on how the meetings of the municipal councils have been conducted and on how this electronic meeting should be developed. This bill is in force during this parliamentary term, but this report also states that it may then be possible to propose a permanent amendment to the new municipal law in respect of Article 99. And before it is laid down and the proposal is made, it would be important for the government then to gather the experiences of these meetings during this exceptional period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u52	Mr President! A few more comments at the end. Indeed, I wanted to emphasise that when organising these electronic meetings, we must ensure that each member actually has the technical possibilities and the necessary support to attend the meetings and that there is sufficient advice and support for remote access. I have to admit that I myself have had to call the help desk a few times when the written instructions were not opened by the first reading. I believe — and I hope above all — that, as a result of the corona epidemic, there will now also be an interest in developing meeting systems more user-friendly to those who produce them, because there will certainly still be room for further development. Similarly, I think it is important to allow hybrid meetings, i.e. that a participant can also come to the meeting place if it so wishes, so that the assistance is close, because at home alone, participation in a meeting at a distance may be too stressful for some people, and it should certainly not become an obstacle to participation. And, of course, as has been mentioned here, there is no guarantee that everyone will always have functional network connections to their homes. Mr President! Finally, in order to organise electronic meetings, the transparency of meetings must be ensured, and these connections and systems must be such that interested local authorities are able to monitor the meeting electronically. As the previous speaker has said here, this amendment of the law is valid for the end of the parliamentary term and for the implementation of these electronic meetings. I also attach great importance to the fact that this issue is now being examined in the light of these experiences as a whole and that permanent changes to the municipal law will be made on the basis of good judgement and preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u53	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u54	Mr President! The situation as a result of the Corona virus epidemic has been reflected in the company negotiations notifications received at the Employment and Economic Development Offices and in the increased number of unemployed job seekers who have been laid off or registered for other reasons. In turn, the exceptionally high number of simultaneous applications for unemployment benefit poses challenges to those implementing unemployment benefit. The unemployment funds and Kela have reported that the large number of applications may lead to delays in implementing unemployment benefit. Proposals to simplify and clarify the provisions on unemployment benefit, thus reducing the amount of work required to process applications for benefits, have been prepared together with those implementing unemployment benefit. By streamlining the processing of applications, resources will be released for processing the increased number of applications. A smoother treatment of benefits would reduce the work of executives whose benefits still exist, but because of the increased number of applications, there is no temporary justification in this situation. With regard to the mediation of unemployment benefit, the proposal proposes that the income should be taken into account when settling the income of the enterprise on the basis of the applicant's own declaration. A temporary derogation is also proposed for the use of so-called imputed income and a special conciliation period. During the preparatory work, the work phases have been described as employment, and these changes would reduce the handicrafted work of benefit handlers which is time-consuming and which is not appropriate or feasible to transfer to information systems. It is proposed to suspend the application of the rules on the need for and partiality of labour market support. In this context, I would like to point out that Kela has stated in its opinion to the committee that these changes should only be taken forward if the waiting period for labour market support is also temporarily abolished. Another option proposed by Kela would be that changes in labour market support should not be made in this context. In this regard, it is necessary to clarify this proposal in committee and it will be carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health as a matter of urgency. Mr President! Right now, it seems that the application process has not yet revealed the risks that were previously feared to be realised as a matter of urgency in the response of society to the COVID-19 epidemic. This does not mean that the risk should not be prepared and that this situation picture could not change. The Unemployment Security Act already includes the possibility of paying unemployment benefit without a decision as an advance. It is now proposed to temporarily amend the provision on the payment of unemployment benefit without a decision. On the basis of the application, the unemployment benefit could be temporarily paid in advance for a maximum of six months, with a limit of two months. This would secure a livelihood for the applicant for unemployment benefit in the event of delays in processing unemployment benefit applications, thereby reducing the application for income support. The law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible. The law would be in force provisionally until the end of October.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u55	Mr President! We have recently discussed very many temporary deviations from various laws. This, of course, reflects the strong response of the government to the various situations in society that have been triggered by the corona virus epidemic in this society. Unfortunately, this epidemic has also stopped many companies, and there are already more than 150,000 laid off. New announcements of the negotiations will be made on a daily basis. As each of us understands, the number of applications for unemployment benefit has increased considerably compared to the normal situation. This government proposal proposes to provide for temporary derogations from the Unemployment Security Act in order to ease the processing of the application and not to slow down access to benefits. This is a good starting point. This streamlined procedure may, of course, also allow for the risk of errors and abuses — I hope this will not happen — but these exceptional circumstances require bold decisions, and they also require swift decisions. President! Above all, work is becoming more important in a weak labour market situation. Work brings us financial security, and pay enables many of our leisure dreams. However, work has many other beneficial effects on well-being and quality of life. The work rhythmizes the daily lives of each of us, and doing meaningful work also raises self - esteem and a sense of self - esteem. At work we meet colleagues, and the workplace is an important centre of social life for many of us. Workgroups share joys, share sorrows, and support others. President! Unemployment is challenging both economically and mentally. Such a quick and fluent positive benefit decision, as set out in the proposal, will ease distress, ease the situation and also strengthen faith in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u56	Mr President! Good Minister and others present! Thank you for this flexibility in the treatment of unemployment benefit. As we discussed earlier in connection with bankruptcy law, we currently have a huge number of people laid off. Even in the '90s, our history has not even been close to this level of lay-offs, and the number of unemployed job seekers on the lists of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has increased by over 70,000 from one year ago already at this stage. According to the estimates of the Confederation of Finnish Industries, as early as one month old, as many as 18% of Finnish companies are in danger of going bankrupt. This would otherwise be significantly higher in the end than in the recession of the 1990s. Good speeches have been made here today and we have remembered what happened in the recession of the '90s and how many families, former entrepreneurs, the children of that age, are carrying it on their shoulders as adults. We must remember that measures are now needed to help these companies over this difficult period. It is therefore a priority to ensure that unemployment does not explode in the hands. The response should be, above all, to help businesses overcome this serious crisis. Enterprise aid — Business Finland, ely — is something that needs to be given more attention now. It is a fact that the government has failed to allocate these business subsidies to those companies that need them at the moment, and it is pointless for Business Finland to blame for that. They have distributed the money precisely on the basis of the criteria and legislation that the government has given them. The problem is, then, that some miracle in our government is holding back this support for the restaurant and café sector, which Parliament has unanimously called for, and yes, Minister, there will be a huge number of these unemployment insurance applications if you now allow these cafés and restaurants to go bankrupt because of this bickering and delay. Rapid measures are needed to help these restaurants and cafes overcome this serious crisis. These measures are needed at a large scale in the business field, and I hope that in your negotiations there will be solutions to these. It is important that, when a person is laid off or unemployed, this flexibility in unemployment protection, presented by Minister Pekonen, is made available quickly. - Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u57	Mr President! The Korona virus really does test people in many ways, not least economically, of course. According to yesterday’s data from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the number of lay-offs that began after 16 March in Finland was around 164,000, and the start of the negotiations concerned some 450,000 employees — quite gruesome figures already at this stage. Many companies and employers have not been able to adapt to the constraints and specific circumstances other than by lay-off or even redundancies. It is clear that the simultaneous high number of job seekers and applications for unemployment benefit will also result in a complete exception to the payment of unemployment benefit. In the past, Parliament has already required the government to explore ways to streamline the treatment of unemployment benefit benefits and to ensure that unemployment funds and the implementation of Kela do not lead to delays in payment. The Government’s proposal now responds to the Parliament’s request. Under these circumstances, the proposal has been drawn up in a very busy time frame and has a good aim. The aim is to simplify the provisions on unemployment benefit, thus reducing the amount of work required to process applications for benefits. This would apply to certain situations of reconciliation of unemployment benefit, special conditions for labour market support and the payment of unemployment benefit without the conditions for a decision. The benefit could be temporarily paid in advance for a maximum period of six months on the basis of the application. This would be a huge relief to the implementation of benefits and thus to safeguard people’s livelihood. It should be noted, however, that when things are being prepared in a hurry, there are also risks associated with it. Mr Pekonen said that up to now the risks have not been materialised, as may have been feared, and the treatment of benefits has been surprisingly successful so far, but it must be borne in mind that applications have come in, are currently being processed and, unfortunately, there will be more. Therefore, I still hope that attention will be paid to the risk, so that our systems will also be subject to the changes and reforms that are now being proposed, and to the fact that staff time will by no means be wasted on training and learning new systems, but will actually be able to get the resources to where this government proposal was intended to get them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u58	Mr President! On 16 March, when the government announced the existence of exceptional circumstances, the number of negotiations and lay-offs immediately started to grow strongly. Indeed, as Mrs Viljanen said there, more than 5100 employers have been registered with the TE Offices by yesterday and they cover a total of some 459,000 employees. Concerns about the congestion of unemployment funds and Kela have been raised from many quarters, and I myself have suggested here earlier that we should consider whether unemployment benefit can be paid in advance so that people can get over it. This concern has now been answered by the government with a legislative proposal in this debate, so thank you for that. The proposal proposes temporary changes aimed at simplifying, in certain circumstances, the provisions on unemployment benefit, thereby reducing the workload required for the examination of the application for benefits. The proposed changes concern certain situations of reconciliation of the unemployment benefit, specific conditions for labour market support and the payment of unemployment benefit without the conditions for a decision. On the basis of the application, the unemployment benefit could be temporarily paid in advance for a maximum of six months. Indeed, it is now a month and a half in the case of exceptional circumstances, and at the moment we do not know at what stage these restrictions will begin to be lifted. The government has promised to report on it after May 3rd. In that sense, I wonder, depending on the measures taken, whether this bill will have such an effect that it will actually be useful. If these restrictions can be lifted within a very short time frame, the benefit may be slightly reduced. It is understandable that, in this situation, when the measures taken by the government have been taken in a hurry and under great pressure, they may then be ignored by the ease and simplicity of implementation, and they will then have to be given some thought afterwards. Now this matter comes to the Committee on Social Affairs on a very short schedule, so that we received the 30-page government proposal seriously yesterday, and it is based on relatively complex legislation, and we received expert statements from a crooked stack at 9 a.m. this morning, e-mails which I have not yet had time to read, that this evening is probably going through these. In fact, we will be discussing this tomorrow in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and I hope that, if everything goes well, we will get a report out of it, and then we will come back to this debate next time in this Chamber. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u59	Mr President! I will return to the fact that, about three weeks ago, an amendment to the Unemployment Protection Act was adopted in this Chamber, which included, among other things, the abolition of the retention period for laid-off persons, and, in connection with the examination of that law, Parliament also gave an impetus in which it drew attention to the implementation of Kela and the unemployment funds. We are now in a situation where we have this government proposal, in which we want to improve this implementation with regard to Kela and the unemployment funds. At the same time, I would like to say that on Friday, with the second amending budget, EUR 41 million was allocated to Kela to improve implementation and EUR 20 million to unemployment funds. In other words, the government has also tried and the Parliament has also tried to improve this resource, and I believe that, for example, visa handlers have been employed in Kela who are easily able to take up these new applications. The government's proposal, which we have before us now, as has already been mentioned in many speeches, including the speech by the rapporteur, the Minister, is intended to remove temporarily such tasks from these benefit handlers that they will be able to put all their energies into dealing with these specific applications for unemployment benefit. After all, that is what simplicity is all about. We have been told, and it has also been mentioned here, that this has been prepared in good cooperation with Kela and the unemployment funds, and there is reason to believe that they are the best people to know their own work and what are the measures that would then facilitate the processing of these applications so that they can get more energy into it. One point I would like to make in particular is that it is important that, at the moment in the legislation, it is possible to pay unemployment benefit for two months by means of a pre-financing procedure, and in this government proposal it will be increased to no less than six months. So I think this is the big question that matters. Finally, I would like to point out from Mr Pekonen's statement that I believe that we in the committee also have a common will to seek a solution with the ministry as soon as possible so that this government proposal can be dealt with and taken forward as quickly as possible. At least that is the way I am trying to do it, so that tomorrow we can do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u60	Mr President! As the number of people laid off and unemployed during this corona epidemic has increased exponentially, almost half a million people are already employed in the negotiations for lay-offs, the congestion of the benefit handlers is a very logical consequence of this. It is a great thing that the government has now brought in this Parliament's request for flexibility so quickly, and this will certainly be dealt with quickly there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The aim of these changes is to safeguard the right of the applicant to social security during the period of unemployment in a situation where the processing of applications by executives has become congested and could lead to these excessive delays in the payment of unemployment benefits for the applicant. In practice, for the unemployed, the most significant change in this is, in my view, that unemployment benefit can be paid in advance on the basis of an application for six months and not for the two months currently covered by the law. This is a great thing for this to come to this. Of course, it is possible, as has already been said here, that this legislation can also make it possible to abuse these benefits, but that is the risk which, unfortunately, must be taken in this situation. And even if we can quickly dismantle these interest rate restrictions in a fortunate case, it is assumed that in many sectors employment will not improve in a moment. For example, even if at some point cultural activities and restaurants and theatres are opened up, many people, especially the elderly, are likely to be rather sensitive to them and may then cause further clotting in this area. But flexibility is needed, and that is why I thank you for this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u61	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Peko for this proposal, which would allow unemployment benefit to be paid in advance on the basis of the application for up to six months instead of two months. At the same time, I would also like to thank you for your excellent answer to my written question, which I submitted about four weeks ago. These problems of the unemployment funds were particularly highlighted by the JRC, which is this Loimaa cashier, because of the congestion of these applications, which already existed on April 1, when my written question was submitted, amounted to 375,000. In other words, there were so many negotiations then and laid off and all unemployed as early as 112,000, and now this number has only increased. But when these problems of the JRC came to light, I myself was in contact with most of these larger funds, and I learned that even though they were not so great at hand, it would be only a matter of time before it would be so. Therefore, this is not just about a single cashier, it is about the situation of most cashiers and, of course, the situation of Kela as well. I am therefore pleased that in your reply to the written question, the funds will receive EUR 20 million and Kela EUR 41 million. This is the problem at this stage, but, of course, if we have a second wave and the problem is prolonged, then we are also asking whether the cashiers' money is enough to pay these unemployment benefits at all. In addition, dealing with these cashiers revealed that the most important bottleneck in these applications was the determination of the salary and the other the lack of information in the Incomes Register. Of course, this too can be solved in a way that increases the number of handlers or facilitates processes, but the biggest problem is really the question of determining wages. There has also been an option in public to involve employers in this way that they would have been used to define unemployment benefits, because they have the most recent knowledge of how much these people have earned and how long and then how long they have been connected to them. But this was now decided on the basis of an advance application, i.e. an advance of no more than six months instead of two months, and that is also a very good option. The main thing is that we don't leave these people on top of nothing. This situation with regard to the corona crisis has come to the hands of everyone so quickly that it is vital that this issue is addressed urgently. And, as has been said, I would like to thank the Minister for this opening.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u62	Mr President! The government's proposal is a good one, and as has been said here in many speeches, the wish from this Chamber was quickly responded to. That statement by Minister Pekonen now somewhat confused me about that unemployment benefit. The government's proposal in the referral debate on temporary derogations from the criteria and treatment of unemployment security is a truly important change for the unemployed in terms of both the provisions on unemployment security and the procedures for processing applications, and hopefully then the additional funding of this good EUR 8 million will then be accepted in that supplementary budget on the third. The performance must also be commended for reaching that far into the autumn until the end of October. In the processing of income support and labour market support, the labour force is the main cause of the reconciliation of earned income from paid employment, and this applies in particular to the low-paid restaurant and service sector, where, in addition to wages, an adjusted daily allowance is applied for, and often also housing allowance and income support, and these are perhaps more laborious processes, both in Kela and in the unemployment fund. It is a good thing that these provisions, too, with regard to the conciliation procedure for unemployment benefit, are now being brought to a close in this context. The amendments to the law on the elimination of the need for labour market support and the inclusion of labour market support are human decisions and can also provide a small relief to many for their daily lives. In addition, paying unemployment benefit without a decision as an advance will facilitate the completely unreasonable workload of the handlers at the moment, both in the unemployment funds and in that Kela. If you then proportionate the cost impact of the legislative package, it is just over 8 million for the state and municipalities. It is little in relation to it in order to facilitate the everyday and livelihood of many homes and unemployed in times of crisis. Good preparation from the government has been taken up in the right way from the point of view of the unemployed and laid-off subsidies, and in particular from the point of view of the processing processes and flexibility of resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u63	Mr President! I will try to be brief and not to touch on the good presentation criteria that the Minister has already mentioned here, and on the other hand, colleagues have made good speeches here, and I will also try not to repeat them, and then, of course, you can ask me what I want to say this time. I want to say two things: The first is very short, and it is precisely the kind of law that needs to be adopted quickly. This is an excellent example of us streamlining and speeding up these processes and making social security in these areas play very well in a difficult situation. The second thing is a little broader and more principled, and it has to do with the fact that often, when we talk about unemployment security, there may be such ideological shades in the debate, that it is easily given to understand that it is now a question of a vessel or the poorest-aid or something like this. I would like to remind you that our social security, which is a very broad package — 70 billion of our 240 billion national economies — is basically divided into two parts: social and health services and then financial benefits. Financial benefits in Finland are mainly based on social insurance, and there are three large groups: pension insurance, of course, which alone already accounts for almost half of this 70 billion social security package, unemployment insurance and health insurance. So, historically, the question is that, at first, the workers, most often those who are professionally organised, have understood that, in the event of a change in economic conditions, it makes sense to insure themselves against a possible threat of unemployment, and, so to speak, at a good time, this guarantee will be collected, which will then be available when the situation is over. Since then, this has expanded to entrepreneurs, as we know, and, for example, Mrs Kauma's speech just mentioned the cashier of Loimaa. But I specifically wanted to point out that this is not a question of charity or help for the poor; it is a question of an insurance-based system created by members of society, a largely professionally organised labour movement, which, in practice, we are now smoothing out with certain procedural changes, so that, even in this difficult situation, it is working as well as possible, namely unemployment insurance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u64	Mr President! Finns are a tough people, and we have overcome a variety of difficulties, and we will also be able to cope with them. The old people have many good wisdom, and one of the most striking is that emergency means come up with. It has been good to see how fast it has been possible to prepare legislation for improvements to the extent that, for example, it has been necessary for entrepreneurs to temporarily suspend their business activities and to move to unemployment benefit without having to drive business down, or how flexibility can be created in our unemployment benefit system, so that families do not run out of money from the account. I would therefore like to thank the government for taking prompt action and, of course, I hope that all the lessons and benefits that can be learned from the good practices that can be learned in such a time of need will also be made available under normal circumstances, where, in the same way, situations such as the need for unemployment benefit for an entrepreneur may arise, and how bureaucratic it is to regard it as to the availability of unemployment benefit for an employee. But thank you to the Minister for promoting this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u65	Mr President! I would like to thank the representatives for a very good debate, and a good debate will always be a good opportunity for the government, as has also been demonstrated in this debate. The chairman of the committee, Mr Vehviläinen, said that this proposal had been prepared in cooperation with the representatives of Kela and the unemployment funds. And it is very important to note that the expertise of the contributors to unemployment benefit, Kela and the cashiers, has been taken into account in their own work and this expertise has also been appreciated when preparing this proposal. The unemployment funds and Kela are also the best experts in organising their own work, and this is also evident from the fact that this has also been identified in this Unemployment Security Act. I would like to say that we will continue to work with the executives on other possible measures for streamlining. Mr Viljanen and many other representatives there said that the timetable is urgent, and it is indeed true in these exceptional circumstances and also poses their own challenges not only to the draftsmen but also here in Parliament to the parliamentarians in the committees. I would like to say that I am delighted with the expertise of the committee and the good cooperation that I am sure we can now make with this proposal as a matter of urgency, that we will be able to get this proposal through. Although there has not yet been any congestion in the processing of applications, it is quite clear that there will unfortunately be more applications, and it is therefore important that we should now also be prepared with these measures to ensure that the payment of benefits will continue to be smoother in the future. On the other hand, of course, we hope that this situation will soon normalise and that the need for lay-offs or lay-offs in this area will no longer be prolonged and, in that respect, we will do what we call unnecessary work. And I can assure you that I would be happy to do this unnecessary work. I really hope that the situation will normalise. I would like to say to Mr Juuso that this government proposal is not tied to these government restrictions, i.e. it will remain in force until the end of October if Parliament decides to do so, and in that respect this proposal can also be used to a great extent in the autumn. Mr Räsänen raised those possible abuses. I note that, according to Kela's reports, there is a very limited number of applications for abuse. And here it works in the same way as it normally does in other preferential payments. Thank you, Mr Kauma, for your encouraging speech, and I would also like to say that the liquidity of the Employment Fund and the funds will be closely monitored and, if necessary, will be responded to with an additional budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-28-ps-63.u66	Mr President! I do not want to prolong this debate at all, but my speech had fallen away from there at an earlier stage. I would like to thank the government for the regulations that have now been adopted to facilitate access to these unemployment benefits. There is a clear desire to streamline this; this situation is chaoticly coming on. And there are difficult situations all the time when these things are congested so enormously, and there must be real bureaucracy, so to speak, even though this is an exceptional situation — we cannot do this in the future. This is also the case with these facilitations of labour market support in the application procedures, including now more and more of these self-employed workers. This is another angle, but in any case it is the same thing that is now being sought for them to make it easier for them to receive labour market support and to receive unemployment benefits. — Thank you for these measures.
