ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-13-ps-23.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-13-ps-23.u2	Mr President! Even though the corona is, if not on the lips, in mind, before presenting the bill, I would remind you that today will be 80 years after the end of the winter war, and in honor of that, 105 candles were lit by schoolchildren, one for each day of honor. I hope this tradition continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-13-ps-23.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-13-ps-23.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-13-ps-23.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-13-ps-23.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-13-ps-23.u7	Mr President! Mr Junnila has made a good and worthy bill and a few clarifications. In fact, when that bill is on that table with the same content, yesterday, however, I rushed to take an initiative to bring down three vasses instead of two vasses with one permit, which would be a quick measure to limit this excessive position. We have just heard the arguments that are necessary in terms of agricultural damage and road safety, and we must respond to them. At the same time, however, it should be noted that we have areas where we could hunt, but it is difficult to hunt in environmental protection areas, even though it is those areas where white-tailed deer often are and cause problems for road safety. Last year over 100,000 euros were reimbursed to agriculture for the damage caused by a white-tailed deer. Perhaps from a slightly different point of view, it is as if Mr Junnila's bill was important and should safeguard the legitimacy of hunting clubs for licence fees. So I fear that if an individual landowner is given a permit monopoly on his own land, that means that it will be a business for its licence fee. Those who manage game or work game are the hunting clubs in the area, and if the permit fee is taken away from them, perhaps the residents or occasional hunters will hunt, but the game management work that can be responded to with the permit fees that can be used to carry out that work would not be subject to the permit fee. Therefore, it would certainly be a good idea for the game management association or circles to issue these permits, but these licence fees would be shared between the land owner and the hunting clubs around the land. This would provide an adequate balance. But, as the representative said in his own legislative initiative, the 500-ha unit is too big for stock management, regulation and should be able to take action quickly to deal with this position. I must say that it would be ecological and desirable for the meat market and, in my view, I am certainly not preventing it, in this form too, from being able to move forward, but if it were so good that this preparation should take account of the fact that this balance could be maintained, because I understand that this type of hunting in a smaller area has been tried in this country, but at that point it fell into the resistance of hunting clubs, precisely because of the fact that the licence fees would be allocated to the owner of that area and not to exploit those hunting clubs in the periphery. Let us hope that this debate will lead to the government taking this into account in any case, and I hope that, in accordance with my initiative for action, we will return to it with one permit, three hammers, which in the past was the case, now that only two vass are available, and this will quickly lead to the adoption of stock management measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-13-ps-23.u8	Mr President! White-tailed deer cause a lot of damage to agriculture, for example, as crop damage and gauze damage and, of course, as seedling damage to forestry. This applies in particular to Varsinais-Suomi, Satakunta and turbulent, but also widely, all of Southern and even Central Finland. As the white-tailed deer's population continues to grow, there will also be an increasing number of road accidents. The growth of the white-tailed deer population must be stopped and the stock cut in dense areas must be cut. The key solution to this is an increase in the number of fishing authorisations. The catch volume of the white tail deer increased by about 15 per cent from the previous period and was again record high. However, only around 77% of the fishing authorisations granted could be used. Mr President! The management of deer populations is based on professionally and responsibly functioning hunting clubs. They also act responsibly in that the number of accidents is minimized when skilled, experienced hunters lead hunting. The risk in implementing the initiative's vision is that our excellent hunting society with a long history is beginning to waver. It is clear that the deer stock must be controlled and the damage caused must be properly compensated. Here I would also like to express my thanks to Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Mr Leppä, for the many measures that have been taken during his ministerial term to remedy the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-13-ps-23.u9	Mr President! When it comes to hunting, I cannot take a position on the debate with any deep sense of experience, but I do greatly appreciate hunting and recognise its importance as a way of life, a hobby, a guardian of biodiversity and a social welfare activity. Hunting is something that nature combines — not to mention the importance of activity, for example, in road safety. According to the estimates of the Natural Resources Agency, there are about 110,000 white-tailed deer in Finland. So the stock has doubled in just over five years. White-tailed deer cause forest damage in Satakunta, Varsinais-Suomi and Häme. Indeed, regional game councils have set a target for cutting deer stock in dense deer areas in southwestern Finland. In addition, the increase in the white-tailed deer's stock results in serious road accidents and near-miss situations. President! Managing deer stock and preventing damage is a very important theme for the city centre. The Centre is committed to ensuring that the populations of deer, deer and deer in our country are kept at a sustainable level, taking into account the damage caused by them. As Mr Kiviranta pointed out in his excellent speech, several measures have been taken by Minister Leppa to promote the management of deer stocks. These include raising the dog’s lucky height, extending hunting periods, increasing the number of permits to record levels, targeting females and so on. Possible new measures will also be considered for the future hunting season. The bill has its merit, but I myself wonder whether it would remove the land area requirement for white-tailed deer. At the very least, it should be examined what its consequences would be for a vital and bottom-up hunting society. President! I would see that the growth of the white-tailed deer population is disrupted and that in the area of density the stock is cut, above all, and above all, by increasing the number of fishing authorisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-13-ps-23.u10	Mr President! Congressman Kivisaari spoke well about how hunting is a great and important hobby and it is worth promoting. It is not only a good hobby but also an in-depth cultivation and preservation of creation, and hunters in our country do a tremendous amount of good work in the field of natural treatment. That is also what this bill is about. The objective of the bill is all very well and well supported, but, as has been pointed out here, it is of course important to assess and clarify its effects. The Centre is committed to ensuring that the populations of deer, deer and deer in our country are kept at a sustainable level and that their damage is taken into account. We can be pleased that we have already taken many good measures to reduce the damage caused by deer animals. Last May, the decree increased the height of the dog driving the deer, and the hunting time for the white-tailed deer has also been extended to September. For my part, I would like to thank Minister Leppää for the good work he has done, as has already been pointed out in this debate, in many ways to remedy and prevent the damage caused by cervids. According to the Ministry, possible new measures will be considered for the coming hunting season. It is clear that we need to be up-to-date in order to avoid damage to both nature and man as far as possible. How this will be put into practice is what this bill will stimulate the necessary debate on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-13-ps-23.u11	Mr President! Of course, the most important thing in this matter is that the lack of permits does not limit hunting, that is, even if some permits are not used, it is not so much a problem. All we need is enough permits. Locally, the damage is huge, which is what deer are doing at the moment. For example, in Pirkanmaa, our municipalities Sastamala, Urjala, Punkalaidun, Water Bay and Akaa are such areas with a very large number of deer stocks. Of course there are accidents, but then, for example, there are certain varieties in farming that cannot be cultivated at all, because deer are going to eat and destroy them. For example, Urjala even has a cemetery fenced on an electric fence to prevent deer from destroying it. So, in itself, this problem, which has now been raised here, is very acute, and we need to look for different solutions. Here, Mr President, we have also raised the issue of hunting. We must make every effort to make sure that we can keep company and have an added hobby. There too, people grow old, grow older, and not necessarily new generations will always be found in the forest. Land rentals, for example, have become a problem in some parts of Finland. In the past there have been heirs or others who rent their territories and perhaps get meat in exchange for it or take part in fools, but then when the ownership goes to companies or elsewhere, there may even be land rents, and then the hobby will no longer succeed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-13-ps-23.u12	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Junnila, for the bill. It is a good thing that hunting issues can be discussed in this Chamber and, with this initiative, also in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, where more has been said about seal hunting. This control over the growth of the white-tailed deer's position is an important issue and measures have been taken. Under the leadership of Minister Leppa, attention has been paid to these additional permits that they should be, of course, not all permits can be used even at the moment. In other words, there is a need to pay attention to encouraging hunting clubs to make use of these permits. Hunting clubs do important work. Just like the representative. Ovaska said, so too should attention be paid to the fact that the new group will also be there at the lowest possible threshold. But the measures that have been taken, among other things, changes have been made to the height of the dogs, changes have been made to the same hunting times. Even in September, you can catch these white-tail deer and that is a very good thing that has been done. In addition, the Game Centre has been given euros to compensate for the acquisition of agricultural and forestry damage prevention material, such damage. These are important measures that have been taken. All in all, the common objective must be to enable sustainable hunting to be carried out in each species of game and to have sufficient fishing permits and to be able to use them. A good initiative for discussion here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-13-ps-23.u13	Now the time for this sitting begins to run out.
