ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-48.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 11/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should be repealed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-48.u2	Mr President! The Constitutional Committee is assessed by a Government decree adopted pursuant to Article 118 of the Emergency Act. The Regulation lays down restrictions on movement to be introduced under exceptional circumstances within the meaning of Article 118 of the Emergency Act. According to Article 2(1) of the Decree, persons other than those in Uusimaa are not allowed to enter the province of Uusimaa and Persons in the province of Uusimaa shall not leave the province of Uusimaa. However, everyone has the right to return to their home or place of residence. Prohibitions shall not apply where mobility is necessary. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the Government's regulation should not be repealed, but nevertheless draws attention to the need to assess from the perspective of fundamental rights the cumulative effects of restrictive measures on society and, in particular, the overall disadvantages of restrictions in relation to their benefits. In any case, the Government must closely monitor the fulfilment of the conditions for the application of the Act on Preparedness and the powers provided for therein, as well as any problems that may arise in the application of the Act. As far as fundamental rights are concerned, the explanatory memorandum does not give much consideration to the disadvantages caused by restrictions on movement, which may also arise for those who remain within the territory of Uusimaa as a result of an increase in the risk of infection. The Committee would also draw particular attention to the need to clarify the importance of mobility restrictions for those affected by them in the light of the spread of the epidemic and the information on the spread, where appropriate, to take specific measures for groups at risk. The committee also stresses the primacy of individual restrictions in relation to the constraint on large numbers. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs draws the attention of the Government to the need for a comprehensive and thorough examination, following the end of these exceptional circumstances, of the regulation of exceptional circumstances in the Constitution and in the Emergency Act. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-48.u3	Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and its chairman, Mr Ojala-Niemela, for their good and thorough work. This restriction on intra-country mobility has certainly not been introduced by the Government in light terms, but we are facing the greatest crisis of the post-war period. Finnish society is perhaps the best prepared societies in the world to face different kinds of crises, and we have not only direct preparedness and readiness but also a social resilience that will help us to face these difficulties that are clearly coming before us in the coming months. Mr President! However, here I would like to appeal to all those who can make a difference — in particular the Yleisradio with its own programme choices — that, as we Finns now have two sides of the roadblock, we would try to face this national exceptional situation as a united people as far as possible. And in this respect, for example, television programming and so on could take into account shared experiences of nation and spirit, such as major Finnish sports victories or similar. For example, I think that these special broadcasts, which have already been on the Sports Screen, have been well received. Mr President! With regard to this same theme, I would also like to point out that there was a very wise solution from the Council of State, particularly because of this epidemic, of course, but also because everyone feels that we are now facing this crisis together, that the restaurants will now really be closed down at midnight in the whole country, and that in Uusimaa, for example, the restaurants would have closed down, but even if Kainuu — of course, there are only a few of these cases of the virus — the garrison could have gone to the restaurant for a long night. So it is important that, now that we really are on two sides of the roadblock, care is taken to ensure that the nation faces this serious situation facing us with real unity. The last point of view, Mr President, is that when we have also been concerned about the development of our neighbouring country Sweden in terms of the disease situation and when Sweden may not be able, either because of legislation or for reasons of social policy, to take strong restrictive measures in a similar way to what has now been taken in Finland to prevent the spread of the virus, for example, there is a great deal of concern in Lapland as to whether the fast-spread transmission chains in Sweden can reach Finland now, and this is certainly a question to which a sustainable solution must be found quickly by the Government. But I would also like to bring to this debate, Mr President, the very human aspect of the fact that there is an absolutely limitless border along the river Tornio — a border that has never really been a border. Of course, it has existed on the map for the last 200 years, but it has always been crossed, and the same families, the same families, the same residents — also on the Swedish side, speak Finnish and are Finnish people. In this respect, it is very difficult to come to a categorical solution which could lead to a breakdown in the operational capacity of essential health care and medical services on the Swedish side, for example, if Finland does not get to work there. And I do not know whether it is entirely inappropriate to suggest that the Finnish State could appeal to the Swedish State to restrict its internal movement so that, when this part of the Finnish border, for example, relies now on services under critical pressure in social and health care in Finland, perhaps even more than it relies on, for example, in southern Sweden, these transmission chains would then not be able to reach it right near the Finnish border, and they would then not bring the virus to Finland in the transport that is necessary in everyday life. In any case, it is quite clear that the fast-spread transmission chains in Sweden, especially the transmission chains in their capital region, must not extend all the way to Lapland in Finland, because the healthcare capacity of Finland's Lapland is so small. That is why, for example, this closure of Uusimaa has been made here on Finland's side that this extension of the transmission chains must be cut off. That is what I wanted to bring to mind, Mr President. I know it is not in our power, but can we appeal to the Swedes and talk about their reaction to the situation? I can't say, but we have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-03-ps-48.u4	Mr President! This crisis poses challenges to the Finnish decision-making system in many ways, and we are not alone in this, but a situation that every country in the world is facing at the moment. There are some similar features of the crisis with other crises, such as a state of war or a major disaster, but there are also a lot of specific circumstances, which are linked to a pandemic, and what is now absolutely recognised is that such conditions should be taken into account more closely in legislation. The security threats of the future are not just traditional threats of a state of war, but it is precisely these pandemics and other types of time-like threats that will certainly become more and more widespread, and that is why legislation needs to be developed. But now we are operating on the basis of the legislation we have, and we are trying to find the solutions that can best protect the lives and health of Finns. That is why we need to remember all the time when we are considering the right legal means, the goal, the safeguarding of people's lives, and that is why we need to look for those flexible solutions and, at the same time, we need to see how the legislation should be updated, so that the next time Finland faces a situation that is different from previous situations, for example, we are better prepared for it. This is particularly the case in the case of the Emergency Act, where it is clearly still evident that many parts of it have been written more from the point of view of a state of war than from the point of view of such a pandemic. One particular feature that is now at the heart of this, especially when we talk about serious restrictions on movement and other fundamental rights such as the closure of Uusimaa, is the need for anticipation. Where, in the middle of a war or in the event of a disaster, it may be quite clear what the correct guideline is, which is the area where the crisis has been targeted, the prevention of a pandemic requires constant anticipation. We must try to collect information as quickly as possible, but we must also anticipate it on the basis of what should happen. It has now been recognised that Uusimaa is an epidemic centre: 60% Finnish corona infections are here. If we look at the number of patients still in hospital, there are 111 in the HYKS area and then in the next most heavily burdened area in the Kuopio region, only 17. The difference between Uusimaa and the rest of the country is therefore still truly shocking. But then, when we discuss a ban on restaurants, for example, it is well recognised that even in spite of this restriction on movement, this epidemic is bound to spread in Finland — and it is spreading, unfortunately, elsewhere in the country already. And now the special feature is that such an epidemic is spreading clumsily: even if 90 percent of people in a locality restrict their activities and restrict their contacts, the mistakes of one or two people can lead to the sudden spread of the epidemic in the village. That is why such large - scale restrictions are now needed to safeguard people’s lives and health — especially where hospitalization is less accessible than, for example, in the vicinity of large cities and hospitals. That is why it has now been identified that, although it can be predicted that the disease will spread throughout the country, it can also be predicted what is difficult to predict, that is, where exactly those clusters will settle, that crisis is at its worst here in Uusimaa, and therefore the prevention of the spread of the disease has required such restrictions. And here we really are balancing the boundaries of many areas of information. Few of us are experts in medicine and fundamental rights as well as in logistics, but now all this information is needed in order to save the lives of Finns, and that is why we politicians have a lot of indoor numbers in front of us so that we can manage this country in the best possible way. Surely, here we are learning about this new disease all the time — we can also identify what may have been the kind of measures that could have been better worked on, and that will allow us to work on that Finnish strategy and line together, so that we can be sure when we go towards the future and towards the peak of the disease likely to occur in May and June, that strategy will be as diamond as it is and can and we can be sure that we will prevent the spread of the disease and the threat to human life and health as effectively as possible. But really, it requires constant rapid response, the use of vast expertise and extensive cooperation, because otherwise we will not be able to cope with this – this is such a unique crisis in relation to anything that humanity has encountered before, and there are not many international examples, for example, which could be taken as a direct example, because Finland, however, in many ways is different from those countries in South Asia, where solutions that are appropriate to them could be made. Now we really are calling for the use and anticipation of extensive information, and then we can come back to what parts of the legislation need to be refined, but now we are going to go through this legislation and try to make the best possible solutions to save people's lives.
