ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u1	I would like to say that we must be prepared today to hold several plenary sessions after this sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u2	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 2/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The report is presented by the chairman of the committee, Mr Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u3	Mr President! After all, this is one part of the social partners' corona package. This bill would reduce the period of lay-off notice from 14 to 5 days, to 6 weeks for lay-off or from 14 to 5 days, and would also allow for temporary lay-off and a trial-out on economic and production grounds. It is a matter of far-reaching changes to workers' rights, which will then be balanced by other laws, both by the second government proposal that will be discussed later today and by the proposal that will hopefully be discussed next week. This bill, which is now under discussion, does not apply to all employers because, in any case, these changes are behind collective bargaining autonomy and, according to the TES, they go. It is now known that the majority of the labour market has already made the necessary changes to the TES, or is making them, but it is clear that not all sectors will be able to do this. The committee did not consider this situation appropriate, but did not consider it necessary to intervene in collective bargaining autonomy in any way in this situation. The committee drew attention to the fact that, when it comes to such a fragmented package of changes and very technical issues, we should particularly stress the need for information so that we do not create enormous uncertainty in the labour market at a time when the blocks are already in strong motion. In addition to this, the Committee would draw particular attention to the fact that when a trial period is to be completed on economic and production grounds, the worker should be able to receive this termination in writing because it may be relevant for his subsequent employment. And the bill is temporary, which will properly limit its impact. It will be valid until the end of June.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u4	When there are these pre-requested speeches which are not yet in the system, I would like to ask whether they have been withdrawn. Has Congressman Holopainen cancelled or what? He's canceled. Congressman Lehto has canceled? Okay. — Representative Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u5	Mr President! I think that the previous representative has made a good speech on these grounds and, in view of the exceptional circumstances in which we live, I should like to thank the social partners, in this situation, for working together on this government proposal and for agreeing on such exceptions to labour law. When you look at these details, these are not just necessary in this situation but are actually necessary. In many situations, the company’s cash flow and demand for products and services may have suddenly completely collapsed. If, as we have here, our objective is that no healthy Finnish company should go bankrupt in this crisis, then we must create tools for them to react and quickly lay off, even if it is not anyone's goal. Similarly, society will come up against these special days. With regard to this probationary period or, in fact, more than that, temporary employment can also be laid off: This is extremely important, especially for sectors with seasonal workers. It may therefore be the case that there are full-time employees who have worked in the company for an indefinite period and have been in the company for years, and then there have been seasonal workers, and now in this situation, if there were no such provision, these fixed-term employees who have been employed for a few months, for example in the spring season in the tourism industry, could not be laid off, but these fixed-term long-term contracts should be laid off in this situation, and that would of course not be a reasonable outcome. This example also shows that these provisions are necessary and necessary in this situation, and yet a well-balanced package has been sought from the perspective of the whole, also taking into account the rights of the worker and the security of his livelihood. I think it is a good proposal and a good one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u6	Mr President! We are currently in a very serious situation in society, and I'm sure each of us has e-mails full of different queries: What do I do? I'm a sole entrepreneur. Where can I contact you? Is this about me? Do I have to go to work? Where do I get my income? What to do? At the same time, municipalities have been in financial distress for a long time. There has been a great deal of talk about this in this Chamber before this dreadful situation and state of emergency, and we are many municipal decision-makers and there, as employers and employers' representatives, we wonder how we can balance the economy. Now this interest has also come on the shoulders of municipalities acting as employers, and municipalities do a lot of good statutory work in school, cleaning, social welfare and health care, environmental health care and many others. This is the right package for private companies — much more needs to be done — but, in fact, I am a little annoyed that there are no ministers here who I could have asked what the situation is with the municipalities. There is already a great deal of wrestling with lay-offs, with redundancies, and we are thinking about balancing the economy, and now this came on. Municipalities are a huge employer reserve. It is a shame that the Minister is not here. I do not know whether there are any new readings here when it was hoped that the ministers would be more present, especially in this exceptional state, if the public were to look at these referrals and feedback debates. There are a lot of good solutions here, and I hope that this will pass very quickly. As far as I am concerned, I hope that I will be able to answer all the questions that you citizens are sending out. I hope everyone will follow the instructions and everything. Our sessions will continue for a long time today. I would like to thank the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities for its quick and good work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u7	Ministers have been asked to be especially present during referrals. It would, of course, be desirable now, but the Council of State has an extraordinary session at 16.30.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u8	Mr President! All of this is an important legislative proposal, and it is very good that the social partners were able to make very quickly decisions that can significantly shorten both the period of lay-off and then the time for the negotiations to take place to this five days. This will save businesses, even if it is not the only thing, there are many other concerns in addition to this. On the labour side, this is a key issue for businesses, but this is also a key issue for employees, because it is much more likely that when you can quickly lay off, the company will still be alive after this crisis. Then the workers will also have a job, so this has been done in a sensible way. The essential thing about this, of course, although it is not in this bill, is that when the employer can lay off more quickly, then the lay-off also receives a lay-off allowance, which is a fair solution on both sides. Moreover, this has improved the position of workers in relation to unemployment security, which is then the next point. Mr President! However, I would like to say that the Assembly has objected to this motion, one of its points, which is not only of principle but also of practical significance. It has to do with the fact that this whole law is subordinate to TES, i.e. only if the TES mention a time or have been defined, which is the minimum period that must be used, for example, before layoffs, and if that time has not been fixed for this five days, then we will follow the longer period in TES. Now the committee has been informed that perhaps 80 to 90 % of TES has been changed over this five-day period, and of course it has been a good move, but it is quite extraordinary that companies and employees are in a different position, depending on the sector in which they operate and whether changes have been made to TES or not. It is in itself a good thing that organised and non-organised companies are now in the same position, but this is a matter of principle so important that, in such an exceptional situation, the law should take precedence over these collective agreements, and then this would have been quite clear and would also correspond to the information provided by the ministers here that this applies to all companies. There will now be some situations in which this right to more rapid lay-off will not actually happen. We do not yet know what they are, because the negotiations are still in progress, perhaps we will find out next week, but in any case we will be faced with such things. Mr President! However, I am not here to activate this objection, but on Monday, at second reading, we will come forward with an effort of the same content, in which we will then make this point. Mr President! At the end of the day: I also think it is important not only that this allows for faster lay-offs, but also that temporary workers can be laid off exceptionally, because demand has completely collapsed in many places, and that it is important, and not only for those who are on probation, but also for those who are on probation, for productive and economic reasons. So all these things are important and this proposal must be supported to the greatest extent, apart from this one detail which we believe should have been done in a different, more equal way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u9	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Kontula, the chairman of the committee, for his intensive presentation. When we talk about collective agreements and also about maritime work, and in that speech Mr Satonen referred to layoffs, the intention was to ask the Minister, but perhaps the chairman of the committee will be able to answer the question. Now it is the case that 2,500 Finnish sailors are laid off. At the same time, the Finnish Security of Supply Centre supports and the Government's decisions support foreign shipowners, and Finnish shipowners will remain in ports at the beginning of April and these persons will then be laid off. Has there been a debate in committee on this point, including on this issue and on how these Finnish sailors could be able to secure security of supply, or is it really the case that we are at the mercy of foreign companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u10	Mr President! Here Mr Satonen gave a good and worthy speech, to which it would be good to continue. This government proposal, which came before the committee, is very important in the sense that we know that at the moment hundreds and thousands of Finnish companies are in deep difficulties with this corona crisis because of the reasons for which they have not been in their own hands, and it is vitally important and wonderful that the labour market organisations have found together, very quickly, the means to bring flexibility to this situation, so that hopefully as many companies as possible can overcome this situation and hopefully also secure the jobs of a possible number of Finnish people. Mr. Speaker! I would like to draw attention to the very same point raised here by Mr Satonen. The government proposal therefore proposed a reduction in the notice period to five days, and I also see that employers and employees should be treated in the same way in this respect. I think it is well founded that in this respect the law goes beyond the collective agreement — although this is the case with what we have been told in committee, that, in practice, particularly in large areas, this issue has already been agreed on in collective agreements, but nevertheless it is clear that we will very likely be left with this kind of arbitrage, areas for which in practice this shorter notice period cannot be agreed upon. I think that is contrary to this spirit, and that is why I also see that in practice the law should go beyond the collective agreement in this regard. Mr. Speaker! For the most part, the package is very welcome. I can see that it is fair for the employee and the employer. However, I think that this is a common goal: to save Finnish jobs and to ensure that we do not face a major wave of bankruptcy this spring, which some financial experts have anticipated for us. In this respect, these measures, which are now being proposed here, are very necessary and, in general, very welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u11	Mr President! The need for this proposal has been stated here on several occasions. Indeed, the Government has repeatedly suggested that the reduction in the withdrawal period for the lay-off notice in this context applies to all companies. It will then mean all companies in all sectors, and this is clearly not the case in this proposal. I do not think that the government's previous announcements of this are being made. Representative Markus Salmon here thanked the social partners for having agreed on exceptional arrangements. However, there must be a precise constitution in this Chamber. The organisations have not agreed on any legislation at all and cannot agree, of course. The power and responsibility of the legislation in this Chamber — fortunately so. The organisations may have agreed on proposals for this hall, and this hall decides, this hall has a responsibility. The facilitation of lay-off does not therefore apply to all companies. We do not yet know whether this is a major problem, but this is not just a matter of principle. It should be noted that this is also an information issue for many small businesses. I think there are over 300 collective agreements in Finland, and a small entrepreneur cannot always know what collective agreements apply or what they provide for. It is also misleading in this context to talk about the lack of contractual autonomy, because all mandatory legislation is always the absence of contractual autonomy. The government proposal states that, in this situation, there is no desire to exceed collective agreements. It's almost a silly statement, because I'm sure there can be no more obvious state of emergency in the kingdom. That is why I believe that the objection made by the members of the committee of the delegation is most justified, although this proposal by the government itself deserves praise otherwise. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u12	Mr President! I don't think any of us would have guessed what kind of coronaphan sweeps the earth. If you think about last fall, no one thought about this whole different world, which is now. Well, that is why the social partners' organisations will come up with a joint proposal for measures to reduce the cost of employment, make labour law more flexible and improve social security for workers who are unemployed and laid off. This proposal is now one part of it, and this allows for more rapid lay-off and also for temporary lay-off. After all, no company would want to lay off, since it knows that the company does not produce as much as it does when there are all the workers doing and the businesses are moving forward, but now this corona crisis has caused the economy to be quite stagnant and many companies are now experiencing a cash crisis. And this now leads to these measures being taken and is now trying to keep companies up. Everyone remembers from the recession in the '90s what happened when those companies fell — we still see their consequences. Let us hope that these measures will now bring about no terrible tragedies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u13	Mr President! This is a good proposal, and a good one has been said in that committee, in the report, in this regard. I would also like to thank Mr Sato for the fact that this actual activation does not happen here. Now we are in the midst of a crisis, and the government will, of course, do its utmost and equally with the support of the opposition, in order to intervene quickly and also to improve and guarantee people's livelihood. But this is a big question of principle, and I think Mr Vartiainen made it very clear. This applies to the whole of the contractual society, and I personally think that this fundamental debate may not be something we want to have at this stage, and perhaps that is why that activation has not taken place. But I must say personally that I am very much in line with Vartiainen: yes, this house is the one who decides. So I believe that these things will come up at some point, but now we are going to go on this basis and, together with the opposition, we will do everything we can to ensure that this country manages and moves forward even after this crisis. I would like to conclude by saying that, on the other hand, this is also an indication that this contractual society is working too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u14	Mr. Speaker! This report under discussion relates to this huge economic shock caused by the so-called corona virus, the COVID-19, which Finland has also faced in connection with all other countries in the world. In practice, many companies have run out of their own business if not overnight in as many days as cutting with a knife. Now we are struggling to save as many Finnish companies as possible and, above all, as many Finnish people as possible. In this context, the legislative proposal now before us and the accompanying report, which is now on the table, are intended to facilitate the lay-off of people, to enable people to be laid off more quickly and also to be laid off on fixed-term contracts. I would like to thank the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities for the very constructive handling of this matter and for the very prompt handling of this matter. I would say that one of the most important things in this proposal is that this is now going through this Parliament and this mill as quickly as possible, so that we can take care of those entrepreneurs and workers. A layoff slip is always a sad moment in life. It's a bad day, but layoff day is a better day than the day you get fired and your own company or your own job goes bankrupt. You have to remember that. It is better to lay off than to lay off, and the worst is that if you go to a liquidity bank in principle, because of the cash crisis, because of such a sudden illness. Perhaps I will say again, Mr President, that this proposal is certainly not perfect. I know that there is hope for retroactive legislation in small businesses on the ground. There are a number of sectors which are not affected by this, as has perhaps been the case in the previous speeches, perhaps the strongest in the contributions from the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. But most importantly, it is quick to facilitate lay-off and it is possible to help entrepreneurs and businesses to keep people on leave rather than to have no job and be laid off. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say to this end that here Mr Meri recently mentioned the role of the municipalities and the way in which this crisis continues. That is the way it has to be done in order to deal with the economic crisis of this interest rate. I think the first step is that we must be able to save these attempts. It saves businesses by loosening the legislation, which is what we are talking about, loosening it, or giving subsidies to businesses, which we discussed yesterday in the context of the amending budget, and then, as the next item, we have here in the order of day, an improvement in unemployment security, in which case the State will help those laid-off people. In my opinion, once the business field has been completed, we need to start managing municipalities, thinking about increases in state shares, and then in a couple of years' time, this hall will be thinking about how the Finnish economy will be managed after this pandemic has been suppressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u15	Mr President! This proposal is indeed necessary, and it is urgent. For my part, too, I would like to thank the committee for its swift and proper handling of this. It must also be said that the labour market organisations deserve to be commended and noted here that they have been able to submit a joint proposal to the government in this regard. It is indeed important that what can be done is now done to save businesses. It is also important for workers to be able to rely, to the greatest extent possible, on these layoffs, but it has to be said that this proposal, too, unfortunately, will not be able to deal with the situation which is threatening and facing companies as a whole. In any case, everything that can be done must be done. These observations, raised in the objection to the Assembly, that not all sectors are involved, are appropriate. I personally would welcome the idea if Parliament could accept this effort when it is brought here at second reading. I drew attention to the fact that these laws are in force until 30 June. There have been very different dates and deadlines for these laws. Of course, with regard to this legislation, it is certainly justified that this goes on for some time longer than these other dates, but perhaps some confusion about these very different dates can also arise precisely in terms of what it is, as it were, an estimate of how long this crisis and the exceptional situation will last.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u16	Mr President! Representative Junnila's question: There has been no discussion in committee about the link between security of supply measures and the Finnish lay-off situation. This is a question of EU state aid rules, and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy notifies these subsidies to the EU Commission, and it is not really within the remit of the committee. Then a few words on this question of bypassing collective autonomy or moving away from it at this point. Now we need to identify the situation. We are in a social situation in which we are facing a very fast-moving crisis in which we need swift, wise and effective action at short notice. That is why the social partners have presented us with a package in which they have set out the proposals that they consider to be easily placed on the labour market at short notice, so that it does not give rise to a big bubble at any point. Although Mr Vartiainen is quite right — what is laid down in the law is laid down in this house, not between the social partners — it is good to recognise these realities there in the background. If we were to go out and play with collective autonomy, it would require a much longer legislative process and would not be able to reach the first and perhaps not even the second wave of the interest rate. Given that we already know that a significant part of the labour market has been introduced by these changes, which are specifically designed to prevent the emergence of more extensive social impacts, not to safeguard the rights of individual companies, there has been no evidence of its appropriateness in relation to the management of this crisis. Mr Vartiainen pointed out here as one of the arguments that small companies do not know their collective agreements and therefore this is difficult to implement. It is quite true, and this committee also pointed out in its report that information in this situation is certainly challenging, but I cannot fail to point out here that, according to Article 4 of the Employment Contracts Act, if an employer has employed an employee for an indefinite period or for more than a month, he must at the latest provide the employee with information on the conditions of employment which include the applicable collective agreement. In other words, if the entrepreneur does not know what collective agreement should apply, he should not hire employees, and this legislation does not apply to his business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u17	Mr President! In my opinion, this so-called labour market association package shows that our labour market organisations are very pragmatic. When there is an emergency, we look for practical solutions and find solutions that treat workers and entrepreneurs equally, so that collective employment can be saved, and if we get involved in things that are ideological, then the discussions go into the jumble and there is no quick solution. We disagree on how to resolve these ideological issues, but I think it is quite right that, when we need rapid instruments, we should use those in which we can find that agreement, and this corona package is a good example of that. But when the question was asked about this security of supply aid for shipping, which emerged in the debate, one might say that it is also a question of interest rate and that when passenger traffic is not working, it must safeguard freight transport. We are talking about food, we are talking about medicines, we are talking about a lot of vital issues, and that is why the Security of Supply Agency has granted this support. It is not just for foreign companies, but it involves five companies under the Finnish flag, one under the Swedish flag and one under the Estonian flag, and it works in such a way that this aid covers the unreligibility of this shipping when people do not move but the goods must be moved. This is in line with EU rules, therefore it has been done as it is, but it is also possible to recover it at a later stage if it turns out that profitability would have existed without this aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u18	Mr President! Thank you to the committee for your good work. Of course, it is not perfect at this time, as Mrs Satonen has said, but it is her own problem. I understand the point of view of both sides. Of course, the situation should be balanced for all operators, for all companies — hopefully there will still be solutions. In this context, I cannot ignore the situation that companies are facing. Senate real estate today announced that they give companies up to 100% discount on rent separately, and now the practices of municipalities vary very strongly in how different municipalities deal with companies. I would like to see some coordination. Whether it is a municipal union that recommends municipalities, or what it is, but companies are really tough, and there is not much need to come from there to make a promise or receive, which may determine whether the entrepreneur wants to even try to continue with a) the company's life and, in the worst case, even b) his own life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u19	Mr President! Mr Kiuru’s speech — even if it may go a little further than that — must be continued. It is quite true that companies have much more to worry about than this staff issue at the moment. If the turnover has completely collapsed, it is a very big matter of rent. It would be very important for these big landlords in particular to meet us. To return to this matter of employment contracts, I understand that this can also be seen as a matter of principle. For some time now I also see it from the point of view that, when this agreement has been concluded at the level of organisations and at the level of central organisations, it seems to me quite unreasonable that there should then be some unions which do not, as it were, agree to make the decision that has been taken at the level of the central organisations. These few alliances — I don’t know what they are this time, maybe you could guess what might be there — in any case take a bit of the bottom off the whole system. That is why I think it would be quite good if, in a situation like this, when it comes to exceptional circumstances, this law were to go beyond that. Then it would be self-evident that it applies to everyone. I understand that when it comes to normal legislation, it may be justified for the TES to go beyond these points of view that the situation in the sectors may be different, but it is now the case that this situation affects almost everyone. It would be very clear then that we are going to have common rules of the game.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u20	Mr President! Mr Kontula here called for the most effective measures to rapidly change the rules of working life throughout this crisis. Well, of course, the most effective way to do that is to lay down a law that applies to everyone. It is quite ridiculous to think that there was a need for longer preparation in this context for the article to be written in the manner proposed by the Assembly. It is also somewhat unbelievable that, in such a situation, there would have been significant industrial battles on this issue. The representative, Mr Filatov, somehow wanted to ideologize this question. Well, if it is ideologised, this is now an ideological solution in the same spirit, in the spirit of the same ideology, which has for years, for example, been discriminated against against non-organisational companies, and has been tried to make them more difficult simply because it would be attractive to organise in Finland. This clearly shows some desire to hold onto an ideology quite firmly even if it causes a clearly unequal situation between different companies. Congressman Kontula here lectured and lectured companies on what they should know. Business is quite demanding, and I would recommend that Mr Kontula take a look at the everyday lives of many small entrepreneurs: it is not always that easy. You think that you should know, not everyone knows, but they still produce well-being and value added for themselves, for their employees and through tax revenues for everyone else. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u21	Mr Vartiainen, I am sure that your previous speech did not mean that entrepreneurs should not be required to identify well-established and long-standing provisions at the very heart of their employer's obligations. If we are talking about the employment contract law and its application, which has not changed at its core for decades, and if Mr Vartiainen is of the opinion that entrepreneurs cannot be required to survive this, then we will be in a world where, as a matter of fact, laws are being enacted in the labour market. It is not an exceptional little communist, but a general law that applies to all employers has been at issue for as long as we have had this type of social system in place. With regard to whether the model presented by the Coalition Party could have been handled as peacefully as this path now chosen, we have the Ministry’s assessment that it would have been a question of a lack of collective autonomy guaranteed by the Constitution. Since the collective bargaining method is faster in this context and the proposal as a whole is based on a joint proposal from the social partners to the government, the proposed arrangement was considered justified. And this memorandum, which is now a few days ago, estimates that already at that point 80% of the labour market would have changed its collective agreement to reflect this regulation, and at that point negotiations were still in progress in many areas. Indeed, there were individual areas, such as the pharmacists, who felt that in this corona crisis they did not have such a risk of lay-off that they would be in favour of taking these changes to the collective agreement, and that was why it had already been decided not to do so, but, in general, this is becoming a very comprehensive package.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u22	Mr President! But there is nothing to remove the fact that the government has said that this change applies to all companies and now it will not do so. There is a clear contradiction here between what the government has said it is doing and what is happening here. That is not changed by any beautiful speech in this Chamber. In addition to these collective agreements and business fields: if you could get to know the everyday life of business, companies come and go all the time. Even the collective agreement field lives: There are, if I remember correctly, more than 300 collective agreements. Many companies are involved in many contracts and there are ongoing legal disputes over which agreement is applicable to which issue. How that government proposal is written is different from how it is judged in this house. In other words, I believe that this course of action, in line with the opposition of the Assembly, would have been extremely well founded. Of course, in the government's proposal it is written in a favourable way to the government, but it has become obvious here that the equal treatment of companies was not at present of interest to the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u23	Let's move on to detailed reading. The amendments are now being discussed. No amendments have been tabled. That concludes the detailed examination.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u24	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 3/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u25	Mr President! Continue this package of interest rates for the social partners, which is the government's proposal on the right to lay-off unemployment benefit through a lighter treatment than usual. The purpose of the proposal is to ensure timely payment of unemployment benefit, which is, of course, at present threatened by a significant and rapid increase in lay-offs, but which may also be threatened in the future by the staff of the TE Offices. In other words, in this situation, we are trying to ease red tape so that everyone gets their unemployment benefits within a reasonable period of time, so that no one gets into an unreasonable situation. The draft law has been proposed on a provisional basis until the end of July. Well, it was hoped from the social partners that all these elements of the corona package would be of the same duration. However, this proposal has been submitted for a period longer than one month, even after July, due to the fact that the Ministry is still concerned about the adequacy of the resources of the Employment and Economic Development Offices in July and anticipates that it would take longer than this extension is necessary to eliminate congestion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u26	Mr President! Such reliefs are indeed now necessary. Now if you are laid off, you do not need to interrupt your studies or business activities. I would have liked to ask the chairman of the committee and other members of the committee and those who are familiar with it what ideas exist as to whether it is also possible to start studies freely during lay-off and unemployment benefit. Now there is a situation in which we have a huge number of people laid off for a very exceptional reason, which is not due to people's own activity. There is also a very exceptional situation where people are in quarantine at home in practice for a very large part of their time, and some people would have the opportunity to undertake studies. It is important if this crisis is likely to last for quite a long time, that we do not despair and that we really have opportunities to complement our own skills through studies. Very many educational institutions have effective online courses, universities have online courses. Now I noticed, for example, that the University of Helsinki has opened such an open series of online courses on the economic and corona crisis, and they are certainly interesting, but I believe that people would also have the motivation to get someone involved in the course of a corona crisis that might last months or even longer. Layoffs, unemployment, can also last longer. I think it is very important that we should be prepared at the time of the end of this crisis, and we recognise that we have areas where full employment existed before the corona crisis, and we have areas where full employment still exists. In the health sector in particular, there may be a shortage of labour. How will we be very flexible in ensuring additional training opportunities for laboratories and other health care, for example, and for all the areas necessary for these areas, where additional staff are also needed? Indeed, in view of this explosion of unemployment and the number of laid-off people, it would really be necessary to consider how we can get people access to further training without preventing this, and how it would indeed be possible during the period of unemployment security and lay-off very freely. We know that, before and after this crisis, most jobs will be created in areas where higher education is needed. We have an objective in the Government Programme to increase the proportion of young people with higher education, and this is something which we should certainly pursue now, in the light of the very exceptional situation caused by this crisis, in which people have no work to do and no work, at least some people. If there is no family, no children to care for, then there may indeed be an opportunity, in the absence of a job, to study a certain field, that is code, that is, that is, what has really been lacking in labour, and that is how we will be a more sustainable society when we get out of this crisis. Has such a debate taken place in committee? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u27	Mr President! For laid-off income, it is important that the laid-off person receives unemployment benefit from this lay-off period without undue delay. According to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, there are 260,000 people involved in the negotiations on the corona virus situation and then, given that this figure does not include enterprises employing less than 20 persons, it is currently estimated that there are around 350,000 to 400,000 people on lay-offs and that the whole time will increase. The aim of the present proposal is therefore to support the survival of TE Offices from the congested handling of unemployment security cases for laid-off job seekers and, above all, to secure the prompt handling of unemployment security cases for laid-off job seekers. It is not in any way desirable for unemployment benefits to come late and have to wait for them, and then many families and people will have to resort, for example, to speed-ups to get the economy running. Not everyone has any savings, has not been able to save because of their income. Then we get caught up in a quick-wipe spiral, and then when we get those unemployment benefits a lot late, they go to the quick-wipe payment and there comes that twist there. We must do everything we can to secure a livelihood for those who are laid off, that they do not have to wait long.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u28	Mr President! It is good to pick up on what Mrs Lehto decided. This is indeed important that these laid-off people should receive lay-off allowance as soon as possible, because it is absolutely central to their livelihood. It is also very important that it is now possible for the lay-off person to have access to both business activities and studies. Of course, in this situation too, there is certainly another realistic alternative for laid-off workers to be employed in completely different jobs than they have been in the past. I believe that if this corona virus gets even worse, then it will probably also be necessary in the health sector to help those who are not professionals in this field in their assisting duties. Then we already know that, especially in agriculture, there is a very challenging situation because the labour force from abroad cannot get here. This is particularly true for horticultural and berry farming, but also for agriculture in general. If and now we are left on leave with people who, however, also have knowledge in the agricultural sector, then it would be extremely important to have this workforce in the agricultural sector, and it is appropriate to do so at the time of the spring work, that is to say, this would also coincide with the time and, of course, make it easier for people who, rather than lay off, would be temporarily able to work elsewhere, and perhaps after this crisis is over, to return to their original job.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u29	Mr. Speaker! This amendment to the Unemployment Security Act, which is being discussed, relates precisely to the increase in the right to lay-off for companies and to the reduction of the regulatory burden on how to lay off people in an employment relationship, as discussed in the previous paragraph of the order of precedence. This is the symmetry built between these two presentations, which we have discussed in good cooperation with President Anna Kontula and Arto Satose — with other good members of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, also Mrs Lehto is present. We have dealt with both these proposals in good agreement at a very rapid pace, and they are linked together; they are linked to dealing with the enormous economic crisis caused by this COVID-19 epidemic. It is, President-in-Office, a well-founded idea that, given the opportunity for companies to lay off more easily and the protection of workers in this respect will be reduced, then his unemployment benefit will slightly improve his social security. This amendment of the law is in the same way fixed until next summer, as was the amendment of the Employment Contracts Act and the Maritime Contracts Act and others. President! I cannot help but point out to Mr Satonen that we must also think in a completely new way at every level, on the public side, certainly in terms of health care, in the business world, in particular there farms, fur houses, the production of berries, berry picking and then, quite individually and in the TE Offices, in a new way, that we have had for years, I would say straight away, this kind of perverted situation, that at the same time we have high unemployment and that we have such areas of primary production — in fact we are almost all beginning to have more productions — which do not run without posted labour and without foreign labour, and of course it is a very special situation and it is telling us that something in our society has already broken down in the past. Yes, we must now build a model in which we can now get laid off or even redundant people who have completely lost their jobs in this society into sectors where there is a shortage of labour and for which we may not be able to get seasonal workers in the same way. In other words, models need to be found, and the best solution is not that the person who has been laid off because of this economic crisis is now on unemployment benefit, even though improving unemployment benefit is in order. What is more, President, I say that, while we are now dealing with the second day — for the first time, there will be many of those days for this Parliament — this package, the management of the economic crisis in relation to this virus, the pandemic, we must build a chain here that we must be able to rescue all healthy businesses, healthy businesses whose business would otherwise be profitable if these restrictions on movement and borders had not been imposed. Then we must help those people who are now being laid off, perhaps lay off, provide them with support, services, many kinds of assistance, and then begin to assess, certainly even during the spring, the situation in the municipalities. This also causes huge problems for the municipal economy. Let's put some extra shots in there. Once this chain is in order — companies, employees, municipalities — then we will see in a couple of years what the state of Finland is in. I'm sure it's going to be a tough exercise and a project, and I'm guessing that all the ideas that are represented in this room will still be able to get involved in what's going on in the new world of the Finnish economy after this corona pandemic has subsided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u30	Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen have made excellent speeches on this subject, but just a few brief comments on this point. First of all, on this whole. As the honourable Members have already pointed out, this is a whole, and I think it is very well founded that, in this situation — Mrs Lehto has pointed out these figures, what we know at the moment about the number of workers under lay-off or the threat of lay-off and how these figures have developed over the last few days — we are also going to go through these procedures at the same time and try to ensure that these people, who are now going to miss work, will also be able to get help in this situation as quickly as possible and that, in practice, our legislation will also make it possible. In that respect, this proposal is very good and well-founded. Mr. Speaker! With regard to this same theme, I would like to draw attention to the issue of our unemployment security expenditure in general and this situation. I drew attention to the contribution of the Employment Fund to their situation a few days ago. We know that the Employment Fund has been able to collect its cyclical buffers almost full, which is of course a good support in the sense that when unemployment has been very low it has then been possible to reduce the level of unemployment insurance contributions and gradually to collect it again for these weaker, worse times. Now that this kind of situation has come forward, then again this buffer can then be used to pay for these benefits. However, I doubt that, if these figures are realised in what has been said in the debate today, then there will also be very serious challenges in relation to our unemployment security expenditure at all, and I think that after the spring spending limits debate, the government will have to correct these estimates quite a bit further in the new faith. Well, I guess I did. As far as the Employment Fund is concerned, we will come back to their situation and to the way unemployment security expenditure will develop in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u31	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to two issues. Firstly, indeed here, representatives of Kurvinen and Satonen have very well spoken about how labour mobility can alleviate this crisis if we can increase labour input in some sectors of the economy. But at the same time, it is worth remembering that we have had as long as we can look back, at least ten years, according to Statistics Finland, at least 150,000 unemployed, according to the figures of the Ministry of Labour, much more, while there has long been a clear shortage of labour in some parts of Finland, for example in agriculture and forestry, which is just that the labour force is being released, does not seem to be enough and hardly enough for the same workforce to be able to work elsewhere in the economy. This will require various reforms and certainly training, but it is also likely to require some changes in labour market management and social security principles. It will not happen on its own, as much as we would have agreed here on these matters — these, therefore, which Mr Satonen and Mr Kurvinen spoke very well about here. The second aspect relates to this payment of unemployment benefit. These reforms, which are meant by this government proposal, are therefore excellent in this situation, and it is great that we have made rapid progress here. However, when I look at this labour market field on the basis of my own knowledge and experience, this situation seems to be worth considering, at the same time, the future of unemployment security and the current cash system. There is no need to be a greater fakir if you predict that many small unemployment funds are going to be in great trouble here, and we in this Chamber too should consider what would be the kind of future, hopefully universal, unemployment security that would have reduced the ambiguities of the current unemployment security system and would be able to function effectively in the unstable economy of the future — which instability will always be, because we want to pursue prosperity, and that would require participation in the global economy, but it also exposes us to various kinds of disruptions. This extension of unemployment security to entrepreneurs — although it is a temporary step at this stage — may also be a step towards a more comprehensive and more thought-out system of unemployment security for the future, as Professor Heikki Hiilamo of Social Policy has well said. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u32	Mr President! Mr Holopainen asked whether there was a wider debate in committee on the possibility of studying and engaging in business activities for the unemployed and laid-off. Well, given that this government proposal came into the Chamber only yesterday for the first time, there has not been much time to discuss the great philosophical, wide-ranging considerations in this connection, but there has been a lot of thought about this in the past and even in previous committees for work and gender equality. With regard to this bill, just as Mrs Holopainen hoped, it is not just a matter of having studies and business activities in progress when a person is laid off, but of having access to studies or business activities, without prejudice to the period of validity of this bill. Personally, I hope that this will also provide material for the future, for example for the use of the Social Committee, on how such a change of law might affect people's behaviour. It should be noted, however, that this bill only applies to laid-off workers, not all unemployed people, i.e. it is just one sub-group of unemployed people, but a relatively small and limited one, both in terms of time and in terms of target groups. More broadly, I would like to wake up and I would very much like the decision-makers to be aware of the crisis that, if we are honest, this is going to be quite a disaster with the payment of these various benefits, which will be realised in a month at the latest, perhaps even before that. There is nothing I know so far that will prevent delays from occurring. The delays are significant and, at least in part, they target people who do not already have buffers in their own economy to deal with. In the future budgets, in particular, we will certainly have to pay attention to Kela's resources in this respect, but it is also a question of our social security bureaucracy being terribly complex and demanding a high level of professionalism in order to be able to run that benefit bureaucracy, which means that even with the appropriations it may not be possible to recruit a number of benefit handlers who would be able to prevent these delays from happening. This is a serious matter — this is a very serious matter for the legitimacy of society when this is quickly targeted at large groups of people. In particular, the issue of agricultural work and its labour shortages, which is now obvious and serious, is also linked to our security of supply. A while ago, I went through a collective agreement on berry picking and did some calculations. The problem, of course, is that when agriculture is generally practised in rural areas, there is a large proportion of unemployed people, especially those who are mobile in their family situation, who live in cities, and at least in the picking of berries the collective agreement is so weak that it is not possible to go on berry picking if there is a person living alone in a rental dwelling in the city. The question is not that it is not encouraging, that you do not get more money than social benefits; it is simply not possible because you are starving. That compensation in relation to the travel costs, the cost of living, is so weak. If we want to maintain our food security in this country also above the corona, that is one thing we should now think of a trick of threes. I myself would be prepared to consider, in times of crisis, the use of pay subsidies at this point, for example, so that we can ensure that our agriculture is able to produce the food that the population needs. But it is also true that this is not just a crisis-time problem, but a long-term problem, and then, in the longer term, these solutions must be some other form of direct support for employers, such as wage subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u33	Mr President! Of course, it is an excellent thing to be able to speed up the payment of unemployment benefits to lay-offs. I understand it's easier said than done. It is also very important that, in this situation, you can study and engage in business activities and still receive unemployment benefit. That is a difficult thing in practice, then, we know that, but if anyone has such an opportunity, it is of course an excellent thing that it is allowed. Then, in particular, I was alerted to ask for this speech by that well-known, constructive one hundred-day opposition representative, Arto Satose.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u36	Mr President! This is a very good opportunity to cooperate with the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy as well as with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which is now considering ways of building the future in a new way. It should be noted that although online courses do not offer the same opportunity for contact teaching, they have now taken a great leap forward and it is quite easy to increase the number of students to a certain point. Of course, it must be done in such a way as to ensure the quality of teaching, and resources should be directed there too, but it would be possible to design modules that now serve these people who are laid off or unemployed. No one knows this exact duration, but we certainly have to prepare for a reasonable period of time, where at least some people are out of work for their own sake, and here, if there are some new ways to promote the diversification of Finland's business structure even in times of crisis like this, then we will be able to survive in a global economy in a sustainable way after the crisis. Of course, it is also important to take care of the means by which we get enough people to produce food, but it is also, at least, equally important that we ensure that we have people who are sufficiently competent in other critical areas of society and, above all, that we give people now the opportunity and hope to do things that move them forward in life instead of having to be at home in small spaces without doing things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u37	The fourth item in the order of business is presented for table setting. In view of the urgency of the matter, the Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the 3rd plenary session on 27 March 2020 today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u38	Parliament's plenary session will now be suspended and resumed at 5.30 p.m. The revision of the Regulation on the introduction of powers provided for in Article 118 of the Emergency Act will then be dealt with. The matter will be announced and then taken up in the referral debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u39	We shall now resume the plenary session adjourned at 5.14 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u40	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. So now we have a referral debate on this amended regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u41	Mr President! In the middle of this emergency situation, we are constantly seeking the best ways, best practices, to protect Finland from this new danger and to do so in such a way that, at the same time, we safeguard the fundamental rights and human rights of people as effectively and extensively as possible. This is an exceptionally strong restriction, a restriction on the freedom of movement of people. There has therefore been every reason to be particularly careful about the weighing and consideration of this adoption regulation, and I believe that at this stage we should thank both the Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and all the experts who contributed to the work of the committee for their strong and good cooperation in finding the best solutions. Indeed, the epidemic is not progressing steadily throughout the country, and we must do our best to prevent the spread of the epidemic. If there is a village or a place where the corona is not yet there, then our aim is to try to keep that place that way, and that is why these drastic measures are now being taken. At the same time, of course, when people still have reason to take care of relationships, close relationships, work and trust, all of this must, of course, continue to work as well as possible, and that is why attention has now been paid to the fact that, as far as possible, such rights have to be realised in the Prime Minister's memorandum and in the background discussions, in yesterday's plenary debate. But in situations where it is not absolutely necessary to move away from New Zealand or come to New Zealand, it is certainly better not to move. This is now in force for three weeks. At the same time, it is a short and long time: it is as short a time as can be thought in order to prevent the advance of the corona as effectively as possible. On the other hand, it can, understandably, be a long time for many, and it is therefore important now to stress how to support people’s coping, how to support people, especially those whose families are far from their home on the other side of the border. That is why it is important now that all the time we are considering ways of protecting people's lives, including through these restrictions, we are also developing helpline services, investing in social work and considering all the other creative solutions that make it possible for us, together, to endure this crisis and through these restrictions. All the time it is worth remembering that, even if these restrictions come, it is still up to each of us that, while, of course, we are complying with these strict, strict restrictions, we will also ensure that recommendations and obligations are complied with. There is now concern as to whether people will move more and more often in Uusimaa and face each other. This certainly should not be the case, and at least until now it has seemed that the Finns have insisted that we should stay as closely as possible at home and leave there only when it is necessary — and, of course, it is hoped that this line will continue and carry it all the way to the end when we have finished this pandemic. It might take a while. I have to admit it. It is also necessary to recognise that this time is certainly difficult for many people, and that is why these support measures, which I have described earlier, need to be developed along these lines all the time, because only by caring for each other, only by condensing the safety nets of society, will we be able to overcome this crisis. At the same time, there is constant weighing and monitoring of the fact that fundamental and human rights are being implemented in the best possible way. The Emergency Act specifically states that every moment when people’s freedoms are restricted, it must be weighed and considered — not only when these regulations are laid down, but every time you think about who is being let through and who is not. Every time it is imposed, every time these measures are taken, it is always a matter of weighing, and that is why this monitoring of fundamental and human rights is not just a matter for the moment. It is an ongoing work throughout this crisis because it will ensure that the fundamental pillars of a democratic and free society remain in this crisis. But cooperation – and it is here in Parliament that we work together across party boundaries – will overcome this and find the best solutions to protect life in the most effective way possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u42	I am thinking that I would like to give you two minutes of debate if I receive sufficient nods from those who have asked for the floor so that you can withdraw your speech. — Let us move on to the debate during two-minute periods. I would ask those representatives who wish to use the reply to stand up and press the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u43	Mr President! Perhaps I will read your thoughts correctly if I say that it would be excellent for us to have this actual debate on this subject once the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has presented its report. In other words, it would be my wish that we all refrain from speaking right now and, after the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we should use these valuable speeches. The previous speech was similar. That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u44	Mr President! I agree with the short speeches, but perhaps it would be a good thing if, for the sake of democracy, we could say a few words about this, while the representatives there have had a lively debate and the citizens are asking questions. Personally, like many others, I believe that we already need an update of the Emergency Act. It cannot be that, in an emergency, so-called technicalities put us in a situation where things do not get started right away and in decision-making. However, this is about the protection of life, which I think is a super-fundamental right, as many of us have probably said here. It is extremely important to restrict movement in such a way that this disease does not spread, and indeed, as I said, the background lies in the protection of life. That is why I hope that during the debates in the corridors and in the cafés of Parliament I will not hear again the reference that I heard today from a journalist: people will die anyway. I'm not in the habit of quoting these, but I don't want to hear that kind of conversation here any more.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u45	Mr President! I would like to say that the rule of law must also be respected in exceptional circumstances, and it is very important that, despite the understandable urgency of things, they are dealt with correctly, in the right procedure, and there, too, at the head of the Government, we try to achieve the best possible drafting of legislation despite the urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u46	Mr President! The introduction regulation is certainly a precise place, but it is now time to put it into effect as soon as possible. That is why I hope that we will deal with this issue as quickly as possible and allow the Constitutional Committee to work. People don't have time to wait. We need to get this thing out of this mill preferably this evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u47	Mr President! They're already looking at the next steps. As we know, the reason for this regulation is that the epidemic situation in Uusimaa is considerably higher when it is proportional to the population, even double. It is now important to consider how we can get control of the situation in Uusimaa as well. It is absolutely necessary to hear the following measures: whether they relate to communication, to the guidelines for gatherings, to the fact that it is absolutely necessary for us to get the quarantine chains of people returning from abroad, especially from epidemic areas, and to get them in order and also to quarantine them. At the moment, we can only voluntarily recommend quarantine, which means that it must be free of charge or very cheap. This is now also a priority.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u48	Mr President! Most of the corona restrictions are made to protect life. On the other hand, however, we know that a significant proportion of these restrictions also pose some risk to life. This is a difficult question for policy, because we have a very inadequate knowledge base to assess the extent to which, for example, restrictions on movement can protect life and a much more incomplete knowledge base on the possible impact of these restrictions on people's lives and health. Well, politics in general is overshadowed by incomplete knowledge, forced to make decisions without any knowledge of their impact, but now it is a particularly serious issue because we are deeply concerned with human rights. That is why I hope that Mr PeVi will take a hard look at this, but also that, although we all feel that there is a terrible rush now, the time and respect for this institution will be spent on these matters throughout the parliamentary process. If we are prepared to give these up, then we will do quite a disservice even after the corona in which this nation must also live on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u49	Mr President! We have a serious epidemic which must be restricted by all possible means, and that is why we are also dealing with this regulation on the introduction of mobility. Quarantines, isolations are very powerful means, they are much more powerful than this, and they should also be used. But at this point I would like to thank you for keeping this sitting brief and then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be able to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u50	Värderade Talman! Jag ska inte Heller fatta mig långt, men det är viktigt att lagstiftningsarbet skots noggrant och med omsorg. Jag ska lasa upp ett exempel som jag fish i ett meddelande i dag: “Hej!Jagdrarihalmstrånnuförjagtyckerattsomdetstärunderallkritik. Jag har min pojke i militarien och hör med förskräckelse på att ska sitta instangd i brigaden medan de som bor i Nyland får åka hem på ledighet. Hur kan det vara så? De åker ju dit där det finns som mest corona. Ska de då sedan kompa tillbaka till brigaden och smitaner alla andra? Det måste finnas tättätt. Jag är rädd för att de flesta österbottningar kommer att ta civiltjänst.’ Och så vidare, och så vidare. Här får vi alltså en effectt som vi inte har tänkt på då man gör arbetet för snabbt, och det är därför viktigt att vi tar oss tid att diskutera och noggrant gå igenom och gör en noggrann lagberedning, också fast det är kris. — Tack.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u51	Mr President! The situation is very exceptional. In this Chamber, too, human trials have been mentioned in various contexts, even in previous parliamentary term. At the moment, we are conducting quite a human experiment: the laboratories are Finland and Sweden, and afterwards we will be able to assess which has been able to make better decisions with inadequate information. It's not easy anywhere. In order to be slightly proportional, we have constitutional rights. In many countries freedom of opinion, freedom of speech and freedom of the press are only a dream. In Finland, we have to give up some things temporarily. In many countries, everything has been permanently abandoned.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u52	Mr President! In order to protect human health and life, everything that is reasonable and necessary from expert knowledge must be done. We are living in an exceptional period, and exceptional measures are being taken during an exceptional period. Freedom of movement is a fundamental right and human rights, the limitation of which must be taken very seriously. All the arguments put forward in favour of the mobility restriction in this corona situation, the slowing down of the spread and also the safeguarding of intensive care capacity, are strong reasons. It is therefore very important that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs now weighs carefully in the restrictions on movement, among other things, how effective it is when, however, there are quite a few exceptions here. I am concerned and have been contacted, especially in northern Uusimaa, when there is a lot of movement and also schooling in vocational education across the border. How to deal with situations, where it is necessary to move, and how to limit it when it is not necessary to move?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u53	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u54	Mr President! Yesterday we had an exhausting debate on this issue, and we are going to have the same debate after that. Members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs expect to be able to work. Would it be possible, Mr President, for these debates to be limited to one minute, because if a person cannot say it in one minute he can always take the floor again? — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u55	Mr President! For my part, I would just like to say briefly that since we are living in a very critical time that has never been practiced and this Parliament has never practiced such a situation, and we have never really been in a situation like this since the war, there must now be flexibility for all of us. Lawmakers are doing the best they can. Parliament is doing its best. What Mr Norrback has said is a rather worrying message that the garrison may have such lax activities. Well, it's got to be when you're fighting the disease... Here we are helping our fellow citizens not to spread the disease, trying to control the spread of the disease, allowing us to recover to people who sometimes have to go to hospital, then possibly have a place of treatment, that we have it in our hands. That should be remembered by all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u56	Mr. Speaker! I have said once before in this Chamber that when I was elected a year ago in the spring, I did not think, under any circumstances, that, as a new Member of Parliament, I would be working on such issues. I don't think any of us do. At the moment, the most important thing is to protect health and life. It's going all over the place. That is why these restrictive measures are also being discussed in this Chamber. I wish the Committee on Constitutional Affairs well on the subject itself and that we should also be able to move forward smoothly. But, Mr President, quite briefly, when I was not in the Chamber last night, I have also received quite a lot of feedback from the province in relation to the situation at Helsinki Airport. People are very surprised around Finland that, at the same time, this house is discussing the possible limitation of one whole province in terms of mobility and, at the same time, in practice, things are not under control at Helsinki Airport. It is this kind of coronal, where there are return flights from the world, and it is still unclear to us what action the government has taken to get this thing right. Mr. Speaker! This is certainly something that we must continue to do in this Chamber, so that we can finally get that clarity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u57	Mr President! Clearly, even the Act on Preparedness is not ready for crises when constitutional professors are really competing for how difficult these measures are to combat the disease, and the situation at Helsinki Airport is, as mentioned in the previous speech. But I am in favour of three K's, Kiljunen-Kivisaari-Kontula, saying that without further ado, restrictive measures will be sent to the Constitutional Committee as soon as possible and then we will have an in-depth debate at the next plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u58	Mr President! Restrictions are necessary when they are made in a timely manner and are sufficient. Insufficient testing and slow restrictions have caused the epidemic to spread in Uusimaa and the milk to fall. Now we are in a situation where the means are to try to prevent the epidemic from expanding to other parts of Finland, and hopefully the rest of Finland will be quicker in operations. I am in favour of strict restrictions when they are made in a timely manner and can be expected to benefit. Some things that should be taken into account when it comes to the isolation of Uusimaa: There has already been reference to the operations of Helsinki Airport and the constant arrival of dozens of machined passengers from very high corona infected areas, especially Spain. It has been irresponsible for them to have left the country by public transport, each with whatever, in different parts of Finland. [Sebastian Tynkyse’s interlude] The second thing that I personally find unfair is this treatment of the garrison, and I hope that the Constitutional Committee will intervene.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u59	Does the Prime Minister wish to speak?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-38.u60	Mr President! Indeed, the Government has now adopted a new implementing regulation on this Article 118 of the Emergency Act, as the Constitutional Committee has required us to adopt a separate implementing regulation. We still have the readiness to meet again today and then adopt an implementing regulation after the adoption of this implementing regulation by Parliament, that is to say, we will act as required by the Constitutional Committee. It is a matter of separating technical regulations, and this is definitely something that needs to be done. The question was raised here about the situation at the airport and that was also asked yesterday in the Chamber. Of course, this is how the operational question of how people have been given instructions at the airport is not a question of government level, but since there has been a problem here, the Government has acted here and, in my opinion, is now being informed to the media, which means that the situation at the airport has been put in order. The advice is that people do not travel by public transport with other people and, of course, there must be sufficient safety distances at the airport when travelling there. There must be clear instructions. People will also fill in a form stating whether they have a place of residence, home, Finland or whether they are Finnish citizens, but they do not have a municipality of residence here, so this form has been made, and all of these are now being told by the Prime Minister's Office. The challenge has been that, in fact, this issue affects many areas of government and we have in many ways been silod. The border is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, the airport Finavia, the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, of course, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, together with the THL — and here, as I have listed above, certainly not all the responsibilities, i.e. the place and the situation in which there are responsibilities in many administrative sectors and under many ministers. Now we have passed through this and, of course, we want this whole thing to be put right there on the ground. Now, the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, together with the ministries' emergency chiefs, has worked on a model, that is to say, a wire model, how to act in such a way that contacts are not created unnecessarily and that people are being directed to the right places for quarantine when they have come from abroad. So, in my opinion, this whole thing is now under control. It is absolutely essential that, when these shortcomings are detected, they are also addressed. I want to trust that our official machinery will now put this in order.
