ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-65.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 7/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Representative Vehviläinen presents.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-65.u2	Mr President! It seems that there are no large numbers of parliamentarians here, but when the committee has made quite a few significant changes to this, I will go over this committee's report a little more thoroughly. The proposal proposes to introduce a law on temporary derogations from the Unemployment Protection Act due to the COVID-19 epidemic. The law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible and to remain in force until 31 October 1920. In its reply to the Parliament on the temporary amendment of the Unemployment Benefits Act, the Unemployment Benefits Act and the Unemployment Fund Act, Parliament required that the Government immediately examine ways to streamline the treatment of unemployment benefits and ensure the implementation of the unemployment funds and the benefits of the Social Insurance Institution so that the benefits can be paid without delay. In the context of the second amending budget for 2020, Parliament has approved an increase of EUR 41 million for the Social Insurance Institution and EUR 20 million for unemployment funds in order to secure the benefit treatment due to the exceptional situation caused by the COVID-19 virus. The aim is to make it faster and, if necessary, longer to provide unemployment benefit applicants with income security under the unemployment benefit system, thereby reducing the need to apply for income support. The proposal proposes that temporary changes be made to the amount of unemployment benefits aimed at simplifying and clarifying the provisions, thus reducing the workload and the need for advisory work required for the examination of the application for benefits. These changes are expected to contribute to the targeting of human resources specifically for the payment of benefits. With regard to the mediation of unemployment benefit, the proposal proposes that, when the income of a business is adjusted, the income is assessed on the basis of the applicant's own declaration. In addition, a temporary derogation is proposed for the use of so-called imputed income and a special conciliation period for the settlement of unemployment benefit. It is also proposed that the need for and partiality of labour market support should be temporarily waived. It is also proposed that unemployment benefit may be temporarily paid on the basis of an application in advance for a maximum of six months instead of the current two months. Mr President! The committee is in favour of adopting the draft law as amended. The explanatory statement of the government proposal states that during the preparation, the waiting period for labour market support has also been assessed as the number of applications for labour market support has increased sharply. The Social Insurance Institution has estimated that a temporary derogation from setting a waiting period would reduce manual work in the application process. The preparatory work concluded that it was not appropriate to implement this change. The temporary abolition of the waiting period could also lead to a strong increase in labour market support applications and the subsequent increase in labour market support expenditure in a situation where the number of labour market support applications is expected to increase anyway. According to the opinion of the Social Insurance Institution, the reduction of mediation situations in Article 2(1) of the draft law cannot be sufficiently beneficial for implementation without the temporary reduction of the waiting period described above. In the view of the Joint Organisation of Unemployment Funds, the change in mediation is in line with the wishes of the unemployment funds to develop mediation provisions, but it would be better to make these changes on a permanent basis after careful preparation. On the basis of the study received, the draft law reduces the manual work done by the benefit handlers in specific situations where there is also a high risk of errors. The committee therefore proposes the adoption of Article 2 without amendment. In its opinion to the committee, the Social Insurance Institution takes the view that the temporary abolition of the need-tested and partitioning of labour market support referred to in Articles 3 and 4 of the draft law would not reduce but rather increase the workload of the Social Insurance Institution. The committee therefore proposes to delete Articles 3 and 4 from the draft law and to amend the proposed Rule 6 entry into force and the numbering of articles accordingly. The Committee believes that it is important to continue to streamline and speed up the implementation of unemployment security, inter alia by examining how better use can be made of the information in the Incomes Register in the implementation process. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-29-ps-65.u3	Mr. Speaker! On the other hand, it is quite appropriate that, before we go to the big Chamber, the report and the legislative proposal relating to work and livelihood should be dealt with. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has done a very careful job, and it is always valuable to bring about unanimous legislation in this House. It does not necessarily appear to the Houses and the general public that the majority of these issues we are dealing with will be brought to a consensus in those committees. The fact that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health made changes and improved and improved the government's proposal also tells us that there are not just rubber stamps here in Parliament and that there are really serious legislative work being done here. President! In this situation caused by the corona pandemic, when we have hundreds of thousands of people without work and are in such a special situation when society and the economy are closed down, it is absolutely essential that unemployment benefits can be paid to people as quickly as possible. That is how we will see to it that milk and bread remain at the table in homes and families. It is also very important, as the chairman of the committee, Mr Vehviläinen, also mentioned, that income support should not be so much to rely on, because it must be a genuinely last-minute social benefit, not a general rule at all, and we all know in this house the indisputable problems of income support. It is very complicated to apply for it, and one might even say that there may be some humiliating features in applying for income support. President! The interest-rate crisis has affected various organisations in many ways, and there was such a concern at one stage that unemployment funds will be able to manage this job and whether the funds will be able to cope with such a huge number of layoffs and redundancies and unemployment, but so far it has gone pretty well, and thanks to the unemployment funds and the people who work there. I also think it is important that the resources of the Social Insurance Institution, Kela, are taken care of. There will inevitably be pressure when Kela manages basic security and now also income support. For example, improvements in the social security of entrepreneurs will certainly put pressure on Kela. President! It is great that this presentation has also been brought forward, and hopefully this will help Finns to endure and cope in the midst of this corona crisis. For my part, I wish both the representatives and all the listeners a very good May Day!
