ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 8/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 11 June 2020. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u2	Mr President! I propose that Parliament approve the objection to the paragraph before us in accordance with the amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u3	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u4	Mr President! I continue to propose that Parliament approve the objection to the paragraph before us in accordance with the amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u5	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u6	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 12/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 June 2020. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u7	Chairman! I propose that Parliament approve the objection to the paragraph before us in accordance with the amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u8	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u9	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 14/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u10	Mr President! Was it intended that the chairman of the committee should present the report? [First Vice-President AnttiRinne : No floor requested. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u15	Mr President! This general profitability support at first reading, which was later categorized as cost support for companies, is likely to be the most significant of these elements of the aid package, which is being regulated and regulated here this spring because of the interest rate. All you can do is praise this performance. At the heart of this is the fact that the aid is determined on the basis of a significant decrease in the turnover of the industry and the company. But I would like to draw attention to this proposal for a statement from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy which draws attention to the fact that when aid cannot be granted in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to an undertaking whose main activity is agriculture, this is a certain problem at this point too, i.e. these will then be prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The committee has therefore taken up a proposal for a statement in its report which requires the government to prepare this general aid supplement to the fixed-term financial support for enterprises on an equal basis for primary agricultural production, fisheries and farm-linked business activities, as well as for micro-enterprises of 1 to 9 people engaged in the processing of agricultural products. Of course, now that we are at this stage of the part-session — or we do not know what stage we are at, but let us assume that we are at the end — this is a little problematic in terms of timetable. In fact, I would have asked the chairman of the committee what ideas the committee has on the timetable for implementing this draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u16	Mr President! - I'm so sorry. This has happened so quickly, and I had not asked for the floor in advance. — — — — Perhaps there is not much to present here in the sense that this was generally a subsidy that was considered to be well-founded, and the economics experts who commented on it, especially though the Helsinki Graduate School Situation Centre, considered it very well-founded. It is in the same way as insurance, not compensation, but a reduction and compensation for the losses suffered by companies as a result of this crisis, and in that sense it was generally considered to be well-founded. You can thank the government for that. There's two ways to make a decision here. It was thought that this aid should reflect the situation of the whole industry, i.e. if the company has a weakened sales but not the whole industry, it does not necessarily show that it is only on that basis that it is entitled to the aid, because it may also be a weakness of its own business, and our entire financial management is, of course, based on the idea that companies are competing and that some companies are leaving and will be new. In other words, the situation in the industry must be affected, but not only the situation in the industry, but also the situation within the industry. That is why there is such double conditionality here. At the end of the day, there was little need for change in the light of expert opinions that would have been very in-depth or even very controversial. Perhaps the most important issue was the demarcation of sectors, and that is where, of course, the final decision will be taken by the author of the regulation based on this law. But it does not matter at all the level at which these criteria are used in this classification of economic activities, i.e. when assessing the situation of the industry, the level of statistical classification or activity in which it is carried out: if it is very crude or if it is too fine, there may be some type of legal murder in either case — at least in the opinion of these applicants. It is also important, of course, that the State Treasury, which is carrying out this, then obtains a sufficiently good criterion from the author of the regulation in support of its own decisions, because it requires discretionary, ad hoc decisions in the State Treasury, which is, of course, costly and delaying this. This is what we were talking about. The committee's report sends its best wishes to the author of the regulation, as well as what we, the wise heads of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, have been able to develop together. There were also discussions about sectors that could become borderline cases here, such as event organisers, and some other such border cases we had on the table. With regard to this question of primary production, I cannot say very thoroughly, because unfortunately the committee did not have much time to deal with it in the light of expert opinions. It showed up here at the last minute. This, Mr President, is a general description of this report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u17	Mr President! I myself was on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to deal with this proposal, and I can thank the Minister for the fact that this method of calculating cost support already had a good starting point and only needed to make minor adjustments to this content. This is a good starting point, among other things, for looking at this company's turnover, which must be reduced by 30%, but also for the industry, the turnover must be reduced by 10%. Perhaps there was more to the debate about whether it is good or whether it is good enough, if it is good enough, for 20%, and then it was considered that there are quite a lot of companies that could have it between 28% and 30% or between 30% and 32% that we are preventing a legal murder from taking place in these areas. For example, one thing has come up, and that is that in some cities, such as Espoo and Helsinki, cities have either given up rent discounts or have forgiven rents for two or three months, and then, of course, these companies will be in a slightly different position compared to those who do not have this relief in a way, which, however, have had to pay its rent and the fixed costs will thus be higher. In other words, in a certain way, although the starting point of the Treasury is certainly that payment would be as easy as possible, perhaps there could be some small additional criterion as to whether, for example, the rent has been forgiven or whether there is something else that could be taken into account in this calculation of fixed costs that there is no legal murder. Then the second question that we are also asking was that we have areas of activity which, as a result of the restrictions on assembly and the closure of the borders of the country, have faced almost the same situation as the restaurant sector, i.e. they have had to close their doors completely — if we look at sporting events, fairs and travel agency activities during this summer, in what way they will then be taken into account, because the criteria may be slightly different and the way in which turnover accumulates during the year may be slightly different from what is in this final set of criteria. This is why we put a chapter of the report here, and it reads: ‘The consequence of the merger and the closure of the borders of the country is that some sectors have already been tested in practice or have been significantly restricted. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy calls for a set of criteria to be prepared within cost support to take account of the specific characteristics of these sectors." I'll take this as an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u18	Mr President! This cost-support proposal will, indeed, come in need. For that, I thank the Government, the Minister and the Committee. Of course, it is always right to criticise, as was perhaps heard at the beginning, that the speed and pace at which these forms of aid have been created have been the same, but I think it has been wise now that this has been done with sufficient consideration to avoid the pitfalls of the first forms of support in relation to Business Finland and the Ely Centres. However, I believe that there is a need for speeches to take account of fairness and the need to consider what needs to be done, and in some of the Ely Centre's aids, where at first there were perhaps some wrong decisions, the fact that they were reviewed and corrected has proved to be very good. The position of businesses and entrepreneurs is what we must be concerned about. I hope that this form of support will not come too late. Now that we are helping these businesses and entrepreneurs beyond this crisis, that is the only way we will pay the bill for this interest rate, that we will secure a further opportunity for all viable companies. This also includes the message to new entrepreneurs that entrepreneurship, indeed, is worth taking risks and that in such situations, which cannot be anticipated, society will help. Mr President! In the future, the big task of this Chamber and the government will be to reflect on the next steps that we will take to enable new work, the creation of new growth in this country. I think it is essential that we look at all the obstacles and restrictions that exist, both in law and in society, that prevent new innovations, new inventions, new births. Too often today, these very popular and life-friendly business ideas are born outside Finland and Europe, and this is something we need to address after we have overcome this interest-bearing summer. But thank you to the government for this presentation. The model affects the powers, and everything a and o is that the aid actually reaches where it is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u19	Mr President! I am certainly not the only one in this Chamber who has received messages from small businesses and professionals in the field — there is a real need. Yet, in their presentations, the government does not seem to listen to these micro-entrepreneurs’ distress calls as carefully as it should. The Government's proposal for a law on fixed-term company cost support is very necessary and long-awaited, but it seems to discriminate against a small entrepreneur. This isn't fair. The proposal mentions, inter alia, that the turnover should have been at least EUR 20000 for March-June 2019, i.e. four months. This would correspond to the minimum annual turnover threshold of EUR 60000. This seems to be a bit of an artificial border. In the opinion of the Finns Party, the turnover limit for March-June should be reduced from EUR 20000 to EUR 15000 — equivalent to an annual turnover of EUR 45000. Such a small company is also fully operational, employs people, serves customers or larger companies, orders services from other operators and keeps the family bread out of the way. The government now seems to forget that Finland is built on these people too, not just on medium-sized and large companies. According to Statistics Finland, in 2018, there were more than 20,000 such companies with a turnover of 45000 to 59900. Of course, it must be borne in mind that not all of these are necessarily in sectors that meet the criteria for interest subsidies, but there are thousands of small entrepreneurs across Finland. There are a lot of companies in this group whose business has stopped like a wall because of the interest rate. Their situation is particularly difficult, and it may take a long time to recover from the crisis, so that perhaps this is now a very wrong place to steal that money when it feels generously distributed there and here. In the government's proposal, these non-subsidised companies will in the worst case lose aid of up to several thousand euros, even if the two-tonne municipal and labour market subsidies are included — even though they seem to be small money — they are big money for small entrepreneurs, even 2000 euros. This is what the Finns of Peru hope for change. As I said, the government has implied that it will send huge sums of money, hundreds of millions or even billions, with the recovery fund, to business subsidies in southern and eastern Europe, so that at this point perhaps it would not be worth a few million or ten million ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u20	Mr President! This cost support is intended for companies whose turnover has fallen significantly due to the corona virus and which have difficult to adapt to. I think Mr Kiviranta quite rightly said that this is perhaps the most important support measures for companies among all the measures taken by the government. Mr Kiviranta also raised an important issue, the committee's proposal for a statement, which highlights the importance of supporting agriculture and fisheries businesses and the measures needed. It is good that the committee also took this aspect into account. Mr President! I believe that the government has done good work in these exceptional circumstances and in the exceptional circumstances that we have experienced during the spring, with various support measures being prepared for companies, and this cost support is very important. There are messages from companies that the situation is difficult in many ways. The aim of this cost support is to reduce and prevent bankruptcies. In its report, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy draws attention to the implementation of the aid, and in the debate on the referral of this cost support, the Minister It was important to hear from Lintilä that implementation has already been prepared and provision has been made for it so that, once the matter has been dealt with in Parliament, it can be implemented as quickly as possible. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also rightly points out that this support has also been prepared from an exceptional point of view and that we have not had any aid for such situations in the past that could be applied directly. I believe that during spring and early summer we have learned a lot from the fact that if we find ourselves in a similar situation, then we can support business even more quickly and better.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u21	Mr President! Thank you to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for a good This business cost support, between EUR 2000 and EUR 0.5 million, is, as has been said in several speeches, a real need. According to today's data, around 13% of our SMEs are at risk of bankruptcy, and that is a significant amount. Let's hope this doesn't get any worse. Mr Kiviranta and Mr Kauma raised important points. Indeed, agricultural and fisheries entrepreneurs, organisers of events and then, for example, in Lapland, border traders still need special support measures. For example, the Kilpishalli store in the village of Kilpisjärvi, which is built mainly to meet the needs of Norwegians. The village has 100 inhabitants, and the turnover of the shop has been approximately EUR 12.3 million a year. There has been a complete withdrawal of business when borders had to be closed, and I really hope that special attention will also be paid to the situation of these border traders in the future. As Mr Könttä said, viable companies must now be kept up, and I would like to thank the government for the efforts you have made to achieve this. I would have asked the Minister again: do we have any specific opportunities to support these areas of activity mentioned in the debate, and what kind of means might the government possibly have?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u22	Mr President! There have already been excellent speeches throughout the Chamber, both from the members of the committee and from others. Indeed, it is a matter of temporary support, it is necessary and it is expected, and this type of serious, collective crisis will of course require a shared responsibility. As the chairman of the committee, Mr Vartiainen, too, said, this was considered to be well-founded among experts, and that is no wonder. After all, this proposal is largely based on the proposal of the Group on Economic Policy chaired by Vesa Vipriälä, and I think this is a good example of legislation that has been genuinely and carefully prepared, listening to experts. Unfortunately, as in the interest rates discussed here before, it is not possible for everyone to achieve full accuracy and adequacy and fairness. This is probably where some drop-outs are likely to be. However, I believe that this support in this form is very good and excellent. What is important is that it is clear and that the payment is straightforward, and it has come to these references about how, of course, the committee has raised the need to assess the criteria, for example, for these companies and sectors which have been severely restricted. It is good to note, too, that if the worst happens and the crisis recurs, prolongs, becomes another wave or similar, then this support as such is not necessarily directly appropriate. Then, at worst, we may also have the thought that what types of bankruptcy are the most critical to society and, in a way, even more difficult decisions on how to keep companies up. I hope that we do not have to go into this, but that this has been applauded here, and this will also prevent these bankruptcies. I would like to return to this statement that there is a correct understanding. The opinion on these enterprises related to agriculture and fisheries is based on equal treatment of enterprises, i.e. that these companies would not be excluded, even though the legal basis there is a little different when it is supported. Therefore, there is no specific support for these sectors, and of course, as the committee itself points out, both these and all others already take into account the specific aid. But on my own behalf, thank the government for a good proposal, and in committee for the good exercise of the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u23	Mr President! The government parties here have praised this current solution, and I do not disagree with it at all. The only problem with this, of course, is that these are wickedly late. Representative Kärnä said that 13% are going bankrupt. It is not even suspicious in any way, because the situation is that they are just beginning to emerge, because those companies, of course, have been the first to be in pain when it has stopped selling immediately, but then, of course, there are those companies that have tried to trick around in some way and adapt to this situation. We have a very challenging situation. Of course, I've been getting to know things because of my own background, quite a lot of these things I have to deal with. One company, which moved the bills of a Finnish pension insurance company when it was given a chance to do so, but when that panic is on, the bundles of bills are terrible, the mailbox is afraid to go any further, the focus is on looking for work and somehow surviving, not all things go as accurately as they would like, so when there are some small-fibs left in it, then some particular bill from the pension insurance company has not gone into the same bundle, but has been hung there, so which is odd, then Lowell's bill, and then EUR 200 is charged for the $1,500 bill. This is, in fact, incomprehensible how our pension insurance companies deal with this issue in this situation of interest. Well, maybe we're friends there. Now there is a really, really big problem with the fact that these payments are indeed in a real hurry in this area, and fortunately this refund of VAT will now help it in some way relatively quickly. It is only best to prepare for a rather strong wave here, unfortunately, because in these decisions it has taken an unreasonably long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u24	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee and to the committee as a whole for the careful and good preparation of this matter. It is true what many colleagues have pointed out here that the key question that can be criticised for this proposal is certainly this timetable and timing. On top of that, I can say quite frankly, as a representative of the opposition, that I believe that the government and all Finns have handled this epidemic themselves well, and, fortunately, Finland has managed to do very little about it. But where this government has stumbled and has stumbled seriously, it is precisely in dealing with these economic consequences and bringing its help to ordinary companies that have had nothing to do with this crisis. We have been discussing these activities throughout the spring in this Chamber. As early as March, we were washing out of the opposition these measures to support businesses, and now we are at the end of June, and there are still thousands of companies in the country that have not received the support they should have received before. Mr President, I would like to draw particular attention to the subsidies granted by the Ely Centres, because I believe that there is still quite a lot of these applications stuck there, and that is a very bad thing, because they have been applied for by the very smaller companies that have needed it, and yet this has been a matter of months in which to give it to these companies and to ensure that every company receives it — as in the case of sole entrepreneurs, once again, through the municipalities, which I believe has been doing fairly well. Business Finland too, however, given that there have been certain problems, has been able to act very quickly, and now these tax measures have come, which can continue to take the matter forward. However, there have been clear stumbling blocks of this kind, and that is why, as perhaps a general rating, it is not possible to give the country's government a better deal than it would have to do with this management of financial penalties, but this proposal itself is very welcome and good. I would also like to say that, in this respect, the government of the country must also say that you have not had to re-invent everything, but that there have been a wide range of measures in Europe, and that we must also look for a model for how these various measures can be taken forward. The cost support itself is excellent. The committee has done a good job in that regard. It is a great need and it will help many companies to overcome this crisis, and I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Minister and the government of the country and the committee that has been working on it, but as a general point, I would say that this House should not give anything better than that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u25	Mr. Speaker! The interest-rate crisis and the restrictive measures associated with it have been an unprecedented blow, not just for Finland but, you can say, for all the countries of the world. As Mr Marttinen said here, this epidemic itself, its delimitation and subsequently its suppression, has, in my view, been successfully dealt with. It is natural and understandable that when this was a new situation for all operators and in this situation attempts were made to save — and to save — jobs, businesses, there is a certain groping in corporate subsidies. As a result, there were certain problems with Business Finland and the subsidies distributed through it. On this point, which I understand is a good form of support, the problem is that this is coming very late, but better late than not at all. As far as this support is concerned, it is clear that such a millimetre justice will not be achieved in practice, even though the government and Parliament are doing their best to do so. Representative As regards the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy pointed out an important paragraph concerning companies whose activities have, in practice, been completely or almost completely halted as a result of these restrictive measures. There is no protection for these companies similar to that for restaurants, since the closing of restaurants was based directly on the law and therefore required reasonable compensation by Parliament. However, in the case of these companies, such as organisers of events, fairs or cultural events and others, which are referred to in this committee's report, the situation is that, as a result of these restrictive measures, they have virtually ceased. I personally think it is important to read this paragraph in the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, read here by Mr Kauma. Of course, what is more important than all subsidies is that citizens dare to return to normal activities to spend, visit restaurants and shops, and even now the government is in the process of negotiating the next steps in this opening up of society. This is a difficult balancing exercise: on the one hand, we need to open up society, on the other hand, we need to ensure that the virus does not break out again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u26	Mr President! Indeed, thank you very much to the government for the many correct and timely policies that have been taken this spring and for the many good proposals that have been brought here to Parliament. It is all very well to hear that the opposition also recognises this work, and it is also recognised by the people who, according to the surveys, are very much satisfied with the government's activities, and it is even considered to be the most popular government in the history of measurement. The thing that has upset me about this is how often we have been able to see how rigid our legislation is when it comes to the fact that we should be able to improve people's livelihoods on a fast-track basis and be able to show the support to people who are in the most difficult position. But this proposal is really important and necessary, because when we avoid bankruptcy, we also protect people's jobs and then, of course, we also secure people's livelihoods. As Mr Harjanne said, this law is widely considered necessary in expert opinions, as has already been mentioned here in the debate. The point that I particularly wanted to raise is this position of the interlocutors. In previous discussions, we have, for example, raised the issue of restaurant subsidies, which were classified — or had different views — but were classified as staff nutritional conditions and thus outside the scope of restaurant support. Today I have tried to clarify the fact that, in the television and film sectors, these subsidies are now being allocated only to new productions, and we are dealing with a sector in which the productions that have just been under way have been seriously affected. I hope that this will help to prevent this problem that we have had, that is, that when there are these limited subsidies, then there will always be someone who would have had such support, and hopefully this will become clearer through the regulation. But nothing but thanks for this and the strength for today's negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u27	Honorable Speaker! Firstly, I would like to thank the government for its excellent proposal and for the fact that there is also a committee's proposal for a similar form of cost support for primary agricultural production, fisheries and farm-linked business. But then I also have to ask the government whether the government has forgotten these 20,000 companies, which, according to our protest, are in a turnover area between 45000 and 60000 per year. In other words, as Mr Vallin well described, about 20,000 companies are located in this turnover area. In fact, in the detailed discussion, we make the objection to Article 2 of the amendment proposal that the turnover during this period, March-June 2019, would have been at least 15,000 when the government proposal referred to 20,000. In practice, therefore, I would like to say that the financial costs of this proposal would increase by about 40 million, but since it is assumed that not all of these 20,000 companies would be eligible for this cost support, because that cost support must be at least 2,000, then perhaps some 10,000 companies will be located between those which would be receiving the aid, i.e. we would say that our objection would increase the cost of the State by about 20 million, that category. Well, when you look at how this aid policy has been implemented, the government first implemented the development aid, then there was the point-by-point subsidies and now there is the general aid, and then, of course, there was the very first guarantee. It has now become clear — hindsight, of course — that perhaps we should have acted just the opposite, first of all to provide general support, then those point-by-point subsidies for the transactions that were closed and then only development aid and, of course, those guarantees should have been on favourable terms from the outset, so that they are used a great deal. But then, as I said, this is hindsight. However, we now have a good proposal and a good proposal, and if there is a similar period in Finland, then the first thing to do is to dig out the desk box and implement it, and then go and look at the rest of the chain.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u28	Mr President! It is really great that this week the emergency conditions have ended and the epidemic situation in Finland is so good that from now on the legislation on normal conditions can be applied. However, the pandemic situation in the world has continued to worsen, and the economic impact of this crisis will perhaps only hit Finland with full force in the coming months, and how our economy develops in the coming years will depend much on how we act now. It is important for the government to take active action, and thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for making progress on this cost support. However, there are still many sectors in need of targeted support and, Mr President, I would like to highlight in this speech the tourism sector, which is one of the main teeth of Finnish service exports. The tourism sector faced the most rapid and most violent effects of this global pandemic and will, unfortunately, suffer longer than many other sectors. This is, of course, due to the fact that, when the pandemic situation is still poor globally and at its worst even worsens, international mobility is not the same as we have been used to in recent years. However, it is quite clear that in the coming years there will be a lot of expectations in the service industries, and as their engine for tourism, for Finland's success. Finland as a tourist country has great potential, and I believe that, with this global digital leap, as work-related travel decreases, the demand for leisure tourism will only increase. So I ask Minister Lintilä: how can the Finnish tourism industry now be helped beyond this difficult period so that we can continue the good growth that has been seen not only in Lapland so hopefully in the years to come in Finland, so that this labour intensive sector will be able to provide jobs and livelihoods for the Finns extensively and those much-needed tax clubs for the national economy as well, as a whole, as we recover from this attack by the pandemic?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u29	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy once again for the good work and good cooperation on this proposal. And then I can say that exactly the same questions I was thinking about and we were thinking about when we made the proposal, as we were thinking in committee: what is the percentage, what is the turnover, what is the sum, what are the criteria? Exactly what we went through. Someone just needs to make a decision about where that line comes from. The boundaries are always a problem, always, but this is the show. I understand very well that there will be different views, that the border could have been that and that, and that is the richness of politics, that they can do a bit of politics. It has now been criticised that this came so late. We started working on this at the end of April. We have now achieved this and the payments will therefore come at the beginning of July. If you think you can pick it up next week, they'll come in early July. That's just over two months. If you think about it, we'll be in a crisis in 14 weeks. Support for BF and Elys was opened at the end of March. If we had kept them closed, started to prepare for this and this would have come in June, I think there would have been much more talk in this Chamber about getting nothing. But I confess: in a certain way this was a choice that had to be made, and of course I will accept the criticism that will come. But this decision also had to be made. I must say that Mr Zyskowicz is right once again. The best thing to do for businesses is to get us into a normal life. We can't catch any of those individual companies from there and to them... From what do we target them on what basis? Support must always be based on something specific. There are a lot of companies that have suffered very badly and quite rightly could be targeted, but there must always be a justification for where it comes from. So, yes, the most important business support is that we get to normal life and normal business and economic activity. It applies to all sectors. This is where the tourism came up. We will support tourism through Finnvera and all these sectors. I very much hope that this can now be left in naphthalin. For the next time, we will have a law that can quickly be clarified by a regulation. This one's real. But I hope we don't need it. As for what was in that statement, this is a longer - term problem. So, in a certain way, the boundaries between the three Ms and our TEMs have been blurry in some respects. Take, for example: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u30	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 9/2020 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u31	Mr. Speaker! I calculated that there were eight MPs in Parliament who were here to make decisions in the early 1990s, while the last time the government's debt was at the same pace as this year because of the crisis. At the time, Minister of Finance Viinanen had to go around the world's financial centres with a hat in his hand and seek loans under relatively harsh conditions and commit to rapid measures to curb debt. If it were the same with regard to the level of government borrowing interest rates, then we would have to prepare for an additional annual amount of between 2 and 3 billion per annum with such debt and the total interest rate and the current level of government debt would be 10 billion per year. Now they are in hundreds of millions, which means that there is a real big change in this state of finance market situation compared to those early 1990s. Of course, there may be changes to these, but this situation must be exploited and as much as possible of that government debt in the form of long-term loans for long-term maturity, favourable interest rates, so that the situation can be stabilised. In addition to this, there will then be a need for additional powers for short-term debt-taking due to liquidity. Approaching the upper limit of the borrowing mandate increases uncertainty as to the adequacy of the mandate, thus making it more difficult for the entire society to continue to take out government loans that are critical for the continuity of its operations. The main objective of the proposal is to increase the current borrowing power to enable the need for a loan in sight to be satisfied and to ensure sufficient room for manoeuvre between the nominal value of sovereign debt and the maximum mandate to ensure the smooth and cost-effectiveness of sovereign debt management. This uncertainty is indeed great for the future, and although at present economists generally estimate that this really low interest rate will continue, especially for reliable states for a very long time, for years, so however, it will change can be surprising and sudden, and this kind of continuing debt must be brought under control. It would be nice to see that this extended mandate would be enough for the entire decade. If and when economic growth is speeded up and public finances are balanced, this is possible, within the limits of what is possible, but in this situation it is appropriate to act in anticipation and to ensure the adequacy of the borrowing mandate and the ability of debt management to function even in a situation where borrowing needs would prove to be greater than expected. The Committee on Finance dealt with the matter unanimously and, for the reasons set out in the Government's proposal and on the basis of the report received, the Committee considers that the proposal is necessary and supports its adoption unchanged. In this context, the committee refers to its report on the budgetary plan and also draws attention to the fact that sovereign debt, financial assets and off-balance-sheet liabilities have increased significantly over the last decade. The Committee stresses the importance of careful management of the State's financial responsibilities and adequate risk management and monitoring, particularly in the event of a deficit in central government finances. As a proposal for a decision, the Committee on Finance proposes that Parliament authorises the Government, under the conditions laid down by the Government, to borrow up to EUR 150 billion in the nominal value of the State debt for the time being, and that, in the case of loans granted with a maturity of up to 12 months, the amount of short-term debt of up to EUR 25 billion, and that, within the limits laid down by the Government, it may entrust the Ministry of Finance or the Treasury with the task of deciding on the borrowing. Within the limits laid down by the Government or the Treasury, Parliament shall authorise the Government, in addition to the Ministry of Finance or the Treasury, to use, at its discretion, a credit of up to 12 months for the purpose of ensuring the liquidity of the State and the adequate management of the State’s seasonal expenditure peaks and treasury investments. Within the limits laid down by the Government or by it, Parliament shall authorise the Government to exercise the borrowing and other powers of the Government under this Decision from 1 July 2020 until further notice and to authorise the Government to take the necessary measures to prepare for borrowing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-17-ps-96.u32	Mr President! I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the fact that this is really an increase of EUR 25 billion in the borrowing mandate. It is certainly technically necessary to do this, because right now we are in a situation where the state is in debt quickly and it is important that the mandate for borrowing does not become full and that Finland's position in the international financial markets is thus jeopardised. However, it is important for Parliament to pay attention to the old folk wisdom that the debt is a brother when it is taken but when the nephew is paid when it is due. Of course, these amounts are enormous and, in this respect, I hope that Parliament, while giving the government room for manoeuvre here on the issue of borrowing, will increasingly require measures on the revenue side, so that we have economic growth that will keep relative indebtedness under control and also turn the government deficit into a surplus in the future. Mr President! Another aspect of this is that it may be that this debt-taking reserve will have to be used to allow Finland to borrow from the market and then this loan will be transferred through this EU Recovery Fund either directly as aid or as debts to other Member States. I do not quite understand why this multi-disciplinary approach is needed, while, at the same time, that was a couple of weeks ago, we heard, for example, how the European Central Bank expanded its sovereign debt buy-back programme by EUR 600 billion again. Why is it not enough to guarantee the debt of the various European countries and, consequently, to enable each country to have its own debts? On the one hand, it would help these most indebted countries to have a backsliding against which to justify the necessary structural reforms and, on the other hand, to retain the legitimacy of these joint institutions in those Member States where it is easy to feel that they have to finance deficits in other countries. Here, Mr President, there are two points of view that I wanted to bring to the debate.
