ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u1	Before we go into the order of things, a few words, now that we're all together. We have gradually changed the work of the Parliament House in order to ensure that the basic role of Parliament is fulfilled. Visits are limited to what is necessary, the majority of workers are working at a distance and the travel rules of the representatives have been changed. The need for possible new measures will be assessed at all times. All of this reduces the risk of getting sick. However, it can never be completely removed. Similar arrangements have been made throughout Finnish jobs. We show that society works even though the conditions are difficult. Under exceptional circumstances, the central government bodies operate. Parliament does not compromise the principles of democracy and its control in its own work. Our work must be transparent and transparent, and the opportunities for the media to operate in the house will be secured. In exceptional circumstances, access to and dissemination of reliable information is extremely important. The order of business of this sitting was just put on the machines. A few words about that. There are a total of five regulations adopted today by the Government, one of which is an urgent adoption regulation, which has already entered into force, the other being a regulation on the introduction of powers, which will be sent to the Constitutional Committee, and three implementing regulations for the various sectors, which will be sent to the Constitutional Committee, to which the special committees appointed by the draft decision will have to deliver an opinion by 12 noon on Thursday. These implementing regulations are to be brought to the attention of the Constitutional Committee so that they can be dealt with here in tomorrow's plenary session. With regard to the implementing regulations, the timetable for Thursday is that they will be discussed in the plenary session following the Constitutional Committee at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u2	The second item in the order of business is now being presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. In this context, discussion will also be allowed on the agenda from 3 to 6 June. on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u3	Mr President! On 16 March 1920, in cooperation with the President of the Republic, the Government has stated that exceptional circumstances exist in the country under the Emergency Act. Different emergency conditions have been defined in the Emergency Act. The exemption conditions have now been established in accordance with Article 3(3) and (5) of the Law. These exceptional circumstances refer to a particularly serious event or threat to the livelihood of the population or to the economic foundations of the country, which is a major threat to the functioning of society, and to a very widespread serious major accident-related infectious disease. Coronavirus COVID-19 is a widespread infectious disease and has been declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization. On 16 March 1920, the Government has adopted guidelines to slow down the spread of coronavirus infections and protect groups at risk and will remain in force until 13 April 1920. The aim is to protect vulnerable people in particular, such as the elderly and the underlying diseases, and to secure the capacity and capacity of Finnish health care in all circumstances. Mr President! Finland is better prepared for the epidemic ahead than many countries. Preparations and preparations have been made since the beginning of January. The main means of dealing with the situation are the implementation of the Act on communicable diseases, the pandemic contingency plan and the material contingency plan. Under the Act on communicable diseases, it is possible to decide on the quarantine of a person who is sick or suspected of being sick and on the regional closure of social welfare and health care units, educational institutions, day-care centres, housing and similar facilities and on the prohibition of public events. Social and health care have pandemic plans that are used to treat corona virus. The plans also include calculations of hospital places and the adequacy of intensive care. Material preparedness has been checked, including for protective equipment, and the situation is better than in many European countries. Mr President! Within the framework of the regular powers, all the means available are used. However, on the basis of the overall situation, it can be estimated that the fight against an international pandemic, the care of the sick and the protection of the population are not manageable by the regular powers of the authorities. In particular, the protection of the elderly and the multi-diseased, as well as of the groups at risk from certain underlying diseases, is not adequately protected by regular powers. The powers under the Act on communicable diseases and other social and health care legislation are not sufficient to manage the situation in such a way as to adequately protect the activities of social welfare and health care institutions or to decide on national measures. The Act on communicable diseases does not include powers to provide health care services that could safeguard the resilience of health care and public authorities in the event of a load. In addition, the decisions needed to prevent the spread of the disease in order to organise education and training must be made nationally. Mr President! Regular powers are no longer sufficient to protect the population against a very widespread risk of infection. That is why the Government has decided that the Act on Preparedness will introduce provisions that the Government considers necessary in the current situation and proportionate in order to slow down the spread and progress of the COVID-19 pandemic and, in particular, to ensure the adequacy of management and other human resources. The Government has decided on two implementing regulations. One of these comes into force as a matter of urgency. The Government Decree on Section 87 of the Emergency Act enters into force as a matter of urgency. Under the Regulation, the sale of medicinal products, goods and services used in health care can be restricted throughout the national territory as determined by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. A second Government Decree is also submitted to the Parliament, which provides for the introduction of the following powers: The powers provided for in Article 86 of the Emergency Act to direct the units of social welfare and health care may be applied throughout the territory of the State as determined by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The municipality’s right under Article 88 of the Emergency Care Act to waive compliance with the time limits for urgent care provided for in the Health Care Act, the assessment of the service needs referred to in Article 36 of the Social Welfare Act and the tasks under the Health Protection Act can be applied throughout the national territory as provided for by the Government Decree. Exceptions to the powers referred to in Article 93(2) of the Emergency Act, the provisions of the Working Time Act on rest periods and overtime and the provisions of the Annual Holidays Act on the adoption of annual leave in the field of health care and social services, rescue services, emergency centre operations and police services may be applied throughout the territory of the State. The extension of the period of dismissal of a health care, social services, rescue services and emergency centre worker, civil servant and municipal official within the meaning of Article 94(3) and (4) of the Emergency Act may be applied throughout the national territory. The employment obligations of health care personnel referred to in Section 95(2) of the Emergency Act can be applied throughout the national territory. The teaching and other activities of the organisers of education and training within the meaning of Article 109 of the Preparatory Act may be suspended in the whole territory of the State as determined by the Ministry of Education and Culture. In accordance with Section 109(2) of the Emergency Act, the obligation for providers of education and training to organise teaching and other activities, as well as meal, transport and accommodation benefits may be limited throughout the national territory as provided for by the Government Decree. In addition, it is possible that the Government will later be required to introduce other provisions of the Emergency Act, such as the restriction of mobility and residence under Article 118, in order to protect the population as provided for by the Government Decree. In this case, the Government will issue a new implementing regulation and, if necessary, an implementing regulation to Parliament. In addition to the above-mentioned implementing regulations, the Government has decided on three implementing regulations: First of all, the Government will issue a decree on the right of the municipality to derogate from the time limits for urgent care of health care and assessments of the need for social care services. The purpose of the regulation is to release social and health care resources for the treatment of people with COVID-19 infection, other urgent care and the assessment of essential social services. Secondly, the Government adopts a regulation on temporary restrictions on the obligation to organise early childhood education and education. The proposal contains restrictions on the municipality’s obligation to organise early childhood education. In addition, the presentation includes restrictions on education in basic education, upper secondary school education, vocational education, polytechnics, university education and the organisation of education in liberal education and basic art education. Third, the Government adopts a regulation on temporary derogations for the application of certain provisions of the Annual Holidays Act, the Working Time Act and the Employment Contracts Act. Mr President! These powers can only be exercised in the manner necessary to achieve the purpose of the Emergency Act and in proportion to the objective pursued by the exercise of the power to act. By means of the Act on communicable diseases, other legislation and the introduction of these provisions of the Act on preparedness, our goal is to achieve a levelling off of the disease peak caused by the corona virus, so that health care can bear the burden of the epidemic. In many countries, healthcare capacity has been critically strained, but it is possible to avoid this in Finland by means of timely and proportionate restrictions. Our main task now is to protect the groups at risk, particularly those who are vulnerable to serious symptoms of the disease. Risk groups include, above all, people over 70 years of age and people with underlying diseases. Risk groups tend to have the most severe disease and need considerable hospitalisation. Mr President! Given that the legislation and regular powers of normal conditions are no longer sufficient to protect the population, the enabling act introduces provisions which the Government considers necessary in the current situation and proportionate in order to slow down the spread and progress of the COVID-19 pandemic and, in particular, to ensure the adequacy of management and other human resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u4	Following the presentation, the referral debate will take place at a rapid pace with a maximum of 5 minutes of group speeches. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 2 minutes. Statements shall be reserved for the Groups. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take no longer than 2 minutes. The debate will be resumed until 8 p.m., then the debate will be suspended and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will meet, and then the referral debate will be resumed at 24.00 a.m. during the ongoing session. — Group speeches, Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u5	Mr President, värderade talman! Finland — like the whole world — is now faced with a completely new, massive challenge. It is already clear that the corona virus is one of the most difficult trials in Finnish society since the post-war period. In cooperation with the President of the Republic, the Government has stated that there are exceptional circumstances in the country. That is why the Government has submitted a proposal to Parliament for a regulation on the introduction of the Emergency Act. It's a powerful way, but it's necessary. Mr President! What we are accustomed to in our daily lives is now limited in many ways. Schools, libraries, theaters and swimming pools are closed. Public gatherings are restricted. Passenger and passenger transport to Finland is suspended. However, in order to ensure the functioning of society, access to early childhood education is guaranteed. New ways must also be found to keep in touch with those who are isolated in their own home. In addition to the restrictive measures, the Government will help businesses and entrepreneurs in difficulty with a significant package of support. Economic activity will require even more attention and genuine recovery, but in the first phase resources will have to be put in place to slow down the spread of the interest rate and ensure financial security. There is once again a need for extensive cooperation in the labour market in order to stabilise economic development and safeguard employment. It is important that the necessary solutions are made equally and that the government respects the tripartite negotiation procedure, the contractual activities of the labour market and also the rights of employees. These measures are not easy, and they take a lot of time for each of us in our everyday lives. Even at difficult times, we must think that we must do everything in our power to protect life. A successful economy and a functioning everyday life are important, but life is the most important thing. No generation can choose their trials, and now it is up to us to protect those who have built this country for us, the elderly of our country. In addition to the elderly, we take responsibility for other at-risk groups. We'll take care of the carrying capacity of our health care. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth remembering that the trial treats Finns unevenly. Some small entrepreneurs empty the cash register, many employees are laid off. We must not leave them alone. Others, on the other hand, have to work overtime at the limits of endurance. That is why we need solidarity and helping each other more than ever, all according to our own resources and abilities. Mr President! President of the Republic Sauli Niinistö said that we need physical distance but spiritual intimacy. Unlawfully said.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u6	Mr. Speaker! We know the situation picture of the new corona virus, and the whole world is in an exceptional state. All countries are now working to prevent and slow down the spread of the virus. For its part, Finland must act decisively to protect its citizens. In Italy it has already happened that the overload of health care prevents the sick from receiving the necessary treatment and, in the worst case, the lives that could have been saved under normal conditions are lost. We must do everything in our power not to end up in that situation ourselves. The safety of Finns is the most important thing for Finns. The Finns presented the introduction of the Emergency Act and the closure of schools and borders on Thursday last week. Therefore, the Finns of Peru support the introduction of the Emergency Act and the necessary measures to be taken through it. We believe that the articles of the Emergency Act that are now being introduced are justified and proportionate. True Finns, however, go through all the decrees issued by the Government under the Emergency Act. This is a nation-wide issue that does not look at political ideology. We're gonna get through this together. Mr. Speaker! Exceptional circumstances require people to have a long temper and to endure. Healthcare workers are already facing a particularly challenging situation in their already heavy occupations. Similarly, the police, rescue workers, border guards and many other professions bear great responsibility for the success of our nation in this crisis. Workers in the trade sector, as well as many other workers essential for security of supply, also play a particular role. Everyone is needed to run the everyday life of exceptional conditions, everyone’s work is important, and everyone can help with their own actions. True Finns do everything in their power to support Finnish workers in these exceptional circumstances. Mr. Speaker! The exceptional situation is very detrimental to business activity. Companies that cannot operate under exceptional circumstances are in serious difficulties. The livelihood of many entrepreneurs and employees is under threat. True Finns support measures to help companies overcome the crisis. When the income of companies freezes, expenditure must also be frozen. In this situation, the social partners must also see the common interest and work together. Similarly, central government finances should be taken care of even in exceptional circumstances. In the event of a reduction in tax revenues, the State must be prepared to act in order to safeguard the economy. The Finns believe that every euro is expensive when our economy and society are maintained in times of crisis and then rebuilt. Economic policy must be increasingly responsible in these times. Finland must focus on building its own economy. Development aid expenditure, multiple immigration costs and subsidies from political organisations are examples of expenditure that must be cut in order to defend the well-being of Finland under these circumstances. In times of crisis, when government expenditure increases dramatically, less necessary expenditure needs to be cut. So the Finns are calling for a responsible economic policy, even if it seems difficult to do so. Mr. Speaker! I am sure that the Finnish people will be able to face and cope with exceptional circumstances. Another spirit of winter war — unity. It is essential for Parliament that citizens can count on decision-makers in all their actions to defend their interests and everyone to participate in the work for the benefit of a common country. The whole Parliament should be kept up to date in exceptional circumstances and in the preparation process, so that parliamentary work is also done together. I wish everyone strength and endurance in the struggle to safeguard the health of the nation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u7	Mr President! In tough places, we Finns are always at our best. Whenever there was a need for it, we have been able to leave our differences behind and work together. Today we need that spirit of national unity again. Mr President! Yesterday, in cooperation with the President of the Republic, the government decided to introduce very strong measures to slow down the corona virus epidemic. The exceptional nature of the situation is underlined by the fact that the Emergency Act has never been introduced before in peacetime. The Coalition Party fully supports these means and the adoption of the Emergency Act. With this decision, Parliament gives the Government an exceptional mandate to bring solutions to the crisis. The Government should use the mandate wisely and keep the Parliament sufficiently informed and in a timely manner. We'd rather do more and sooner than less and too late. I believe that, at the moment, everyone in this Chamber can share this idea. In time, the future and history will show whether our decision was the right one. In the light of best expert knowledge, it seems to be the most sensible solution today. For the nation as a whole, the fight against the Korona virus is huge. That's why it's important that we support each other. It is particularly important to provide support to those who, at the risk of their own health, help and serve others in this situation: those working in hospitals, health centres and the police, and those working in services in day-care centres, schools, pharmacies, public transport, local shops and the production of Finnish food. Each one of us also has concerns about our loved ones. Now it's time to call the parents and the grandparents. Contact those who, for one reason or another, have been overlooked. So let's take care of each other. Fortunately, in the midst of a crisis and uncertainty there is also a good thing: the desire to help people. Heat and love of neighbor for fellow humans. In the midst of the crisis, we already have great examples of this: help for the older person next door. Activation of NGOs. Or teachers who share help with each other in providing distance education. This makes you feel confident: Our Finland is a good country. We're gonna be fine. We're gonna be fine. We're gonna be fine. Mr President! We are also very concerned about entrepreneurs, people's jobs and people's livelihoods. Healthy businesses must be helped to overcome this crisis, because the damage is permanent and massive if we do not take specific action quickly. The government's action yesterday is a good start. People have an acute need for their livelihood. Tens of thousands of service workers, sole entrepreneurs and employers of different sizes today are wondering how they will pay their bills tomorrow. They need an answer to these as soon as possible. We are bringing forward proposals for measures to support workers and entrepreneurs who have lost their customers at the risk of lay-off. We hope for this joint national effort, and we offer all our help and support to the government in this work. Mr President! The whole world we know is in a state of emergency. Finland is in an exceptional state. Let’s do this together with effort, so that everyone does their part — everyone according to their abilities. The effects of the Corona virus will be significant and partly permanent. We already know that we are facing major challenges even after this corona virus. Now, however, we are focusing on stopping this disease. Clear decisions and policies were needed from the government. They also got them. In times of uncertainty, the ability to make decisions is essential. The same determination is needed in the future. Let's do everything we can to help Finns and Finland cope with the difficult situation. Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u8	Mr President! This evening we are dealing with a proposal that we would never have hoped and believed we would be dealing with here in Parliament. There is a threat in the midst of us that is new, partly unknown, and the worst of all: invisible. However, its effects are already visible in the everyday lives of everyone in Finland. During the Winter War in Sweden, they said, "Finlands sak är vår." Now it's up to Finland. The President of the Republic and the Government have identified exceptional circumstances in one country due to the risk of the spread and spread of the corona virus. Exceptions are made on the basis of the common view of the President, the Government and Parliament. From the outset, I would like to warmly thank the parliamentary groups in the opposition for their constructive cooperation in dealing with this crisis. The strength of a small country lies in its unity. It is hoped that cooperation will help to demonstrate the seriousness of the situation. There is no restriction on schooling and people-to-people contact and there is no unnecessary closure of Finland's borders. Mr. Speaker! According to Article 7 of the Finnish Constitution, everyone has the right to life and security. The only reason why exceptions are taking place in Finland is that the whole of Finland and all Finns would get over this scourge with minimal damage. The most important thing is people's health. The interest rate is the most dangerous for those over 70 years of age and those who have lost their immune system due to serious illness. We must now keep the elderly in particular and those who have predisposed diseases safe. This solution will cause problems and great damage to the economy, but ultimately the main task of the state is to safeguard people's lives and health. However, it is not enough for society alone to put its resources into protecting the weakest. Now we all have to follow the instructions of the authorities in our everyday lives. We must also protect those professionals who work in care, care, shopping and many other areas to cope with this situation. The Government will ensure the functioning of health care through an additional budget. In such situations, security of supply in society is emphasised. Self-sufficiency in food, energy and medicine is never out of date. People are rightly concerned about their own livelihoods. The success of our country's companies will be supported by extensive measures. The Government will discuss the necessary solutions with social partners and entrepreneurs. Now, if ever, cooperation is needed in order to save as many Finnish jobs as possible. Mr. Speaker! We now need national unity and love of neighbor. Helping neighbors and relatives to overcome this situation. Parents need support and young people need to work on school education as they move to remote education. By using our own consumption to support Finnish companies and entrepreneurs, for example, by buying gift cards and shopping online. However, Finland, and especially the municipalities and cities of our country, have been very well prepared for exceptional circumstances in general. Yesterday I attended a meeting of my municipality of residence, Kauhava city, the city council, and it was comforting to see how well my own municipality had already prepared for this situation. According to studies, Finland is the best-managed country in the world. We're gonna make it. Finnish civil society and a strong organisation field are our strengths in a pandemic situation. For example, learning about everything in voluntary national defence work, first aid courses or contract fire brigades is useful in this situation. The road will be long and heavy, but together we will survive. Mr President! The central parliamentary group supports the restrictive measures decided and the introduction of the Emergency Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u9	Mr President, ärade talman! We have had the privilege of living in a stable country where the idea of a state of emergency has been something distant, something that happens in other countries, in another time. Now we are the people whose job is to take Finland through an exceptional crisis. There is a time ahead of us that will change this country. We'll decide which way to go together. We are taking absolutely exceptional measures to stop the epidemic. We are now protecting our grandmothers and grandfathers, our fathers and mothers, and the already sick people to whom the virus can be fatal. We move on to exceptional circumstances to protect our loved ones. Mr President, ärade talman! The epidemic scares and distresses many. I'm sure I'm not the only one who's lost his nerve explaining to her on the phone why a grandchild can't visit now and why we have to miss that ticket to the theater tonight. Many elderly people face lonely days and lonely weeks. Libraries, theatres and swimming pools close their doors. No hobbies or day activities are organised. The visits of the loved ones to care facilities and hospitals will be stopped. At the same time, they are obliged to keep their distance from us. But physical distance must not mean leaving alone. I want you to write messages. Put a letter in the shopping bag behind the door. Set up a family group at WhatsApp. Send me some videos of the grandkids. Call me, talk to me, listen to me. We now keep their physical distance from love. In all other respects, now is the time to keep loved ones even closer. Mr President, ärade talman! Our children will remember the coming weeks and months of their lives. Schools close their doors. We're out of football practice. There's no dancing lessons. At the end of local education, children must continue to receive high-quality education. Teachers also need support now. Other children are hit harder by closing schools than others. We must take care of those for whom home is not always a safe place and for whom school food has been the only warm meal of the day. You can't leave anyone alone right now. Children must be able to trust that they are safe. The adults will take care of this. The child's only responsibility is to remember to wash his hands. Mr President, ärade talman! The world is in this crisis together. We are looking for solutions and a cure by working together. We only close our borders so we can reopen them. We are restricting our freedom only so that the restrictions on freedom can be lifted again. We need each other now. The only reason they win interest is because the whole world is fighting it. However, we are faced with tough weeks and months. A lot of people are going to get infected. The concern for the loved ones is great now. The epidemic is slowed down so that health care is not overloaded and the severely ill are treated. Doctors, nurses, paramedics, local nurses and cleaners are now doing invaluable work throughout the country. These people deserve all our support and all our gratitude. Taking care of the virus is not going to get caught in the funding. Every one of us can do our part now. The better we follow the recommendations, the sooner we get back to normal everyday life. However, it may take a long time. There are no quick solutions, and this will not be easy. Mr President, ärade talman! People in this country have always shown their best in times of difficulty. We are at our best when we put our interests aside and concentrate on working for each other, for those who are weak. The extraordinary time and the unity of Finns in the crisis are also visible in this Chamber. In particular, I would like to thank the opposition. The fights are buried when it's real. The whole parliament, the whole of Finland now shoulders responsibility together to ensure that our parents and grandparents are safe. They've been working for us all their lives. Now it's our turn. We're doing this for them, and we're gonna get through this. Mr President, ärade talman! The Green Parliamentary Group supports the Government's efforts to deal with the epidemic and supports the introduction of the Emergency Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u10	Mr President! We are moving to an extraordinary time. The Government, together with the President of the Republic, has stated that there is an emergency situation in Finland. The law of readiness should not be taken lightly. We are talking about an exception from the Constitution and a centralisation of power over the government by a parliament elected by the people. Responsible decision-makers cannot take measures that have never been taken before in peace. It is an unprecedented restriction on citizens' rights and freedoms in our free society. Restrictions make life difficult for each of us, but all that has to be done, according to experts, is effective and reasonable. Mr President! The functioning of health care must now be secured, epidemic peaked and the necessary treatment ensured. There are exceptions to the working hours of health care personnel and more people can be invited to work. The care workers deserve our appreciation every day of the year, but in the coming weeks and months their contribution will be more important than ever. The closure of schools is also an exceptional measure in the history of our country. Regardless of the situation in homes, children's well-being and the possibility of learning must be safeguarded. Too many children have had their only warm meal of the day at school. Helping services are needed in exceptional circumstances for both children and adults. When the services close their doors, the safety nets must not collapse, but society must also support them in exceptional circumstances. The situation is completely exceptional and unique in the history of Finland. We parliamentarians have many questions and perhaps even more for other citizens. In view of the exceptional situation, it is also fair to admit that there are still no models or answers to many questions. At the same time, solutions and answers are being sought and prepared all the time. Mr President! In particular, the obligation to isolate older people is a humane burden. But at the heart of everything is the need to protect risk groups and vulnerable people. Even if we avoid physical contact, we can all make sure that the elderly are not left alone. The connection should be by phone and electronic means, children and grandchildren can go under the balcony for a chat, for example. Neighborhood aid is now also becoming unpredictable. However, legislation and restrictions are only instruments for protecting society, but ultimately each of us is responsible for slowing down the corona epidemic and for protecting groups at risk. People of working age and healthy people must also avoid contact and stay at home as far as possible. Still, you should take a walk, enjoy the outdoors, take care of your well-being and well-being. Even if we don't face face-to-face, we need to maintain contact. Although many work at home, for many teleworking is not an option. In addition to our medical staff, those who keep the general facilities clean and clean, grocery stores and pharmacies open, provide food production, protect our safety, care for those who need day care, or otherwise keep our society running. We must all act in such a way that we do not put them at risk. Mr President! The impact on the economy is now severe. All companies, but especially self-employed and small enterprises, are in real trouble when demand collapses. Many people are in danger of losing their jobs and their livelihoods. We citizens can, as far as we can, support entrepreneurs, but there is now a need for massive financial support from the state for people and businesses. How do we secure our livelihood for those hourly workers who ran out of work like a wall? And how can parents who do not have a remote job be able to care for their children at home? How do we take care of those who have had to resort to bread lines? We have no direct answers to our concerns yet, but we are working on them all the time. Mr President! Now we have to take care of unity and help each other. There are difficult and extraordinary times ahead, and many of us are afraid, but together we will get through this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u11	Irade the Talman! Regeringen har i går fattat beslut om kraftiga åtgärder — om exceptionella åtgärder — för att bekämpa coronaviruset i Finland. Det är första gången i fredstid som beredskapslagen föreslås träda i kraft. Det handlar om 19 punkter, 19 åtgärder för att skydda befolkningen, våra medmänniskor, och trygga samhällets function. Ettersom vi nu i Finland befinner oss i undantagsförhållanden kommer vi att ta i bruk en del verktyg som delvis begränsar det vardagsliv vi är vana vid. Svenska riksdagsgruppen vill undertryka att vi gör det rai för att skydda våra äldre och andra som tillhör riskgrupperna. Vi gör det som är ödvändigt för att skydda våra medmanniskor på bästa öjliga sätt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u12	Mr President, värderade talman! The Christian Democratic Parliament supports the introduction of the Emergency Act and the government's proposed measures to slow down the spread of the corona virus. We support the clear objective of protecting the most vulnerable citizens. We all need to be ready now to change our daily lives for each other's good.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u13	Mr President, ärade talman! We are now living in a state of emergency, that is clear. People are worried because they don't know what's going to happen and what's going to happen to them. In such a situation, a sense of security is created by clear instructions on how to act. That is what the government is responsible for, and the decisions it made yesterday are exactly what is needed for this moment. The movement has now been in favour of the adoption of the Emergency Act all along. It is now necessary and gives the government the tools to act in a situation that may require even tougher action. The president and the government have done a good job. But there's one wish I'd have: With this financial package, companies will not survive. Additional borrowing is not possible when there is no cash flow. We need direct financial assistance, as in Sweden and Denmark. These countries pay directly between 50% and 75% of the salaries of workers at risk of dismissal. It'll help with the cash crisis. I therefore hope that the government will help the companies, because there is not much time and otherwise there will be an ugly result. I would like to emphasise and remind you that, when we help companies to survive, we are primarily helping to preserve people's jobs. Finland is a country of small businesses, and it is they who do not have buffers in these exceptional times. Finally, I would like to make a wish. My mother is over 90 years old, and we have made clear plans to help her in this situation. But I have often wondered how old people who don't have safety nets like my mother do. I hope that we will also help those who are not our own family. There are many good examples of this, so let us continue in the same way. We're gonna get through this together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u14	Mr President! We live in extraordinary conditions. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for being jointly responsible and for being united in this matter. These decisions are not light, they are not easy. They are difficult and heavy, but I am convinced that they must nevertheless be done. We now have to put up with uncertainty and abandon our usual ways of doing things, for the benefit of other people. It is the responsibility of each of us to protect our own health and the health of others. At the same time as we face an acute crisis, we must also be able to look beyond the crisis and build a bridge to a prosperous and economically sustainable society. This work has already begun, but we also have to put up with uncertainty in this regard. It must be acknowledged to ourselves that we do not yet know or anticipate everything that is going to happen. Yet I am confident that Finland will survive this too. Society works today, and it works tomorrow. I would also like to inform the Members of Parliament that I have to leave this sitting for the European Council. I'll come back to this hall, but this is a duty that needs to be dealt with. We have ministers here, and I am sure we will be here late in the evening to continue the sitting. We are in this situation together, and so I would at least like to think that, in the midst of such a crisis and such a situation in this Chamber, there are no opposition parties, no government parties — here are the representatives and people of the Finnish nation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u15	Then let's go to the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u16	Mr. Speaker! We're not medical experts here. If anything, we are experts in the management of common policy issues, and as such it is easy to say that the government's proposals are both acceptable and necessary. On the other hand, it is not quite as clear how, on the other hand, they would be sufficient or effective to limit this epidemic, and the experts are also uncertain about this. However, we are following the mainstream views of experts as well as the precautionary principle when we adopted the proposals. In circumstances of uncertainty, it is better to overreact than to under-react, and all instructions and regulations given must always be scrupulously followed. Fortunately, we live in an organised welfare state such as Finland, where the chances of survival do not depend on wealth or social status. Inequality kills, community is our strength. This is not the last time we face such a situation in the present world of interdependence, and it is therefore important that, in time, when it is possible to do so after the acute situation has passed, all the experiences that have now been accumulated are carefully reviewed and evaluated in a cross-disciplinary way, what was done correctly, what might have been done differently and also on the basis of cost-benefit analyses. In a world of interdependence, we share a shared responsibility and all the experiences we get here and what others get from elsewhere are our common world heritage,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u17	Mr President! In relation to the corona virus, Finland is in a situation where it is justified to introduce a state of preparedness. The state of readiness requires exceptional circumstances, and exceptional circumstances require leadership, and now that leadership is reasonably demonstrated. However, the measures that are being proposed are not particularly burdensome in international comparisons and will also be very late. Last Thursday's Question Time called for school closure and ready-to-ready. At that time, the government saw no need for school closures and no justification for the Emergency Act. In the ranks of the government parties there were even slighting shades of tone. However, practically all the relevant information was already available on Thursday, and the direction of the government changed quite radically this weekend, and the opposition, at least in my view, was not informed of the reason for this change of direction. Perhaps these are the reasons we will hear here. I would like to give the government one piece of advice: experts are not decision-makers. We're the decision-makers here. Of course, experts should be consulted — experts may be right, may be wrong, may agree with one another or disagree — but we are those who have the responsibility and authority to take decisions. We are responsible for the decisions of the people, not the experts. Mr President! There is still at least one major gap in the government's situation picture. At the press conference today, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Ohio, said that despite this closure of borders and the restrictive measures, asylum seekers will continue to be the same. This is incomprehensible on the basis of the broad public's feedback. The borders are closed to ordinary people, Finns are forced to compromise their freedom of movement, our children’s schools are closed, our economy is collapsing — yet the only thing that can still come across the borders is to seek a better standard of living.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u18	Mr President! There are certain things in politics that are worth nationalising and having a debate in the Chamber, and there are certain things in which it is worth finding unity rather than disunity very quickly. And in this case, as far as the serious risk of life and health is concerned — however wide it eventually becomes — we do not know yet, but the risk is serious — that is why the forces in Finland must be united, from the esson bar to the government institutions, that is obvious. Now that we see how different countries around the world react to this: the government can take action by different laws, but whether all societies act in the same tone — that is what this is all about. Such nations will ultimately succeed in this crisis and in subsequent crises — they are economics or security — that are able to pull together, especially in the face of an external threat. Finland is well prepared in all sectors of society, not only in terms of the health system, but also in terms of the ability of all our authorities to cope with such crises. The health system is world-class, as are security systems, border security systems. Similarly, our legislation has been drafted in such a way that, according to the Act on communicable diseases, the means decided upon by the Government have already been in place. In other words, we are not here in a situation where there is an acute pandemic threat and we need to take 200 representatives to the hall to decide whether a doctor can isolate someone or whether schools can be closed or restricted if there is a health threat — it can already be done on the basis of the current Act on communicable diseases. Now that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u19	Mr President! In its Article 3, the Emergency Act defines exceptional circumstances. It states that exceptional conditions have included ‘a high-risk infectious disease which is particularly serious as a result of a major accident’. The President of the Republic, in cooperation with the government, has come to the conclusion that the interest rate meets the definition of exceptional circumstances. That is why we are now in this sitting. Government cannot play a more important role than to ensure the health and safety of citizens. We are now in the midst of these core tasks. As Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I would like to highlight the efforts that society is making to ensure the functioning of health care in all circumstances. The Act on Preparedness is needed to complement the Act on communicable diseases and other legislation in that all means are available to safeguard human health. In particular, older people and other risk groups now need protection against the corona virus. I trust that we younger and basic healthy citizens will want to do everything in our power to ensure that our neighbours in a particular group of people at risk receive special care. Finnish healthcare personnel are committed and highly competent. In the next few weeks and this spring, the staff will be under a lot of pressure. They are also at risk when treating corona patients. We must do everything in our power to safeguard their work and to make their daily lives easier for them. This means, for example, that urgent care needs are abandoned and early childhood education and basic education in the lowest classes of care staff are safeguarded. Many homes are concerned about livelihoods. The government, the Social Insurance Institution and the unemployment funds must be prepared to have the rapid capacity and capacity to secure the loss of people's livelihoods in terms of unemployment benefits and sickness and infectious disease allowances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u20	Mr President! This crisis requires, in particular, an exceptionally strong combination of coal from the country's leadership. We must do everything we can to protect life, perhaps the most fundamental human right. It requires strict action, and the Emergency Act opens the door to really strict restrictions on people's freedom and everyday lives. However, these restrictions only work if we jointly shoulder the responsibility to contain the crisis. Those restrictions are only the minimum for that shared responsibility. Now, if ever, all of us are calling for cross-border solidarity and shared responsibility. My grandparents are in my mind all the time, and because of them and their peers, I am truly grateful to every basic healthy young person who now plans his whole life again, not primarily for himself, but for the risk groups. It is precisely this responsibility and solidarity that are the cornerstones of this society, the fundamental values that make Finland the happiest country in the world. In times of difficulty, these values rise to unpredictable value. This must also be borne in mind for those who flee from war, persecution and death. Now we're being tested, but together we're gonna get through this. In the midst of the crisis, too, it should be remembered that this will have long marks, especially in the case of many young people. Springs are usually the time when the future opens in front of young people. Now we must work together to ensure that this is the case in the middle of a crisis. Schools, polytechnics, universities are closed, matriculation exams are brought forward just in order to secure life, and so many students become concerned. Now we have to take care of those suffering under this stress and anxiety, the elderly, everyone whose everyday life these restrictions hit, because this crisis will not pass in a moment and just by taking care of each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u21	Mr President! Finland’s state of emergency receives its material content in the regulations we are discussing here this week. Nothing can be provided for under exceptional circumstances, measures must be necessary, proportionate and cannot be implemented within the framework of other legislation. Furthermore, the human rights of vulnerable groups must be safeguarded even in exceptional circumstances. That is what I am particularly concerned about. There is a great deal of responsibility for these restrictive measures, which in themselves also affect human health and safety. It is likely that the restrictive measures already decided will also cost lives. Weighing makes it difficult that, although we know little about the virus, it is quite easy to assess its movements compared to all the consequences of the restrictive measures in society that we have to take to contain it. This is not easy to tick, and we will inevitably have to rely on incomplete information. Mr President! While we are fighting in this crisis, we must be aware that this is very likely not the last and most difficult crisis in Finland. Even in optimistic climate scenarios alone, global warming alone will bring us worse shocks in the future. We must now also remember to ask what we will do if, even now, we have the strongest means at our disposal. Is there perhaps something we can learn from this crisis to transform society into a different kind of society, which increases the resilience of society and the ability to respond to the bumps that we will encounter as a nation in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u22	Mr President, värderade talman! Finland och hela världen befinner sig i en exceptionell location. I svåra lägen frövas både samhället och den enskilda individen, men vi har lyckan att bo i ett land med strukturer och beredskap att öta också slötsliga landsomfattande hot. Därför är det nu viktigt att vi följer de anvisningar och begränsningar som statsrådet har utfäst och de reservationner som beredskapslagen ger öjlighet till. Det är också nödvändigt att poängtera att information till medborgarna ska sk på våra båda nationalspråk och vara tillgänglig för alla som bor i vårt land, för olika åldrar och via olika medier. Vi finländare måste ta vårt ansvar och leva så att så få som öjligt smittas eller blir allvarligt sjuka. Det är de äldre och de svaga som nu måste skyddas. Vardage ser annorlunda ut.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u23	Mr President! Today it is time to strongly support the government in the introduction of the powers of the Emergency Act. Our greatest common concern will be the serious forms of corona infection in the coming weeks. Experts have warned us that within the next six months tens of thousands of Finns may need intensive care and, at best, with existing resources only some of them would be able to do so. That is precisely why we need a strong brake on this epidemic, a reduction in infection and this introduction of the Emergency Act. At the same time, the capacity for intensive care needs to be strengthened rapidly. In particular, additional urgent training is needed for staff and the adequacy of equipment and supplies must also be ensured. A preparedness law is also necessary because, where necessary, companies can also be obliged to produce new products that will become short-lived over time, such as protective equipment and disposable equipment and, for example, equipment and equipment for breathing. The teacher of the vocational school told me today that work is now being done from morning to evening to organising distance education. There's a lot more work to be done than in normal time. Early educators, teachers, cleaners, pharmacists, family carers, doctors and nurses will be under a lot of pressure in the coming weeks, and many service workers, such as store cashiers and taxi drivers, will expose themselves to possible infections in their service.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u24	Mr President! Thank you for your question. The Government has decided on restrictions on border traffic within the framework of normal legislation. Sections 15 and 16 of the Border Guard They've had our hearings today. So we are not talking about the emergency law here, but we can act within the normal legal framework, and Article 16 provides that international protection can be applied for despite the closure of border crossing points. Of course, this has to do with Finland being the rule of law, which is committed to international obligations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u25	Mr President! We are in really challenging times, and the representatives are quite right that the introduction of the Emergency Act will give us much more opportunities in view of the challenges ahead. Firstly, many of you have raised individual problems and the major challenges ahead and have already considered the answers to these questions. The most important possibility of the Emergency Act being presented today is specifically related to the introduction of Article 86 of the Emergency Act. It now gives extensive powers to Finns to take care of the capacity of our entire healthcare system. It is intended to ensure that there is certainly a sufficient number of social and health care staff available in different regions, in every Finnish region, there are tools, there are capable people for the different types of care that are needed, including intensive care, and it also provides a wide range of opportunities to borrow these instruments in different regions. It is expected that the outbreak in Uusimaa will be the first in Finland with these figures and this situational information. It will then also be possible to obtain assistance in this area through staff from other regions, but also to use private resources in the region as necessary to deal with this acute situation. In this regard, it is very important that we also understand that the Emergency Act allows us to push all unscrambled activities out of the corona virus epidemic. This is a very demanding sport. A lot of people have been waiting for surgery. But, in particular, driving down unurgent surgery releases resources for intensive care. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u26	Mr President! Parliament has taken up this proposal for the introduction of this unique emergency law, which has been put forward by the Council of State, with the utmost devotion and unity. It is important that, in such a threat of a corona pandemic, the President of the Republic, the Government and parliamentary groups, the whole of Parliament, have been involved in decision-making and together have sought the interests of the entire nation. It is a good thing that the Act on preparedness adopted a couple of parliamentary term ago is up-to-date and works in very different crises. We do not have such an emergency law or an emergency law as in many countries that, at one time, there would be a huge military force of extraordinary powers, but that, as the case may be, exceptional powers can be introduced gradually, if necessary, and we do not need to think about all the things that will be needed over the next few months, but we can come back to this issue piece by piece. The Emergency Act is like a medical bag that takes instruments and medicines for the very diseases and problems that are at hand or at risk. These adoption regulations proposed by the Government are these instruments and the implementing regulations, which further limit and guide their use, are, as it were, manuals, which are needed in the medical bag to know how to give the right medicines and at the right pace. Parliament's task is to check that these Government proposals are in place, that priorities are correct and that fundamental rights have been respected.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u27	Mr President! Finland has moved on to exceptional circumstances. None of us know exactly what's going to happen. Uncertainty is one of the most disturbing emotions of man. However, we know that wherever the most radical measures have not been taken, the rate of growth of the epidemic is enormous. The introduction of the Emergency Act is a dramatic but clearly necessary measure to safeguard our country and our citizens. In the face of a threat to society as a whole, which is largely unknown, the strength of a stable and democratic community is transparency. People need to be explained why the fight against the epidemic is being conducted in the chosen way. It must also be acknowledged that it is not necessarily known where the chosen course of action leads. If the procedure needs to be corrected, that too must be done openly. Compromising transparency is part of a state of war that is not now in existence. Our common opponent is not a conniving foreign state, but a virus that does not benefit from the decision-makers opening up their own activities and the logic of the experts they use. We are not at war, although many memories of the community of war — real or imagined — have now been brought up. Mr President! In the war, the people were called to the heavy service on behalf of the Fatherland against a vast enemy. Now the enemy is invisible, and the best pragmatic way to fight it is to avoid human contact. It is precisely for this reason that the adoption of the Emergency Act is necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u28	Mr President! It is no longer possible to prevent the progression of the Korona virus, but to limit it and mitigate its effects, it is worth doing as much as possible, everything possible. It is therefore very good that the government has published restrictive measures and that we have today received regulations on the implementation of the Emergency Response Act in Parliament, thank you for that. Finland is well equipped to treat the epidemic. Among other things, our expertise has increased the pandemic of swine flu in 2009-2010. Mr President! Today we are dealing, among other things, with the limitation of the functions of the education, early childhood education and education sectors, the related regulation. Thousands of questions have been raised, since this regulation affects the everyday lives of families very much. There are no answers to all the questions yet, but they are constantly being supplemented here. Tomorrow, in the Committee on Culture, we will be hearing a representative from the Ministry of Education and Culture and also experts from the Finnish National Board of Education and we will also take a position on this regulation. Mr President! As experienced in the pandemic of swine flu, I can tell you that this ruliance is only in the early stages and we have a long way to go. Sometimes it may seem like a full-time ski without snow, but that's all it is now, and that's why we should all think about our own activities and help others. The resilience of the crisis must be strengthened, the resilience and, at the same time, the fight fatigue that inevitably comes must be prevented. But, good information is that Finland has always managed — so now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u29	Mr President! The proposed restrictive measures are considered and necessary. The most important thing is to secure the health and safety of citizens at home and outside the home. Although restrictive measures will cause discomfort in our daily lives, it is necessary to follow them conscientiously. It is also important to build an ark that, under the new circumstances, would make sense to structure a day. Schools mainly move to remote education, and it is now possible to test how distance education works. I have no doubt that distance learning will work, but I look forward to valuable information on how long it will seem to be a meaningful way of teaching. My concern is how to get the guardians of children and young people with the most brittle backgrounds to support their childhood education under new conditions that may last longer than the next four weeks. How can mass assembly restrictions be implemented, as required by the Emergency Act? It would be wonderful if children and young people were to be committed to their part in these restrictive measures. Because of their age and basic health status, they are not at risk but may be infecting, for example, their grandparents or other persons at risk. Forced and intimidation are not effective means in the longer run, but a consistent display of adults' own example and monitoring compliance with the guidelines, above all a discussion with children and young people on what the mitigation measures are aimed at. Citizens of all ages have an obligation to follow the guidelines intended for their reference group. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u30	Mr President! According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the corona virus is a very serious threat which should be prevented by means of drastic and rapid measures, rather than later, rather than less, in accordance with the precautionary principle. We need to test the progression of the virus. We must ensure that there is up-to-date information in all municipalities. We have to protect the risk groups, but at the same time we have to do a great deal to prevent the spread of the virus, because it is impossible to completely prevent the spread of the virus to the risk groups. Health care in any country will not last if the virus is allowed to spread. During the introduction of the Korona epidemic and the Emergency Act, we must remember that we live in an open democracy and act in such a way that we have all the information and arguments available. We now have a common goal to achieve the best possible solutions, and we must take into account the difficult and surprising situation facing us as decision-makers and authorities, and that by integrating research data in a skilful and comprehensive way into decision-making, we will be better able to do this. It should be borne in mind that researchers have very different areas of competence and angles, which at best complement each other, but it is also possible that we use research data in too much focus in a particular direction and miss areas. Care must be taken to ensure that international research data are available in a comprehensive way and not, for example, overly focused on a particular field of research. This is why it is really important to know which experts we use and what research data and why we use it. That is what we are doing in our hearings. It is a political crisis, a very big crisis for all of us, and the solutions to that crisis are not
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u31	Mr President! Care for human health is now a priority and it is therefore important that the government has taken responsible decisions to prevent the spread of the epidemic. At the same time, the interest rate also means a great deal of concern to many for their own livelihoods. The Finnish economy is hit hard by interest. Financial markets around the world have dived and many small entrepreneurs have been left without customers when people have left home. The tourism and restaurant sector has already come to a halt, and unemployment is increasing, especially in the services sector. We have huge numbers of small and larger companies whose cashiers will not be able to handle the current situation for many weeks. We do not even know yet how long the emergency conditions will have to continue. We must now do everything we can to ensure that people continue to have jobs and well-being, and that is why I am pleased that the government has started crisis action in all areas of society. If we allow the economic crisis to develop and trust that the market will manage things, then we have a situation far worse than the recession in the 1990s — and, as we know, the cost of the consequences of the recession in the 1990s is still being paid, even as social and health problems. We just can't afford to let the economy go into an uncontrollable collapse. Mr President! It is really important that the government is committed to protecting Finnish jobs in companies of all sizes. No viable jobs should be allowed to go bankrupt due to temporary financial and demand difficulties. Support and schemes for companies cannot be simply loan-oriented or deferment of various taxes and charges. Excessive reliance on these would mean that companies would later have to pay for a pot that they would not survive. In some cases, therefore, the State must, for example, also consider direct equity investments, i.e. participation in the capitalisation. We need workers, small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u32	Mr President, värderade talman! In this situation, of course, the priority is the health of the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u33	Mr President! The government has had to make a difficult decision. This decision protects the most dangerous people to whom the corona virus is the most dangerous. It's love of neighbor. Thank you to the government for your ability to act and for your courage!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u34	Mr President! In the speeches of many representatives today the word'school' has been repeated... [in the cut-off recording ] The fact that the word “school ” has been repeated here,is also important that the school is of the utmost
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u35	Then Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u36	Mr President! There is also, quite rightly, concern here about job security and the avoidance of unnecessary company bankruptcy. The government is now preparing proposals in a timely manner, and this will be done in cooperation with the social partners under my leadership. This proposal also includes the introduction of the Emergency Act by the adoption of regulations on the temporary amendment of certain provisions of the Employment Contracts Act, the Working Time Act and the Annual Holidays Act. In practice, this will now allow exceptional measures for people working in health care, social services, rescue services, emergency services and police services. In practice, these derogations can now be used to recall workers from their annual leave or, possibly, to postpone the use of their annual leave. Similarly, at the moment, the working time law already allows for emergency work to be carried out, but this exemption law, or the preparedness law, also allows employers to work overtime without the employee's consent or also to derogate from these provisions on duty breaks and weekly rest. And all these exceptional rules can be used, but here I would like to remind you of the concerns raised here too, that all these things must also be done in such a way as to ensure the health and safety of workers and that the burden of work is equally distributed among the workers. In other words, even in exceptional circumstances, health and safety at work must be taken care of. But these measures will only be introduced if the patient load is so high, the number of patients — and possibly the staff will also, and will, become ill, with these
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u37	Mr President! A lot of good speeches have been made here. Everyone has a common note: we are living in an exceptional time, that is why we need these extraordinary measures. This coronavirus crisis affects all of us Finns, and in terms of health care and health, the greatest risk groups are long-term ill people and older people. There are nearly one million people in Finland over 70 years of age, and these provisions of the Emergency Act are now aimed at treating them with caution such as quarantine. It is a very tough decision, but it is also a tough one. The risks are overwhelming. We have just given statistics on both Italy and Of the mortality rates of those affected by corona from China, and when viewed by age group, these risks open up to us in a very reduced way: 0.1 % of those who are less than 50 years old have died from corona, that is, per cent of those aged 50 to 60 have died, 3 % of those aged 60 to 70 have died, every 10 to 80 years have died, and 20 % of those aged over 80 have already died. This will reduce the situation. But it is good to remember that loneliness is already a major problem for many elderly people and we have an enormous number of elderly people who are unable to get help now. So we must remember that we cannot leave older people behind. Despite the fact that we physically take distance and emotional intimacy,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u38	Mr President! The introduction of the Emergency Act is absolute and, thank you, the government, we are now in this situation and tightening things up. We have been hit by a huge wave of epidemics, which has already shown the world what is to come. More and more Finns will also suffer from this disease. So it is very important that not everyone gets sick at the same time, but that the peak of disease can be evened out. That is why these restrictive measures are very important if we are to have enough medical staff to have sufficient hospital facilities, emergency rooms, emergency rooms and intensive care facilities that have been very much mentioned here. People are scared for a reason. Fear should not be fomented, but we speak realistically and the government has told us what and what the lives of Finns will be like in the coming months. We're all in this same boat. I have a phone ringing and a lot of messages, everyday questions — can I go to the store, can I go out, who can visit me — questions people want answers to, and what I have been able to do I have tried to answer. Recently, I received a message from a mother whose daughter is a nearby nurse, and she asked how to protect those nurses who themselves have a disease that may predispose them to this infection. In what way, government, would you answer this? You're about to change this, § 87. I would like to ask whether it also means that medicines and medical supplies stay here in Finland within our borders, that nothing is sold abroad either. Then I would ask about the flights home because there has also been a message from abroad that how do I get to my country because the flights are on ice. There were a few questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u39	Mr President! The government's actions seem reasonable, but here are three economic aspects: Firstly, this is certainly a situation in which public finances must be used as a buffer for such shock. But let us remember that economic policy is always more flexible, the stronger the long-term outlook. The neighbouring country makes a cool investment of SEK 300 billion and can do so without blinking when the employment rate is high and the public finances are strong. Only a country with a tight budget can afford a keynsianism, let us remember this. Secondly, the corona crisis is precisely a temporary economic disturbance. It is typical that, in the midst of the crisis, it is assumed that the world has changed permanently, but it is unlikely that this will happen. Globalisation and the market economy are not ending, even if many so wish, for the simple reason that they bring people the growing prosperity that even those who deny growth in this Chamber want, at least whenever public services and income transfers are discussed. At some point, this crisis will be over. This is the third point. This crisis does not mean that the long-term problems of Finnish public finances have gone away. We were already in an unsustainable career before the crisis, and after the crisis we are even more clearly in it. There is not the slightest reason to abandon the government's requirements for strengthening public finances and employment. On the contrary, the need for structural reforms is growing as a result of the crisis, not decreasing. I very much hope that this House will not go on flirting with the ideas that employment objectives should be forgotten in this turmoil. They need to be lifted up more firmly on the pedestal, and I will remind the government of that. I promise I'll do it before the ratings do it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u40	Mr President! We live in extraordinary times. Invisible, yet in many ways unknown, coronavirus is a major threat to Finnish society. Words are difficult to set, because uncertainty is great. But one thing's for sure. The most important issue now is human health and safety. That is why the introduction of the Emergency Response Act and the substantial measures involved are necessary, and there seems to be a broad consensus in the Chamber — thanks to everyone. Special thanks go first and foremost to those who, even under exceptional circumstances, are working hard for all of us. Mr President! The economic effects of interest are considerable and cause many people to worry about their own and their loved ones' livelihoods. It is therefore necessary to build a bridge for businesses and entrepreneurs to overcome this difficult and surprising situation. The crisis is a very tangible reminder to us all of the importance of a decentralised society and self-sufficiency. These will have to be taken care of in the future. Although Finland is now physically shutting down, we are not shutting down from each other. People have shown each other warmth and solidarity in the face of a common challenge. There was a local entrepreneur in distress or an unknown neighbor in need of help for a shopping trip, we now take more account of each other. In front of the Korona, we are one. The invisible threat around us will not prevail over our community. Together, we will also face this challenge.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u41	Mr President! It is clear that life and health are certainly our most important values, and it is precisely in order to safeguard these values that we will introduce exceptional preparedness laws, but then we will have to find the capacity in this Chamber to safeguard people's finances, jobs and livelihoods. I would like to raise two groups which are particularly threatened by this difficult and difficult situation. There are about 280,000 companies in Finland, but one in five entrepreneurs earns less than EUR 15,000 a year. It is these smallest small businesses and entrepreneurs who must be under special protection. It is great that the government has already come up with a big package to secure the livelihood of companies, but that money must also provide the means to safeguard these smallest companies. The second group I would like to raise is the Finns in enforcement, which are more than half a million. The debtors are mostly of working age, low-skilled and single-habiting age, more and more women. A large proportion of these people are now experiencing real anxiety and grief in order to secure their everyday everyday everyday life. I hope that the government will be prepared to secure the livelihoods of these people and these groups, as well as other groups at risk.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u42	Mr President! The situation of children and young people, especially in fragile situations, is now of great concern. As Mr Arhinmäki said in his group statement, and also Mr Kari, there are a lot of people for whom home is certainly not the safest place, and there are a lot of schoolchildren for whom school food is the only warm meal of the day. Consideration must be given to how to guarantee high-quality distance education and mental support for all children. For one reason or another, not all parents have the same opportunities to support their children at home in remote education. Children’s background influences learning outcomes already, and in remote education the importance of background is probably only emphasised. How, then, is the fact that these new policies do not further deepen the plight of those in a fragile position? And how do we support children’s social relations in such new situations? Mr President! In early childhood education there is concern about the health of staff members of high-risk groups. Parents are now required to stretch when children are recommended to take home as far as possible. You can stay at home with a child, for example, when you have been able to agree with your employer to work at a distance or free time — not everyone has done so. In this situation, employers are also encouraged to be flexible and to understand the contribution of parents of young children. Together, we must do all we can to ensure that there is a sufficient number of healthy staff in the early education of children working in critical sectors of our society. How will the health and safety of staff at risk in early childhood education be guaranteed in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u43	Ärade Herr Talman! Ordet undantagstillstånd beskriver rådande situation på ett correct stätt. Det är verklogen inget normallage. Vi kommer dock ta oss igenom denna kris på mosmätt som alla tidigare kriser. För att göra det är det dock viktigt att följa myndigheternas anvisningar och rekommendationer. Av den anledningen är det också oerhört viktigt att all samhällsinformation ges på både finska och svenska. Att statsrådet började simultantolka regeringens press conferenceer från och med i dag är rauta en mycket viktig och en valdigt bra sak. Tack också till Yle för det. Institutet för halsa och valfärd THL har också ett viktigt ansvar att säkerstalla att de dagliga uppdatteringarna kommer på svenska. Information bidror till att minska pineskors osäkerhet samt också risken att phelaktiga fact sprids i samhället. Informationsbehovet är för tilfället enormt, vilket är naturligt då samhället har en kris. Därför är det också så viktigt att hellre informationera för mycket än för lite — på både finska och svenska.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u44	Mr President! Finland has a real state of emergency caused by the spread of the corona virus. For a few weeks now, we have been eagerly waiting for the government to take strong measures to prevent the spread of this virus infection, and thank you for finally getting the regulations of the Emergency Act on the introduction and application of the procedure. They're really necessary. In addition to the decision-makers in this Chamber, every decision-makers and civil servant in the municipality, every citizen must now, at the latest, awaken and take seriously the spread of the corona virus and the situation it causes and strictly follow all the instructions given. As a specialist, every citizen in this situation is part of medical care. Everyone must play their part in limiting the spread of the corona virus. The disease can be carried and infected even asymptomaticly, which is why contact should really be avoided. Instead, remote communication, help and encouragement should be given and given daily to each other. Chronic diseases should be cared for as well as possible, and mild symptoms of infection should be treated at home. Similarly, medical care should only be in contact when there is a real need, and we decision-makers should contribute to the most effective functioning of health care. Risk groups, elderly people must be taken care of, both for those who are here in Finland and for those who wish to go abroad to Finland. Rubber bikes meet closed borders, and the flights of blue and white wings are full or cancelled. I therefore ask how the government will help the Finns home: can we get extra flights and green lines across Europe for those who want to go home? And are people in Finland prepared to experiment with highly symptomatic drugs that have produced good results in China for corona infection and which, for example, have been introduced for experimental use in Israel? There are many questions, there is a need for good, seamless cooperation, and I wish the government and everyone wisdom, strength and blessing in all actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u45	I will also give the floor to Mr Kiuru and Mr Haraka, who have been mentioned on the basis of these questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u46	Mr President! This is a very exceptional situation where Finland is at the moment. This is a very serious situation in many respects, and I thank Parliament for the valuable debate that has taken place here and also for the seriousness that it requires. Because we have an acutely large epidemic that raises deep concerns about Finns, the government has taken very hard measures to slow down and prevent it. When we get out of this acute health crisis that is now facing this country with this epidemic, we will also have very serious economic consequences for all of this. And we have been aware of all this, but even more important than the economy is that every Finn can be safe for his health and safety in this country. But we also have to take care of its economy, and this will have a significant impact on our businesses, on people's jobs, at this moment, and there is a great deal of need, so the government has also had to act very massively on the economy immediately and at the first stage. In other words, the rapid measures that we are able to launch immediately, we will be able to mobilise some EUR 5 billion. It is Finnvera's guarantees, it is the State Pension Fund's business papers, it is a quick tax system, it is almost EUR 1.5 billion of changes to the payment system, and all of this becomes the first package, but we need more action, it is quite clear, and it is always being prepared. And what will come of the time when this crisis is over — after that, yes, we need a great deal of work that: Finland is once again catching up in the economy with the growth that will inevitably start at some point in Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u47	Mr President! In this speech, Mr Juvonen raised the issue of medicines and the availability of medicines in Finland. The Board of Directors has today provided for the immediate introduction of the powers provided for in Article 87 of the Emergency Act by means of an implementing regulation. This means that we can limit the sale of medicines, goods and services used in health care, but at the same time I would like to say that we do not currently have a shortage of medicines in Finland. These warehouses in Finland have well ensured that all Finns have access to these medicines, and we really do have the medicines in Finland well secured, and all Finnish pharmaceutical service operators share the same will that this will also be maintained. These reserves of obligations are now secured so that medicines cannot be sold out. We are also the only country in Europe where such a reserve of obligations exists. With this regulation, which has been laid down today, we can secure the availability of medicines in Finland and also ensure the functioning of Finnish medical treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u48	Mr President! There has already been a good debate and a very good sense of crisis in many speeches. Representatives Juvonen and Tanus asked what happens to Finnish tourists in this situation. First of all, the government urges those who are on their way to return home. Now is the time to go back to Finland and at this point, independently obtain a ticket, change a ticket, discuss with an airline or another airline or travel agency how to get here as soon as possible. Of course, this does not apply to those who have a permanent residence somewhere that is permanently located elsewhere, but to tourists who might be trapped when borders are closed on different sides: now is the time to return to Finland. It is very important that those travelers who come here voluntarily also go into this two-week quarantine, i.e. do not spread the virus when they come to Finland. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has increased its own information. We have emergency services there, you can get information and contact us if necessary through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, but our emergency services only work in emergency situations. The fact that you have to book and take care of your own plane tickets is a matter for a normal traveler. Instead, the borders are not, of course, closed to people returning to Finland. Those who live here permanently or are Finns can come here at any time. We are also trying to help those who have to use Finland as a transit country when returning to their own countries. We have been in very close contact with the Nordic countries, we have been in close contact with the Baltic countries. There are travelers who, through Finland, will then have to return to their own country. This communication is also very important in these circumstances, and we are committed to it both within the EU and within the framework of Nordic cooperation and cooperation with the Baltic countries, that we will help each other in this situation and that we will, of course, try to keep open humanitarian corridors for these needs, and freight transport, security of supply, borders are open to all of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u49	Mr President! I would also like to thank Parliament as a whole for this extremely good and in-depth debate. We are actually discussing what measures we Finnish parliamentarians are prepared to take in order to involve the entire nation in these efforts to protect human lives. We want to protect the fundamental right which is perhaps the most important fundamental right, the right to life. I believe that this is now the most important message for the citizens. We make exceptional decisions, difficult decisions under very difficult circumstances. We are taking these decisions to protect the very ones who most need it. That is why, when I have also been asked why people want to limit their interaction, the answer is precisely that by restricting communication we can best protect the elderly, the people who are at risk, from infection, because the corona virus is very dangerous to these people or can be very dangerous. This is good to be aware of and remember. With regard to this stand-by, we are now introducing the section that is now needed for the cat war. I would also like to stress that Article 118 of the Emergency Act does not yet apply. , which regulates restrictions on movement and residence. What the Government has stated, that public gatherings should be restricted to 10 persons and that unnecessary public presence should be avoided, is the government's policy, and that is the policy
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u50	Mr President! In order to protect life and health, we are now in a situation where new means are being made available. Exceptional circumstances also require exceptional stretching from Finns so that today we are discussing whether some flexibility on fundamental rights can also be required from all Finns in order to protect life. The main purpose of this evening is to find a state of will in the nation that we will do everything we can to ensure that people who are in risk groups, especially Finns over 70 years of age, are able to cope with the coming epidemic. Certainly other age groups will accept the epidemic, many will be infected, and a significant proportion of the infected will fall ill, but the most important thing would be to make sure that the elderly in particular never get sick. This is because many elderly people are at such a high risk of mortality, and therefore, in order to protect life, we need to introduce even stricter ways of ensuring that we succeed together. A lot of people were worried about the elderly and why. We will make a separate whole in the way in which these future resources provided by the Emergency Act will be put in place in order to ensure that we are able, on the social welfare side, to ensure that the elderly, especially those in home care, are safe. It also requires very exceptional times for us in terms of flexibility for staff, because we have to ensure that the level of contacts is maintained in terms of the work tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u51	Mr President! I too would like to thank you for this very cooperative debate that we have had this evening. When passenger and passenger traffic are closed down, I have received a lot of communications about the difficulties that people will inevitably face. Finnair will continue to reduce its offering, but return flights will be handled. That is extremely important here. And as Minister Haavisto has just described, no one should travel abroad, and those who are travelling abroad should return as soon as possible, but if there is a permanent stay abroad, then it is up to you to decide whether to stay in its health care area or to feel obliged to come to Finland. There is no doubt that the situation is quite a pain in the ass. These are difficult issues in Europe, where borders and restrictions are constantly increasing and people are becoming difficult to move around. Yesterday I spoke to the Nordic ministers and there the Danish and Norwegian transport ministers said that it was a huge challenge to get people home, but we will of course do everything we can to ensure that this goes as smoothly as possible. The movement of people within Finland is now not restricted, and I believe it will be a last resort. It is equally important, of course, to keep the traffic of goods and cargo as smooth as possible from Finland out and into Finland, and we will also take as many measures as possible. Finally, I would like to say that my ministry has two elements in its name: the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and as traffic decreases, communication increases. It is a pleasure to say that Finnish telecommunications networks and telephone networks are in good condition, and the capacity is sufficient. So I can promise you that the connections will play, people will get home, and goods and services will find their way to the customer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u52	We need to try to keep to the timetable so that these decisions can be made within the target timetable set by the government, which is why there will soon be a break, but before that there will be a few more speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u53	Mr President! It is in this way that society and each of us, as a member of it, now have to adapt to new challenges, constraints and responsibilities. Now the sky has been filled with the famous black swans that were not supposed to exist. These challenges are great, but the Finnish welfare society, the preparation that has been made within it, the wise and necessary political decisions that have been taken now, the very difficult decisions that have been taken, and our responsible citizens, are the best possible protection in this difficult situation. The government has adopted these regulations for the introduction of the Emergency Act in order to protect and take care, especially of those for whom the corona virus is life-threatening. The government has acted wisely and responsibly under the leadership of Prime Minister Marin, and it is good that the work in the municipalities has also been taken into account in the government. Minister Paatero announced today that municipalities will be supported under these exceptional circumstances. In addition to the inevitable endangerment of human lives, the threats of the corona virus to the economy and to the public safety of everyone, to the sense of security and to the faith of the future are serious. That is why, Mr President, when the crisis is so bad, it is necessary here in Parliament and throughout society to work together now. The message must be clear from all of us. We are now doing all the things that will help us to survive both in terms of protecting lives and in terms of the economy. Finally, Mr President, a very special honour for those who are doing their work in the midst of all this, without which our society would be paralysed. I am talking about bankers, warehouse workers, public transport drivers, policemen, cleaners, teachers, personal assistants, garbagemen and so on. Let's do it together. Let's do it together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u54	Mr President! As has been pointed out, the Finns of Finland support the powers of the Emergency Act in exceptional circumstances. True Finns want to protect risk groups and ensure the protection of the Finnish economy, safety and health, just as we normally do. However, various measures in exceptional circumstances address fundamental rights such as freedom of movement and freedom of assembly. The Constitution does not define any priority for these fundamental rights. They are always done in weighing, but the fundamental right to life is certainly, and everyone here thinks, a super fundamental right that takes precedence over everything, and this should be the case. I believe that the various measures taken by the government — partly by these regulations, partly by other measures — are in the right direction and are well targeted. For example, we have not had to go, at least too quickly in my opinion, to anything of the kind, such as France, that everyone's freedom of movement is restricted, but to try to find those risk groups and target groups. Of course, this too may have to be done — we do not know that yet. We are giving you support and trust from the opposition as parliamentarians and people on that street, and you will have a lot of power to prepare and bring things here and also to make your own decisions under exceptional circumstances. Use this power and the confidence that has been shown to you wisely and prudently and remember that, while we have a lot of ideological difficulties in trusting you, we are now giving you a lot of confidence. And again, let me stress: use it wisely.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u55	Thank you. — The proceedings and the debate on points 3 to 6 in addition to this point are now suspended. They will continue at 24 p.m. today after the meeting of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u56	We shall now proceed with the two-minute speeches that have been held earlier today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u57	Mr President! Corona pandemic shakes the whole world. A large number of people will become sick in the interest rate also in Finland. The large number of people affected is due to the fact that this is a new virus for which we have not yet developed resistance. Fortunately, the majority are mildly ill, but on the other hand, elderly people and people with other major underlying diseases or anti-resistance medications can be very seriously ill. That is why it is important that we make every effort to prevent people in risk groups from getting sick. By reducing social contacts, we also reduce the risk of a large number of people getting sick at the same time and putting too much burden on our health care. In order to safeguard health care, the Emergency Act is necessary. The protection of staff is of paramount importance because of their high risk of infection and the maintenance of their ability to work. The adequacy of protective equipment is really important from the point of view of health and safety at work and to keeping the staff healthy. There are also other categories of workers, such as pharmacists, institutional guardians, teachers, police, Border Guard, safety representatives and many others, whose work safety needs to be properly taken care of. We must also remember to take care of the staff. The shifts cannot be excessive, even in a crisis situation, and good management is needed. Nursing staff also need rest to recover. Also, during this exceptional period, other diseases have not disappeared. Good medical care, access to medicines, must be ensured to ensure that people's illnesses are treated and that the quality of care is safeguarded. Finland has high quality and good health care, and we can rely on excellent people and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u58	Mr President! The importance of security of supply is emphasised in exceptional times. Self-sufficiency in food production, pharmaceutical supply and energy are issues that all countries in crisis need at the same time. Fortunately, Finland has taken care of self-sufficiency in many ways — this is not the case everywhere. Care must also be taken to maintain these and increase self-sufficiency after the crisis. The introduction of the Emergency Act is a serious, unique, robust and very exceptional measure. Its introduction requires a common vision of the President, Government and Parliament of the Republic. Every Finn now has to step out of his own comfort zone. The government and ministries of the country can limit our normal lives and impose authorities and other bodies of social interest on our country's critical tasks. Korona is not a joke. Everything that can be done to control the disease must be done now. Finland’s economy will be tough. A strong support package must be put in place for businesses to overcome the crisis. It's going to be a big emergency. All the means are on the board now. Mr. Speaker! It is important that there is a strong consensus on this exceptional issue and that we are together here, both the government and the opposition, on the issue of the patriot. We'll have time to talk about little things later. Let's be there for each other and help each other, even if we can't be close.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u59	Mr President! We live in an extraordinary time in the whole world. It is now essential to identify solutions for limiting the spread of the virus, ensuring adequate management capacity and security of supply, and economic measures to cope with the acute crisis of individuals and businesses. We need resuscitation and employment measures as the virus subsides. In order to have the capacity of our health care system and to control the worldwide spread of the virus, delimitation measures and the measures brought about by the Emergency Act are necessary, as heavy as it seems to be to restrict freedoms in our modern society. Tomorrow we will have a more detailed debate on the basis of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The crisis situation and financial concern make it harder for many adults to cope. I hope that, in organising distance education, we will ensure the systematic support that can be provided to children, young people and families during this exceptional period. Much of this can be done by remote service. In addition to catering for schoolchildren, we must remember that part of our adult population is in food aid and now needs replacement solutions. My second concern concerns the adequacy of health care staff. Some of our staff are returning to their countries of origin, including Estonia. Some have fallen ill, some have to be re-educated to the needs of intensive care. The family and non-care providers who have helped and rehabilitated the elderly have been excluded because of the risk of infection. We should soon recruit volunteers, such as young people and garrisonmen, to help with the care of the elderly, so that we can secure the ability of our medical staff to cope with the effects of the virus, possibly even if it is too long. I have a strong confidence that, in a difficult situation, we will act in the common interest and take care of the weakest first.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u60	Mr President! I think it is very important that, even in exceptional times, citizens' everyday lives and livelihoods are guaranteed. Schools are now closing, and children are invited to care at home. However, while others can continue working at a distance, other parents are left out of work because of childcare, and as we know, for many low incomes this is very difficult. It is important to find out without delay whether the parent will receive compensation under the Act on Contagious Diseases or how the family’s livelihood will be secured. In any case, concern for daily livelihoods weighs on people’s minds, as does concern about the possibility of their own or a loved one’s illness. Mr President! The situation is very difficult at the moment for self-employed, self-employed and people working on a zero-hour contract. Uncertainty is the worst thing for them. Together as soon as possible, we must find a solution to their situation and secure their position. The exceptional situation must not lead to an increase in the number of enforcements and longer bread queues, but we must ensure that those in need of financial and other assistance receive it. Access to food aid must also be guaranteed. I am sure that we will also be able to overcome this situation through solidarity and cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u61	Mr President! Coronavirus pandemic is a serious matter, and it is quite clear that the whole of Parliament together will do everything in its power to reduce the spread of this epidemic and the government will have all its support for what it does for it. I would have liked to ask the ministers when there are two ministers here — thank you for having come here after midnight to hear us. I'd like to ask you about this security of supply. According to the news, Finland has an 80% self-sufficiency rate and Sweden has 50 per cent, and I hear there have already been some questions about Finland for help. What help has Finland been asked for, other than possibly food is soon to be bought? Secondly, when the decision was taken yesterday in the European Union that protective equipment should not be exported from the European Union outside the Union, how does the Finnish Government now view the fact that Finnish companies are exporting these protective equipment, for example face masks, to different countries, such as Italy, that they are now going to be kept here in their own country? With regard to these masks, I would have liked to say that the CDC has indicated on its website that the use of respiratory protection is essential for health care workers, for people who are caring for a sick relative and for those who have signs of a coronavirus. In China, for example, it seems mandatory to use breathing masks everywhere, and in China the disease has been stopped. Today it was announced that there were 21 new infections, so quite a bit in such a large country. Minister, are these, together with other measures, useful and are they also possible in the risk group?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u62	Mr President! “I hope from my heart that the cooperation that we have tried will be strengthened because it depends on the continued success of our That is what President Kallio said when the winter war ended. Korona — a global, European and Finnish crisis — teaches us humility and man’s smallness. We don't control everything that's going on around us. In the last few days many churches and homes have prayed for their country, their neighbors, and their decision makers. The government's actions protect the weakest, we want to protect life. The transition from school to distance education has a broad impact. It is important to talk to children and young people about why we limit life. The introduction of the Preparatory Act will ensure, among other things, that all training providers can move flexibly from local education to distance education without endangering funding. All in all, we will have valuable experience in this. The introduction of this law will significantly limit our fundamental rights and complicate our lives. Mild phenomena and family difficulties may get worse in abnormal circumstances, so the ability of social services to function and support families must also be safeguarded. Mr President! The threat is also an opportunity. The world won't be the same. While solving challenges, we must also look to the future. And all in all
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u63	Mr President! The Act on Preparedness introduces more powerful means of controlling the spread of the corona virus in Finland as well. That is a good thing, government, at last, but this has consequences that must be resolved together. The most important thing is to prevent the death of coronas. The elderly and the underlying diseases are most at risk, of course. It is particularly important to secure health care personnel, rescue workers, police, commerce, teachers and cleaners. All companies are now hard hit, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and also those with a business name. The aid package is coming, but is it enough for everyone, even the smallest ones? I suspect that this is not enough. And what are the banks and the tax office doing? Are they coming? Entrepreneurs have suggested that the state should take over the social and pension contributions of employers and entrepreneurs for a fixed period. What do you think of that? I would also like to raise the issue of people who are over-indebted, who are subject to a default mark. There are over half a million of them right now. Payment plans have been made, many people have jobs. The job can now go, and some of them are already negotiating. What happens to them? They're really nervous. They're making a lot of connections. We also remember the shocking time of the recession in the '90s and the period after that. People still bear these responsibilities. Then there was the security of supply, which Niikko also brought up. Self-sufficiency in food production — we hope that we will finally understand how important this is. Sweden is only 50% self-sufficient, Finland 80%, and they have contacted us. They're nervous as to whether their food production is good enough. The gardens are all over the place what's going on. They don't have the manpower. How to get enough labour [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u64	And now both of the ministers present are asking for the floor. - Do you have two minutes? — There are nods. If the Haavisto starts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u65	Mr President! Thank you for your excellent contributions. In fact, I will only address these issues of security of supply, which were addressed by Mr Savola, Mr Niikko and Mr Elomaa in their own speeches. Firstly, it is true that Finland has exceptionally strong self-sufficiency and security of supply thinking, which is due to our very crisis-conscious thinking, including defence issues, and this will of course make it easier in such a situation. It also contains a certain number of pharmaceutical stores, and this has now been confirmed in today's decisions that we do not need the kind of pharmaceutical material we ourselves need in these contexts. At the same time, it is also very important to say that part of our security of supply is that the borders are kept open for freight transport. In other words, goods and products can continue to be transported to the east as well as to the south as to the west, and of course our security of supply is also that our own production, including the food industry, can continue to work, and the government's solutions have supported it, for example, with regard to these day care facilities, so that this can be done in these critical areas. All of these are part of society as well as possible. And I would just like to add, as a small addition to this business support, which Mrs Elomaa has mentioned in particular: on Monday, Mr Kulmuni, the Finance Minister, presented these initial ideas on this package, and I am sure that they will be specified here, which sectors and activities in particular need of this support, but this has been a concern of the government since the beginning, and these will also be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u66	Mr President! There are certainly many questions that are still such that no answers have been given to them. There are many parts in the whole, and in practice even in the next few days we may be in a situation where today's decisions will then be implemented with specific instructions from various ministries. Tomorrow, when it comes to OKM, ministers will report on the guidelines for its region after the Act on Emergency Response in Parliament is adopted. Those details will be specified tomorrow. On the social and health side, too, there are a lot of details that need to be invented, and certainly one of the biggest pressures is how we organise the conditions of the elderly, when the Government has very clearly stated that, in order to protect the over 70s, we are in a very new situation, and the elderly have, at least I hope, taken very seriously the fact that protecting them is the best way to avoid those contacts now. In this regard, after the Emergency Act, we have the possibility that social and health care staff will also be able to continue to carry out their duties in areas where, for example, there is no need for urgent care at the moment. Then the whole of how improved service housing, how in practice home care and other service housing are organised, and especially those elderly people who are still doing well and who are not in municipal social services but who may need support because there are no relatives, in that sense this is a big one, but we will be very quick to instruct what this means, firstly, for municipalities as a service provider, but also for individuals. [The President knocks ] Compensation under the Act on Diseases is currently being investigated and will be made public.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u67	Let's continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u68	Mr President! Many Finns have come to doubt about the future. Because of the Korona virus, our country faces exceptional circumstances. The Finnish people are now asked for endurance in many respects. We Finns are a tough people. I believe that the majority will accept the Emergency Act, understanding its necessity. Many of us are now concerned about the condition of parents, grandparents or other loved ones. I'm sure a lot of people today have wondered for their family how we're gonna survive. I'm worried about what's coming. I'm scared. We must do everything we can to ensure that no one is left alone in these exceptional times. Together, we're stronger. Now is the time for Finns to be flexible, able, able and patient. All of this we are doing in order to best protect each other and, in particular, risk groups. Now is the time to do a little more than a little less. Mr President! Human health comes first, but these exceptional times also strike small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. Usual Finns, working people. There's a recession ahead of us. We need policy measures to ensure the financing of businesses and to revitalise the economy. We can also contribute to the economic cycle, to the functioning of society and to the demand for services for businesses and entrepreneurs. In these exceptional times, it is easy to see what you may otherwise experience for granted — the support of fellow humans, community, friends, and family. But I know that together we will do everything we can to make it through the country, and the country will certainly get over this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u69	I would remind Members of the practice of photography in plenary sessions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u70	Mr President! In order not to forget the most important thing, the first thing I'm going to say is: It is a very good thing that Article 3(3) and (5) of the Emergency Act are now being introduced. That is very justified. I mentioned the emergency law myself when we were here on 27 February, but, in the interests of honesty, I did not think we would have to introduce it. A few words on this matter itself, the corona virus epidemic. We now have data from China and Italy showing that mortality — that is the correct term, not mortality, but mortality — has been 15% in the population over the age of 80 and 7% to 8% in those aged 70 to 79. We have 80 years of age over 300,000 in Finland and over 550,000 between 70 and 79 years of age. If we manage to limit the infection to 1% of this population, the mortality rate in this whole population will be of the standard so-called seasonal influenza class, that is, between 400 and 500 cases a year. But if this catches up to 10% of the elderly, it's ten times as many. Against this figure, we must now mirror why we restrict ourselves, why we isolate, and, for example, the debate on the adequacy of intensive care facilities is entirely linked to whether it is 10, 15 or 1 %. This is the most important thing. I would also stress the importance of home care here, as the majority of the elderly, 70,000, receive regular home care. There they are, in fact, at best safe when we are able to provide them with medicines, hygiene and help. I'm also worried about the economy. With a very primitive head count every day, our economy is losing at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u71	Mr President! Today we are in a situation that few people have ever believed we would come before. The crises threatening our nation have changed shape over the last couple of decades, and the long period of peace has allowed us to lull ourselves somewhat into the wrong feeling of security. It is therefore understandable that concerns arise from the introduction of the Emergency Act and from the drastic measures taken to deal with the corona crisis. To protect our loved ones, we need to take the situation seriously and adapt together. The coming weeks will hardly be easy for any Finns. The everyday arrangements of families are radically changing, the livelihoods of many are threatened and more and more people have been left without work at this stage. Companies, on the other hand, are struggling with a wave of bankruptcy. At the same time, health care employs highly pulled personnel, whose contribution is more important to our country than ever. Things are not always going as planned, and the corona is testing the sustainability and unity of our nation. Each one of us is now required to withstand pressure tolerance, understanding, and the ability to tolerate discomfort. At this stage, it is still unclear how strict measures we will still have to take as a result of the interest rate, but by demonstrating the unity required by the situation, we will also be able to cope with this as a people. Mr President! Our country is prepared for exceptional circumstances, and now we see that preparedness is working in practice, and lessons will also be drawn from the situation. Even in exceptional circumstances, we can keep the most essential functions of society secure. Ensuring health care, rescue, police, border control and, for example, primary production is extremely important. We'll take care of the Finns together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u72	Mr President! We are living in exceptional times and, for the first time since the war, we are introducing a preparedness law to overcome the threat posed by the corona virus. Municipalities play a key role in this preparation and action. They're skilled and well-prepared. Many municipalities have already taken vigorous measures to prevent the spread of the corona, both in health care and, among other things, in remote education arrangements. Thank you to the cities and municipalities of Finland for this exemplary work. Thank you also to the nurses, doctors, teachers and all the professional groups who have worked tirelessly in the municipalities over the last few days. Similarly, many municipalities have already taken decisions to secure decision-making under exceptional circumstances, i.e. to put in place management arrangements during disturbances and electronic decision-making procedures. The situation of municipalities would have been helped if Article 108 on the administration of municipalities would also have been included in this regulation, but for some reason it has not been brought into this. It is very important that preparations continue to be made in close cooperation with municipalities. In order to safeguard critical services, a new degree of flexibility may also be needed to ensure resources and staff adequacy. There are still many questions about practical arrangements and interpretations in the air. Today there were guidelines on, among other things, preschool education and school meals, but issues related, among other things, to ensuring care for elderly people who still live in homes. The questions also relate to municipal procurement, grants to organisations and, more generally, to ensuring the continuity of other activities. I hope these will be resolved quickly. In the long term, the economic impact of the crisis on municipalities will come in the form of expenditure growth, falling incomes and coping with new obligations, and answers will have to be sought in due course, but the most urgent issue right now is the safeguarding of human health. In the fight against the corona, we're at our strongest when we work together. Now is the time for caring, and it has been wonderful to follow the debate in this Chamber today and the common will.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u73	Mr President! Korona is at least a serious threat among us, and in recent weeks it has also kept the gallery in the Chamber more empty than usual at other times than this night. I may never have heard the words 'together' and 'together' in Parliament in one day. We're working together to get as little damage as possible to the normal state. It's a serious situation. The adoption of the Act of Preparedness is extremely exceptional, but this information is necessary. It is now important that we all follow the instructions of the authorities. Mr President! Concrete support is now particularly needed for children, young people, families, the sick, the poor and the elderly. We have just heard from the Minister about the situation of care and support for the elderly, and I would like to ask how we will ensure that families with children are able to cope in this exceptional situation. Mr President! Our united decisions show that we want to take care of the most fragile ones. It is not a small thing, but an enormously valuable thing in which we are at the heart of humanity to carry out love for our fellowman, to deal with common matters, to give of our own. It's more blessed to give than to take. Today's speeches recall the end of the Winter War, which was announced on the radio on 13 March 80 years ago. This was followed by a hymn of Finnish prayer. In this hymn, we pray: “Blessed guardians, the highest, the hand. Always on the land of birth, the shelter of your wings.’
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u74	Mr President! I do not know how to put this, but I would like to emphasise the importance of supporting businesses, especially SMEs, and so on, for employees, because the situation is that if we do not get enough support for them at the moment, then, with the bankruptcy wave and after all the background cases, it is likely that more suicides will happen to us than we will die from the corona disease. Personally, these days have been — perhaps even a little bit in the face — a little harsh because of the thought that came to mind five years ago and what I experienced in the same situation as my own company. That is why I am absolutely at the disposal of all the representatives of the government in matters where, as a general rule, there is talk of the transport sector or the environmental sector, of the recycling sector, of the possible support for companies, because there are a lot of things there that are not really going to cost society anything, but rather of a bit of legislation and regulations in the opposite direction, so that we do not really have to push so much money. This same thing will then be seen retrospectively as the pain of those in the process of enforcement, because the pain of those who are already in the process of enforcement will only increase even further. And the enforcement of all sorts of cases should be relieved because it is known that the number of our enforcement customers will multiply. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u75	Mr President! Health first, the economy stalls — that is what this is all about. The introduction of the Act of Preparedness is necessary in this situation, but when there is power, there is also responsibility. Since the duration of the derogation period ahead cannot now be fully known, the citizens must be convinced of Finland's security of supply and related issues. The effectiveness of security of supply will be key issues in the next few weeks. As the borders close, companies are already in difficulty when industry is not able to access the necessary components and production. Ensuring energy production and self-sufficiency in all situations is also important. From the point of view of all Finland’s homes, food supply will become central. There have been special and colorful features in the shops, even hoarding. In order to avoid overcrowding, the government must now also strengthen the information that citizens do not have to worry about the adequacy of food. Mr President, in order that this may also be the case in the event of a prolonged crisis, it is important for Finnish farms to be able to concentrate fully on producing food for Finns. This requires measures to ensure, for example, the functionality of holidays. The conditions of the food industry must be safeguarded under all circumstances. Indeed, this is also the case in the neighbouring country of Sweden, where self-sufficiency calculations are obviously not fully in order. All in all, we are now living in a strange situation. We need to do it now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u76	Mr President! What can Parliament and the Government do to ensure the livelihood of Finnish entrepreneurs and employees? Salaries and bills have to be paid. We must do all we can, not just this house, but every Finn as well, so that together we can find the solutions that will enable us, above all, to alleviate the economic and health disadvantages of the situation. With that in mind, the Government decided that the emergency conditions in our country under the Emergency Act would prevail. In addition, we are about to have an amending budget. The derogations from the Act on Preparedness last a long time, but the consequences of the interest rate are much longer. There are a lot of things we don't know. We do not even have full certainty as to what this preparedness legislation actually means and where it will lead. Mr. Speaker! Finland is in the same situation as other countries in the world. We have to make decisions in the face of uncertainty. Health and safety require unity both here in Finland and elsewhere in Europe. The government and the opposition have been able to do so together, and I believe that all Finns will be able to do so. Mr President! The government in Finland belongs to the people and is represented here by the parliament. You, the government, have been exemplary in this task. Now it is our turn to act. During this night and tomorrow's day, Parliament will assess the content of the regulations and decide whether and in what respect the regulation will remain in force. I wish you, Mr Government, strength and wisdom. I believe that you have the support of the whole Parliament, because in the crisis the leaders are known.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u77	Mr President! This is a new situation for all of us. Finland is now living under exceptional circumstances. In this situation, we need national unity. Yesterday, in times of peace, the government published exceptionally tough measures due to the corona crisis, which are very welcome. The most important thing is that we are able to ensure the functioning of our health care system and thus the availability of health and care for people, especially those who are at risk. The global economy has been confronted with an unprecedented situation as a result of the corona situation. It is very likely that Finland’s economy has plunged into a global recession. Already almost 90% of companies expect the corona crisis to weaken their operations. Every day that's passed is going to make the business situation even worse. There are always people behind these companies. Many companies face an acute liquidity crisis. As a result of the economic crisis, many companies have to lay off or lay off workers. The situation is particularly difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises. Together with the opposition, the government must find ways of facilitating the survival of both people and businesses in the corona crisis. Keeping distance from other people does not mean ending everything and giving up everything. Now is a good time to support local entrepreneurs, order food directly at home or buy food at a domestic online store, and thus keep the steering wheel of the economy on the move. However, we must remember that not everyone has the opportunity to order food from restaurants when the money is not even enough to buy food from the store. In such very unusual times, the importance of school for many children becomes evident. For many, it is the only place to get a warm meal of the day. Such problems need to be helped and understood quickly by the municipalities and the state. This is the case with the State.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u78	Mr President! This is an exceptionally serious situation. It is commendable that the government of our country, with President Sauli Niinistö of the Republic, has made the most of the resources available under the preparedness law. For these activities, Parliament has today given strong, full support and understanding. The priority now is to slow down the spread of the corona virus. Our health care deserves great commendation, but it also needs time to cope with an exceptional situation. Let us work together to ensure that our health care system lasts and its workers are able and able to cope. Many elderly people are also concerned and their loved ones are concerned. I now encourage municipalities to introduce extended home services so that those over 70 years of age receive the help and support they need. The congregations and the SPR and others can well be used to do this, however, bearing in mind the need to be careful about the risk of infection. Elderly people must feel and also know that they are cared for and cared for. Many families are also concerned about whether a small primary school student can manage at home alone in distance education. Parents may not be able to miss work; families’ finances do not bear it in many cases. As a society, we must also have an answer to this. Families must also be able to make a living when children need a mother and father in the home even during working days. Mr President! Many workers are in a difficult place, many have already received a lay-off decision. The question is how the family will make the compulsory payments next month. And companies — hairdressers, cafés and many others — have already run out of cash flow. We must find ways to help these people beyond this difficult period. These companies do not: [The President knocks ] Care will also be taken to ensure that your own food production lasts. It's the foundation of our security of supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u79	Mr President! In this debate about the corona, as at 1:00 a.m., it has become clear that the situation and the circumstances are difficult. Now we are talking about a huge risk to the spirit that none of us would want to face in this Parliament. It is a question of protecting the lives and health of those at risk and safeguarding the carrying capacity of health care, the ability of workers to cope with this exceptional situation. In half a day, safety became the most important value in Finland. For many generations in Finland this happened for the first time. The Korona virus is a black swan, and it is already clear that it will have a huge impact that will only be understood in the years to come. The Government proposes extensive restrictive measures to increase resources, limit people's gathering and close borders. According to the guidelines, the premises of day-care centres and schools will also be closed. Schooling continues, but there is no meeting for education in school buildings except in the exceptional situations listed here. In the case of schools, it is a digital leap in one night. Exceptional ways to learn, work, run a business and move must now be dug up, and the responsibility of families is emphasised in this new everyday life. However, both self-preservation and exceptional state intervention are needed. It is a human and economic emergency, as the debate has shown. Above all, the pain of the economy comes from small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and I am very concerned about the indebtedness of households in this situation. This rescue package of EUR 5 billion is just the beginning of what we are facing. Everyone should make sure that their presence at risk does not endanger or endanger others. The situation is exceptional
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u80	Mr President! Although it took too long for the government to react to the measures required by the health experts of the WHO and the European Office for Disease Control, and which we have demanded from the opposition, we are grateful that the government has finally begun to act with the seriousness of the situation. In the framework of the Emergency Act, the Government will receive full support except for one entity. As a government, you have said today that although the border is closed to our own citizens under exceptional circumstances, asylum applications from Sweden are still being received. Migrants are thus still allowed to travel free of charge between Sweden and Finland. This does not fit the Finnish sense of justice, and these travelers are not in need of help. Instead, the government must focus on helping its own citizens, especially those who are most vulnerable. I have already received a number of messages from people with limited resources who will be hit hard by the state of emergency in society. Action and relief is needed quickly, just to mention, for example, over half a million Finns in enforcement — or entrepreneurs. The bread queues are not going to stop but will grow, and now the families of small entrepreneurs who are going to lose their livelihoods may also fall into this category. Good government! Already, many food aid providers have stopped providing aid because of the ten-person restriction guidelines. This rule is right to prevent mass gathering, but it is intended to avoid unnecessary packaging of people physically in a small space to minimise the risk of infection. However, it is possible to provide food assistance in the outdoors so that the pilots consider that queues are formed in accordance with the security intervals. I would ask the government to make this possible and to instruct food aid operators so that this assistance can be given to our citizens in a crisis situation. The Government and Finns, more prepared and supported than each other. Let it give to others who can and, on the other hand, let it be on behalf of the neighbor in a shop that is not a risk group. Let each one keep in touch with his neighbors — now more than ever before.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u81	Mr President! I think it was a good thing that Mr Tynkkynen spoke because, at parliamentary level, we have to look back a bit so that we can see where we started. When the corona virus epidemic began in the world, in a few days, Finland was immediately involved in trying to identify this unknown disease as well as possible in the light of all the information available, and in that respect the authorities acted immediately. This knowledge that such an epidemic had begun in China came to us at a very early stage. As a result, infection doctors in Finland were immediately instructed about everything to come. It led to the fact that where Sushomi was able to show his true skill, that these chain of infection did not initially break apart, but that they had kept together. [MikaNiikkoarvo]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u82	Mr President! I could briefly respond to Mr Tynkkysen's comments on the way in which these borders are closed. The possibilities of Article 16 of the Border Guard have been used for this. There is mention of this international protection. There is nothing to change that law in this context, but there is mention of this possibility of temporary closure of border posts, but there is no reason to prevent Finns from entering the country, and I believe that this is very balancedly done at the moment. Freight transport will also remain at these borders.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u83	Mr President! Even in the midst of the crisis, Finland is a state of justice and a stable democracy, and it is evident, for example, at this moment when our highest government body, the parliament elected by the people, weighs on the adoption of the Emergency Act. Our ultimate purpose is to protect the elderly and the basic sick, i.e. our loved ones, grandparents, the generation that built this good country, and fellow humans who, without knowing it, may have a basic disease that puts them at greater risk of health as coronavirus infections spread. Since we do not know what the consequences of all of this will be and which choices are exactly right, we simply need to act on the best available information and consideration. At a serious moment in this Chamber today, in the name of national interest, we are united and I believe that this is a strong message. The beauty of an extraordinary and uncertain situation lies in community. In the midst of a crisis, the wonderful goodness of people emerges. There are already examples of this: NGOs, businesses, individual people of good heart have woken up. Loneliness is a big risk to well-being, and I feel bad that many people are going through this situation alone. Neighborhood assistance is now important for neighboring love, including calls to loved ones, especially the elderly. Thanks to carers, teachers, early educators, cleaners, civil servants — all who are now stretching out for the common good of all of us. It is important for you to know that Parliament attaches great importance to your work. Unfortunately, it can already be said with great certainty that the crisis will have long-term consequences and cold effects on the economy as well. There is now a spiral of lay-offs and a great deal of concern about jobs, and there is great uncertainty. Now is the time to support businesses, both as consumers and nationally, so that, when the day comes that restrictions can be lifted, we have jobs, businesses, services and people's faith in the future. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u84	Mr President! We're here in front of a serious place. The threat that no one believed in a few months ago is true. The new corona virus that originated in China threatens the health and future of us and many other citizens of the world. Against this threat, we must all act now. It's not the time for politics. It's time to work together. That is why the Government's proposal to introduce the Emergency Act should be welcomed. Priority must be given to safeguarding the health of Finns. Mr President! I also have serious concerns about the wider impact of coronapandemic on Finnish society. In addition to health, the economic impact on all of us, and especially on entrepreneurs, is severe. I now appeal to both the government and to all the key players in the economy, to the social partners and to the financial institutions to avoid the worst. The Coalition Party is now making proposals on a fast-track basis, including to facilitate the situation of entrepreneurs. I hope they will also be taken up. Mr President! I believe and trust that we Finns will overcome this challenge even stronger than before. That's what we've done before in the most difficult places in our history.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u85	Mr President! I have always believed in the power of the example, and now is the moment when examples are really needed. We are moving to a time when the Emergency Act is about to come into force. This is the first time since our wars have happened. Let it tell us something about the gravity of the situation and how to deal with it. We decision-makers now have to restrict the freedom of people so that we can safeguard the health of the most important of all: our loved ones, everyone. Decisions will be tough, but they will be too much rather than too little. Now we have already seen fine examples of people’s tremendous desire to help others. When this crisis is over, the world will appear very different from what we are accustomed to. If it means a world where ‘we are more important than’I’, even this cloud will win its own silver lining. At the moment, however, it is far too early to talk about the opportunities that all this brings, but that day will come. In order to build a sustainable future, we must now give strong support to small entrepreneurs and businesses. The coalition will make its own proposals available to the government, and I hope that they will be treated with the same respect that we have had for the government's action under these exceptional circumstances. Mr President! Now we must act with the best knowledge, exemplary and united. Let the future come and determine whether our decision was right.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u86	Mr President! I could not imagine a year ago, when I began my work as a Member of Parliament, what a serious crisis our country could be facing at the moment. The introduction of the Act of Preparedness is a very powerful act that has not been used once since our wars. I consider the proposal to introduce the Emergency Act to be justified and necessary. We must do everything we can to prevent the spread of the virus and to protect the elderly and the long-term ill from the disease. Health is now more important than anything else. This debate also shows Finland's strength, namely unity. Politically, our opinions differ, of course, in this Chamber, but in the face of the crisis we are united in our efforts to help and support Finland. At present, professionals in health care, police, rescue services are doing valuable work for the safety and health of people. Teachers and staff in many service sectors are also stretched to the limit in the face of this exceptional situation. Thank them and greatly appreciated for the work that has been done. Mr. Speaker! The Korona virus is, above all, a healthy but also an economic crisis. The virus has been a severe blow to many entrepreneurs in the service sectors, but also in many other sectors. It is very important that they should be helped in this situation so that they can overcome the worst and then resume their work in the future. The government support package is an important first step, but it is clear that it will not be enough. We will help, support, advise the government in every way possible so that all the means are put in place so that entrepreneurs can face this worst-case scenario.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u87	Mr President! The Finnish Government adopted strong measures to prevent the spread of the corona virus. The introduction of the Act of Preparedness is an act that has never been necessary in a time of peace. Actions are widely reflected in society, in every citizen. It is a strong signal that the situation is serious and should be taken as such. The essence of society is to guarantee the health and safety of citizens. We are now acting by means of highlighted vigilance and care. We all need to think more about fellow humans and their well-being than usual, while at the same time taking care of ourselves. President! Finland is full of heroic acts. They do so in day - care homes, schools, health care, and many other places. Those acts are now needed everywhere, whether they be related to children, older people or entrepreneurs, for people, for the future. In taking pride in the tireless work of many Finns, Parliament must do everything in its power to guarantee people's livelihood, jobs and the ability of companies to function. It takes courage, will and wisdom. We have a responsibility, everyone has a responsibility. President! Even
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u88	Mr President! The Act of Preparedness has not been made to be used lightly, but it has been made to be used when it is necessary to protect people and society. Now that's how it's going to be. In the face of an exponential pandemic, we must act decisively and quickly, and that is what has been done. The measures adopted by the Emergency Act will no longer change the fact that the epidemic will wipe out this country. The common challenge now is to lower the rate of disease and limit the number of infections, especially in risk groups. The most important way to do this is to reduce physical encounters dramatically, and it is important that this message reaches all Finns, all municipalities, all companies without delay. Although the situation may not yet seem so serious, it is most likely to be so soon. Isolation measures are unpleasant and difficult, but in the end they are the ones that save lives. Everyone is hit by the disease and its economic effects, but not evenly. Healthcare professionals face the hardest work. The economic stop may be the worst for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and other vulnerable groups and professionals who face heavy burdens have already been commended here on many occasions. It is up to us here to make a policy that shares this burden fairly and that will bridge the economy over this. Here too failure would be a human tragedy. It is clear that courage, solidarity and tenacity — and creativity — are needed now. We'll get through this, we'll learn from this, and we'll do it together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u89	Mr President! There is now an exceptional epidemic of infectious diseases in Finland. The President of the Republic and the Government have stated that there are exceptional circumstances in the country under the Emergency Act. Now Parliament decides to approve the draft emergency laws. We still don't know how sad things get. We do not know how long this difficult time will last. We don't know how many Finns get sick. I'm sure a lot of people will have to worry about a sick loved one. In this situation, we must work together across party boundaries, across government and opposition boundaries, so that everything is certainly done for the good of Finns and Finland. The future is now uncertain and it is therefore important that we show appreciation to those who help each other in this crisis. The people who work in hospitals, health centres and the police, in day-care centres, in schools, in pharmacies, in public transport, in local shops, to name but a few, are now on the frontline, so to speak, and we must be grateful to them. The exceptional situation has caused many companies to be at risk. This also puts many Finnish people's jobs at risk. It is therefore important for the government to continue to develop rapidly measures to save firms in difficulty and their jobs. The support measures published so far are a good start, but they are not, unfortunately, enough. New decisions are still needed and quickly, as early as this week. The Coalition Party supports the work of the Government by bringing proposals to the debate and by supporting all effective solutions. Mr President! We're facing a difficult time. We have to take care of the next of kin. We're gonna get through this together. I support the adoption of the regulation on the introduction of the Emergency Act and its implementing regulations in favour of this by the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u90	Ärade Herr Talman! Coronakrisen kommer få stora ekonsekenser. Nuvarande kris är en kris på gräsrotsnivån där effterfrågan i economination duker av både oro och av de åtgärder som vidtagits för att minska smittspridningen. Krisen är inte åsamkad av det finansiella systemet, som under Senaste finanskris. Därför kommer också annorlunda åtgärder att behövas den ar uus gången. Räntesänkningar och att pumppa in liquid i systemet som stöd för bankerna kommer inte ge samma effekt denna gång. I stät kommer stimulanser behövas. Det aviserade packaget på fem milarder euro samt åtgärderna via Finlands Bank, som regeringen aviserat, är ox en mycket elkommen början. Det skulle också vara viktigt att staten är redo att ge garantier för livskraftiga, men på grund av krisen sårbara företag. Det auri gäller bland you give bolag i transportsector, såsom rederier och flygbolag, som inte längre kommer ha passagerare men som har en viktig samhällsfunction och som vi måste se till att klarar sig igenom krisen. Det auri gäller så klart också många andra sectorer. Frankrike gjorde i dag klart att man ger lånegarantier för 300 billion euro, Spanien 100 billioner, Storbritann 300 billion. Sverige och Danmark ger SAS 300 million euro i garantier, och det är Jätteviktigt nu att vi i Finland också snabbt presenterar lustadana åtgärder. Världen kommer återhämta sig från coronavirus, men lån eller lånegarantier kommenter behövas för att brygga över denna ekonska kris som kommer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u91	Mr President! The Emergency Act provides strong means for Finland in this exceptional situation in the event of a corona epidemic. It will ensure adequate staff to ensure social and health care, security of supply and safety. This also involves reducing people-to-people contacts in order to protect the most vulnerable people. As a result, restrictions have also been made on school opening hours and schools have been closed. Some of the children are in remote education, and this challenges many families to a new situation in order to organize their daily lives in a new way and to organise their child’s education at home. When many children are in distance education in the future, it also poses a challenge to children’s rights. For all children, it is not obvious that there is regular food, security and care at home. The needs of both children and adults are particularly important, especially in exceptional circumstances. Then we also have to look on the page and make sure that the neighbour is doing well too, or that he needs help. I would like to ask when there are still ministers here: in what way, Minister Kiuru, have you thought about organising this social services to ensure that the children have everything well and that urgent matters are taken care of? Then I would like to ask Minister Haavisto: when there are still many Finns abroad who have not been able to arrange air services in Finland, how will they contribute to their homecoming?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u92	Mr President! I would like to make a few more remarks here to the ministers and, therefore, to the government. At the moment, there is a situation in Kela rides where more elderly people are collected in a taxi, for example, when they go to health centres. In other words, the Kela rides should, in my opinion, get a situation quite quickly in which taxis could only take the one customer there, because it is a little challenging that the risk group should meet each other in a taxi, where this epidemic is much easier to catch. In addition to that, I would see that there could be a situation in the shops where the risk groups would have their own time to shop, and perhaps this might be the best time in the morning, if, for example, cleaning in the shops has been done overnight, for example, with all the door handles and others being disinfected. This risk group would then be able to shop safely, because not every member of the risk group has the help of being able to shop there on behalf of a family member or close friend or someone else. Thirdly, I would like to take a point, that is, restaurants that do not serve food at all, so to speak of bars and beer places and such. I would see that such places should be closed down for the very reason that many — or most — of these companies have long been covered for such situations by insurance, which at that point would help these entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u93	Mr President! That is where I mentioned the concerns of the citizens, and I am sure that each one of us will. There are still more open questions than concrete answers. This is quite natural in this situation, and I encourage the government to do so by all means possible. For example, it was excellent at Yle’s A-studio to listen to Päivi Sillanaukeeta from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, how she answered the questions, told the questions that a lot of Finnish people have in mind at the moment. I wish you, ladies and gentlemen, and the whole government, strength in the face of this exceptional and difficult situation. At the end of this debate, I would like to ask you a question about these repatriations and the situation of Finns abroad, especially for you, Mr Haavisto. You have encouraged the government to come to Finland, and now there is some message that where we come from. Flights are cancelled one after the other, for example in Spain we have a lot of Finns who are now perhaps two weeks away from arriving in Finland. Has it been considered that in such places, where even larger groups of individual passengers could be found, for example, repatriation flights could be considered? Or: I got a message from the beginning of the week, actually yesterday, that there are 42 people in Miami and their return flights have been cancelled, customer service has been congested and they are currently not getting information. Here are just two examples. I believe that these can be found in Thailand and many other countries where there are larger Finnish groups, for example, during winter. I would ask you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, how can we facilitate their return home?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u94	Mr President! As has been much discussed here today, the corona virus is, above all, a health crisis, but it is the further we go, the more economic crisis we will see here in Finland. We already know from the messages we receive from entrepreneurs, from the airport, that restaurants, hotels, service entrepreneurs are in very great difficulty at the moment, but more and more are coming from industry, from the export industry. Today, Meyer announced, among other things, that he would start negotiations on all staff in Turku. It is clear that this epidemic of coronavirus will hit the world economy very hard and, as a result, Finland too. And it does not have to be a great fortune teller to see that the government is going to visit the future spending limits bar in quite different moods than might have been thought in the early part of the year. And I think that the Ministry of Finance's forecast will also give a little indication of what is going to happen. But, Mr President, at the very end of the day, I would like to say to the government what I have just said a little bit about that this package of support you have announced to entrepreneurs is a good start. The actions concerning the use of State Pension Fund funds, the use of Finnvera's instruments, the use of measures on the tax side, are good, but there are still quite a lot of artistic sites that will not be available to all entrepreneurs to support what they need. And it is clear that in the face of this kind of crisis we must do everything we can to ensure that viable companies do not go bankrupt, because it is about personal tragedies, but above all it is also about
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u95	And now all we have on the list of speakers is ministers Haavisto and Kiuru, closing remarks. We've got to get the wound started.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u96	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, you are still here in the Chamber and present! First of all, thank you for the active debate. I can only agree with Mr Heinonen that there is a situation in which we all have more questions than answers. Not all the answers are available to the government, that is clear. React to the disease, the image of the disease, the spread of the virus, from which it is difficult to predict where it will come from. We have seen the development of Asia, that the artistic scene is coming, but how quickly and to what extent we are going to endure this misery must also depend on how closely we follow the government's recommendations and decisions that have now been taken. We can help to put this crisis behind us as quickly as possible. I agree with all those who say that, above all, this is a very big matter for the economy: employees, entrepreneurs, SMEs, self-employed people, freelancers. We have a lot of people who are directly affected by this, not to mention the most vulnerable people with the greatest health risk. Mr Löfström raised these companies, businesses, and transport companies, both on the ship side and on the air side. We see not only in Finland but also in the world that these companies are, of course, suffering from this situation. This, too, is something we should pay attention to. Mr Laiho and Mr Heinonen asked what can be done about Finns who do not have these contacts. Finnair will still fly part of the connections, some of the other airlines will fly these connections, but of course we will talk between Finnair and even the Nordic countries about what can be done if there are situations like this that we then need to get a larger group of citizens out of somewhere. This is known to the government. Perhaps then a few more ideas which, in my opinion, were fine, emerged in this debate. Finland is now taking digital leaps overnight in this education and in many companies. This is an interesting moment. Congressman Kempp talked about this. Representative Ikonen mentioned the very important role played by municipalities. The municipality has a key role to play here. And finally, Mr Kivisaari, who said that Finland is full of heroes — unfortunately, we come to weeks where these actions of individual people, the helpfulness of individual people, what we can do for others in these times will now be very much appreciated in the coming weeks. - Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u97	Mr President! Surely we see heroes in social welfare and health care, where the coming weeks will be very hard and where the job description can change. In the front line, receiving an epidemic of corona is certainly a trial that remains deeply in the mind of this professional group. As a nation, we will be very grateful for the work that will be done in the next few weeks, but we will be equally grateful to all the other critical personnel who serve us in the front line. We can go to the store and pick up our shopping bags, make sure the heat stays in the houses. All these are the critical tasks in which the professionals in the industry are doing a very important job there in the front line. But the heroes are, in fact, all the Finns who are now taking the preparations for this epidemic seriously. We have made every effort to instruct people in what way we can protect ourselves as a nation in the next few weeks. The more we protect people who are at risk of being hospitalized during this corona epidemic and who may even be in intensive care there and even lose their lives, the better. Instead of these threats, it is desirable that everyone should be prepared immediately. Therefore, avoiding exposure to infection is a key issue. Therefore, in practice, Finland is taking such extensive measures so that we simply avoid contact where there may be an infection and ultimately also a disease. In this respect, we are prepared in a great many ways. It is also particularly important to prepare for the fact that all foreign entrants will actually withdraw and avoid contact during that two-week period, and this will be agreed with the employer. Or, for example, in the case of day care, it is agreed that children who may be exposed abroad are not taken to day care either. In this regard, it is very important that we all do our part. We too can avoid contact when we go through the necessary tasks that other adult groups have every day. In this respect, it is important to remember that both children and middle-aged people are very much involved with older people and, although it seems cruel, at the moment the most essential way of avoiding the worst threats of this epidemic in Finland is that we take this preparation so seriously that the contacts are now being avoided. I hope that these new powers, which we may have as a nation, will lead us to avoid the worst. In that regard, we are now protecting in good time the entire national parliament with decisive force and we are making sure that the most vulnerable group, namely, the elderly in practice and those whose disease is not balanced in terms of long-term diseases, also live through this epidemic so that we can protect health and protect life. Thank you for this debate. There are very good points of view here and even the question of what is happening to the restaurant industry. To this end, I am sure that everything will not be ready today, not even tomorrow. During these future days of crisis, we will also have to consider further steps. At the moment, this whole set of government policies includes an invitation from the point of view of the private and third sectors and religious communities to introduce the same requirements imposed by the Government on the public sector, and in this respect we certainly hope that they will be taken into account, but I also believe that there are good reasons for considering this matter again. At the moment, it would appear that people in restaurants would have drawn the conclusion that it is not appropriate to continue social relations as before. And if we do not draw such significant conclusions, then we must look again at this matter. In fact, from the point of view of restaurant entrepreneurs, even stricter regulations may come up in the next few weeks. Let's assess that question. From the point of view of infectious disease, it is clear that one way of spreading is to interact with the restaurants and pubs there, and in that respect this strong recommendation now being made should lead to the same. If it does not lead, then we are prepared to take action, and at the same time we may also be able to deal with these matters relating to the livelihood of restaurants in a different way than in this solution. We'll get back to that question later. For my part, thank you, and I also thank the President for his gracious minutes at the end of this evening's debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u98	Thank you, Minister Kiuru, thank you, Minister Haavisto, and thank you, all representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u99	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion by 12 noon on Thursday 19 March at the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u100	Mr President! The Government Decree on the right of the municipality to derogate from the deadlines for urgent care of health care and assessments of the need for social care services are related to the Emergency Act. This is because there is no need for urgent treatment to comply with the deadlines laid down by law, and this is justifiable in an exceptional situation. However, it should be borne in mind that these periods of access to treatment for non-urgent treatments, which are very long in many municipalities at the moment, are also being followed and that if someone gets worse while waiting, they can then be picked up for urgent treatment. Hopefully, the corona epidemic will fade within a reasonable period of time and get back to normal. At that point, it is likely that there will be a need for line-breaking measures in order to remove the rush-free line of treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u101	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to which the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion, and here again the deadline of Thursday 19 March 1920 by 12 noon.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-25.u102	Mr President! The Government decree in this section seeks an exception to the fact that, in the case of the Act on Emergency Response, derogations from the Act on Working Time and the Act on Annual Holidays and other labour law may be granted. In exceptional circumstances, this is justified in order to safeguard health care and other safety, security of supply, adequate resources and the necessary care and care for citizens. At the same time, however, care must be taken to ensure that the staff is able to cope. The shifts cannot be excessive even in a crisis situation, and good management skills are specifically asked. The medical staff and other staff involved in this work also need rest in order to recover. However, the epidemic will last for several weeks, and it will not be possible to exhaust people at an early stage under too much workload, but to ensure adequate staffing throughout the epidemic. I would therefore like to stress that, while this regulation allows for the use of these working time laws in an exceptional situation, it will also ensure that staff are able and well-being at work in this exceptional situation.
