ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I now call on the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u2	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u3	Mr President! Another bad thing he did this week was to read the news in the paper about the gross sexual crimes in the district court. In this case, it is a large circle of paedophiles that has abused children in a gross manner. The news reported how two men from the pedophile ring were convicted by the District Court of Western Uusimaa for gross child sexual abuse, among other things. The sentence was a year and eight months of unconditional imprisonment, which they are unlikely to have to sit in full. It should be noted that the judgment does not yet have the force of law. The Finns of Peru are pushing for far too light punishments for the most outrageous crimes. My question is therefore: is the government going to propose a substantial increase in the minimum penalties, now that the criminal code is being reformed in relation to sexual offences?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u4	Mr President! Thank you for a very important and timely question. As the representatives know, the legislation on sexual offences is now under complete reform. We've received statements from the Department of Justice. We had a working group that has worked hard, and the government has assumed that the penalties for sexual crimes against children must be tightened. Here and now, of course, is the fact that the Ministry of Justice is going through that commentary. It will be done very carefully, and the intention is that Parliament will receive this overall package when it is ready next autumn. I myself assume that a presentation will be brought to this Chamber which, better than today, will secure the status of the victim and also of all child victims.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u5	Now I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u6	Mr President! The jurisdiction does not belong to us here in Parliament, but it is our direct responsibility to exercise the legislative powers that we are granted in a fair manner. We must see to it that there are tangible consequences and that hardened criminals do not move among us. The people think that sexual crimes are too easy to get away with. The sentences have been heard in Finland for years, but the sentences have remained unimaginably low. We Finns require that 1) the minimum penalties for sexual offences be significantly tightened, 2) those accused of gross and repeated sexual offences do not wait for trial free and 3) the sentences for serious sexual offences are fully served. What is the view of the honourable government on these proposals of the True Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u8	Mr President! It is very good that you have ideas on how to develop legislation. The Finns also had the portfolio of the Minister of Justice during the previous term of government,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u11	Mr President! The focus of the government often seems to be that the range of criminal acts should be broadened, for example, by changing the definition of rape. In my opinion, the bigger problem is that even unequivocal crimes are punishable by penalties which are remarkably mild in international comparisons and also in comparison with other non-violent types of offences, such as economic crimes. Punishment must be seen as a price tag defined by society for the violated right to justice, in this case the physical integrity of a person. At the level of punishment, society also sends out a message of how reprehensible it is for what is being done. Do you see, Minister Henriksson, that the penalties imposed in Finland for sexual and other violent crimes are in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u12	Mr President! Parliament's representatives legislate, and the courts apply these laws. We have an independent judiciary, which is a very important issue in the rule of law. Neither the government nor the parliament will determine who will judge in our courts, but there will be independent judges. It is up to us to consider that the penalty scale is sufficient. It is then up to the courts to apply that penalty scale. Among other things, a child’s aggravated rape is today sentenced on a scale of two to ten years. And it's important that that penalty scale be used. It is up to the courts to assess the punishment they give for each crime. It is up to us to consider that they have a sufficient scale and we believe that that minimum level is proportionate to the offence that is being punished. After all, there is a long criminal policy in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u13	Mr President! The Minister knows, however, that the independent court will have to apply the penalty scales we have imposed, and our question referred to these minimum penalties. They enable us to influence the courts — they cannot evade them. So are there any clear increases in these sexual crimes, particularly against children? That is what I would like to know, and I am sure the people would like to know — there was quite a bit of criticism about that committee preparation. Secondly, how can these dangerous offenders be kept off the streets? After a temporary prison sentence, dangerous offenders are released again and again. Where is the law that will keep such people locked up so that the rest of us can be at peace if they continue to commit crimes, serious crimes against life and health? I would like an answer to these two questions. — Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u15	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the Legal Committee. In the morning, together with the Legal Affairs Committee, we had an opportunity to tell the committee as a whole what is going on, including with regard to these violent prisoners, and then also the representative. The sea learned that we have a working group that is now doing this work. We want to bring about legislation which, better than today, also guarantees that we have measures that a person who is dangerous to society — even though he has suffered its punishment — cannot then just be freed. We are working on this and, as Mr Meri heard this morning, we will return to this matter as soon as that working group has completed its work. As regards these crimes committed by adults, sexual abuse and rape of children,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u16	Mr President! Sexual crime often leaves the child with permanent damage, but even the right to prosecute serious sexual offences against children expires at the earliest when the victim reaches the age of 28 years and in the case of serious sexual offences the age of 20 years. A serious sexual offence against children is an act of which it is often difficult for the plaintiff to inform the authorities within this current limitation period. Often, it is only at the age of 30 that these things may come to the fore when the family is founded. And sometimes there are cases where sexual offences are discovered and there is solid evidence, even testimony, and yet this issue cannot be resolved,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u17	Thank you, Mr Räsänen, for this question too. This is also such an eternity issue, which in this Chamber every now and then arises in the debate, and this has been considered. And I agree that there are problems with this precisely because it may be that it is a long time since a person has been subjected to a sexual offence as a child and then, for one reason or another, may not even have understood that he has been the target of a crime, but will notice and know and be aware of it only as a parent. There is also the problem that at some point the time of ageing must stop. That is why it has been considered so far that police resources should be put into the crimes that have taken place recently and not so long ago — that there is sufficient resources to do so. This is also, in a sense, a resource issue,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u18	Mr President! Sexual crimes against children, whether physically or online, are disgusting and we must do everything in our power to prevent them from happening in society. Punishments call for toughening up, and it is important that this is progressed. I hope that Minister Henriksson will take forward these ex-Minister Häkkänen's crackdowns. The law allows for halting chemical castration, or medical hormone production, but it is not used. I would like to ask: is the government promoting this introduction of chemical castration, so that we might be able to prevent some of these sexual crimes because they tend to recur?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u19	Mr President! There is no record in the Government Programme that assumes that chemical castration will be carried out, so it is not up-to-date at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u20	Mr President! The Centre considers it very important and wonderful that the total reform of Chapter 20 of the Penal Code is finally being carried out in Finland, the overall reform of Chapter 20 of the Penal Code on sexual offences, where this law is brought to this day and into the future, is being modernised. The starting point for this reform is that it looks at consent, sexual self-determination, not the amount of violence, and this is a good way of protecting humanity. The Centre is very pleased that this overall reform will finally take place during this parliamentary term. But, President-in-Office, I would like to ask the government: the Government programme, its ambitious section on the development of the rule of law, has also mentioned that the situation of victims of crime in general is being improved, and the specific issue has been the need to improve the support and compensation for those close to them who have been killed, that is to say those who are close to them, and there are still gaps. What will the government do through this entry?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u21	Mr President! Mr Kurvinen is quite right that more attention should be paid to the situation of victims of crime, and that is what the government has done. This is also an issue that has often been on the agenda of EU Justice Ministers' meetings, and together we are working to improve the services of victims of crime in every EU country, and in Finland, for example, with Victim Support Finland, we have increased funds and increased resources there. With regard to this important issue of the possibility of compensation for the families of the victim of a homicide, it is also an issue that is now being clarified, and the intention is that this too should be the case during this term of office, so that the financial situation of the families of these victims can be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u22	Mr President! Finland is the safest country in the world, especially if it is also measured by the fact that we are the most free and democratic country in many respects. But safety does not extend to the Internet, at least, where children and young people are very often hunted by paedophiles. For preventive work, it would be important to take measures, such as, for example, campaigns in Britain for years where it is mandatory to put this kind of safety button on the Internet columns, from which you can contact the police directly or report such advances that fill these signs, and it has had excellent results. It is unfortunate to hear, of course, that the government does not want to promote such chemical castrations, which would also be a good, preventive measure for these repeat offenders. But can you promote such a security button campaign, which, above all, would require those service providers to put some on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u23	Mr President! Representative Niikko raises a very important issue, namely the increase in online crime in recent years, and especially crimes against children, including sexual offences, have also increased on the Internet, and that is extremely serious. That is why Finland is also involved in international cooperation with other EU countries and also with the United States, where intersectoral cooperation is carried out and police cooperation is also shared. We are trying to eradicate this in the international arena together, because online crime is often something that is not just about it. [MikaNiikkoarvo]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u25	Mr President! As far as these gross crimes are concerned, that is what we are now assessing when it comes to what is being done to violent and dangerous prisoners.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u26	Mr President! Mia Laiho, the medical representative of the Coalition Party, asked you if such chemical castration could be carried out for these most hardened paedophiles. You said that this issue has not been raised in the current government programme. I don't blame you. From the point of view of the present red-green left-wing government, this would certainly be an excessive violation of the fundamental and human rights of this bandit,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u27	Mr President! We can certainly sort this out, and it has been clarified before, and let us get those papers out. The Ministry of Justice has had its hands full in these days when effective measures are being taken with regard to the interest rate, which will help in this acute situation where we are now, and, among other things, today we have put forward a government proposal which will also help to keep viable businesses alive and extend the extension of the interest rate cap to the end of September in the case of quick-lease legislation. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u30	Mr President! In this society, sexual violence offences and, in particular, sexual crimes against children are crimes from the cruelst point of view. They must have total zero tolerance. Society must do everything to prevent them, and the penalties for these must be substantial. [Sanna Antitikainen's interlude] Mr President! In the last parliamentary term, on a proposal from the Socialist parliamentary group of that time, the groups jointly called for these penalties to be tightened up. At the time of the last parliamentary term it did not lead to anything, but fortunately it led to a unanimous opinion from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which requires that these penalties be tightened up and that the status of consent be strengthened in this reform. Mr President! The Social Democratic Parliament Group has full support for toughening the penalties for sexual crimes against children and strengthening their consent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u33	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Lindtman, for this support. It is very good that you also raised the point that the legislation on rape offences is now being amended so that the lack of consent becomes a feature of this, and that is an extremely important issue. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u34	Mr President! Sexual crimes committed against children from the darkest parts of the human mind have always been committed. As has already been said many times, the penalties for these are so low that it can be concluded that the child’s life and health, physical integrity or mental health are not very high on the scale of value. I was, of course, glad to hear the Minister say that something is being done about these things now, and there has also been talk of consent-based rape legislation, but I recall when it was discussed a while ago that, here, it was said, from the point of view of liberal punishment policy and, most amazingly, feminists themselves, that sanctions are of little importance and are not very interested in them. I would now like to know: is this really the whole government's line that it is essential and important to increase penalties across the board for sexual offences and other sexual offences against children? Could those who discussed the basis of consent also be able to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u35	Mr President! I believe that this is an issue which is shared by all groups in this Chamber with a common concern, particularly regarding the victims and their status. And yes, the government will bring to Parliament a comprehensive reform of sexual crime law, which includes not only this consent-based approach but also tightening the penalty scale, especially in the case of serious crimes against children, but also in the case of others. I believe that the debate that has taken place in this Chamber has been proper and that these proposals that have been made here have been such that these are certainly to be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u36	Mr President! The Prime Minister is quite right, and I do not understand the argument that others are being accused here of believing that these penalties should not be hardened.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u40	And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are changing the subject. — Representative Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u41	Mr President! In the coming weeks, the Government will be bringing a proposal for social welfare reform to this Parliament, but one of the weakest links in the reform is its financing model. It means massive cuts to more than one and a half million Finnish social and health services. In the province of Ostrobothnia, for example, in the Hospital District of Vaasa, there is a huge cut of EUR 18 million. This will inevitably mean a deterioration and concentration of services, and unfortunately local services will also disappear. How do you imagine, Mr Government, that the sick people in these money-loss regions will in future be managed with reduced resources, given that there are already huge queues and that there is already no money, no matter how much money? Aren't you horrified?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u42	Mr President! What terrifies me is that the debate on the future of social and health care does not take seriously at all the fact that the provision of these services must be based on the need. I am surprised at this question because we have a historical perspective on social and health care reform, which has been going on for a decade, but we have also had experience of discussing the state aid reform, in which Mr Risikko and then Mr Kiuru, both as ministers, were also involved. All these major reforms concern the way in which the common pot is distributed, i.e. how the wholesale money of 19.1 billion is distributed in a fair way. You have already presented this division in such a way that it is not as if we are doing or trying to do a fair division, but as if someone is already losing a great deal and spending money on something. Social and health care funding should be based on the need,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u43	Now I would ask those representatives who want to ask further questions on this subject to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u44	Mr President! You mentioned the need-based approach, and quite rightly, the need-based approach is the main part of your model, but it is based on the needs that we now know, and I am talking about those who are in lines that do not yet have the diagnosis. They're waiting for treatment, and there's no money for this. Another important concern I have is how many people now have to get health insurance. This is what HUS CEO Tuominen already warned in Helsingin Sanomat that quite a lot of people now seem to have to take out health insurance. And that does take away equality, and it is unconstitutional. Is the government really going to crush the kind of war in which people have to take out health insurance to get treatment? Don't you guys freak out, either?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u45	Mr President! I do not understand why we scare Finns with the need for health insurance. At least here I would like to say to everyone that we want to secure social and health care services throughout the country, which has also been attempted for ten years under the leadership of the Coalition Party. Last season, the aim was to save EUR 3 billion from social and health care. Who, at home and in the general public or in parliament, believes that a reform of social welfare and health care aimed at saving EUR 3 billion immediately in principle?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u48	Mr President! The Coalition Party wants to safeguard the services of all Finns. The government's social model works the other way around. My hometown of Helsinki was the target of a robbery. You promised a special status, but it has been distorted into a special cut in social welfare funding. This endangers the functioning of the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa and the services of Helsinki residents. Korona has roughed Helsinki up hard, and we have extensive health center queues, queues for oral health care, queues for special care have increased sixfold. Now we need to take action to get people into treatment, but you're cutting down on services. How can you do this? How do you, the ministers in Helsinki, justify this to the people in Helsinki who are in line?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u53	Mr President! The current funding of social welfare and health care is based on the fact that the organiser, both through the tax revenues he receives, customer fees and then by the state's universal state contributions, finances the service that is also being provided to the citizens in Helsinki. I myself have drawn attention, for example, to the basic level of access to a doctor specifically in relation to Helsinki, and we have a worrying fact, as Mr Sarkomaa said, that it is a very serious question at the moment of how the problem of corona can be traced there. We will do everything we can to support you, but the real decisions will be made in the City of Helsinki, to which this organisation belongs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u60	Mr President! This government reform of social services is an administrative reform. It does not secure access to people's care. Tomorrow, the Coalition Party will present its own options for modernising social services. But now I'm dealing with the county tax. It is said that the decisions on county tax will be taken during this term of government and will be introduced in 26. According to a recent study, 48 per cent of Finns are opposed to provincial tax and only 22 per cent are in favour of it. It would very likely lead to an increase in the overall tax level. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Government: does the government think it is a good draft of the law to bring about a financial reform of regions of historic size, but at the same time it has said that it is taking decisions on a completely different financing model? Secondly, how do you feel about parliamentary preparation? I myself sit in the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Taxes, which was responsible for assessing whether the regional tax is applicable to Finland in general,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u61	Mr President! First of all, a few words on this funding for welfare areas. According to this social model, funding for all will increase because social expenditure is known to increase and will be included in this. That is why Lindén’s throw to not just cut everyone; it comes normally when social spending increases. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u62	Mr President! The financing of social reform is based on the fact that richer regions support the poorer. I believe that most of this Chamber believes that this is a fair principle, but now, for example, if you look at my own hometown of Espoo, this funding model does mean that we are being robbed. At the moment, our municipal tax rate is 18. Now, if this is reduced by about 13 percentage points, we will be left with less than five percentage points of this total. With this money we would have to finance our day care services, basic education, secondary education, sports services, libraries, museums, streets, bike paths and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u65	Mr President! It is true that there will be a major change in the funding of municipalities, both in terms of central government shares and in terms of taxation, but in the future the municipalities will also collect tax and can of course, in self-government terms, decide on its level, not as they did the previous time, in order to reduce the tax level. And secondly: state aids still continue to come in the future. As a sign of this social welfare reform, it has been mentioned that the funding base for municipalities will be considered for the future, and we have a future work for municipalities that is about to start, how the future tasks and funding base of municipalities, both in terms of the reform of central government shares and in terms of tax revenue, will be seen as a whole. This is not just a state-owned reform or a mere tax reform, but a whole set of areas in which municipalities will take care of people's basic cultural services, technical activities and the vitality of municipalities in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u68	Mr President! I, too, will bring up Espoo. In 2018, 5,000 people moved to Espoo, of which 4,000 were foreign-language speakers. In 2019 the number was 4,111, of which 67 per cent were foreign-language speakers. This model of social funding does not take into account the need for funding in relation to the foreign-language population — yes, there is a bilingual one, but the funding base for the foreign-language population is inadequate. [Aki Lindén’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u69	Mr President! First of all, with regard to the urban areas that are growing into these special concerns. A criterion for population growth was added to the section of municipalities in this same reform. This is a criterion that has not previously existed in the state transfers of municipalities. The challenge of investing in day-care centres, schools and so on in these growing urban areas was the one that was created. These criteria: Yes, this social welfare reform also takes into account foreign language. It is one of the criteria there in these well-being areas,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u70	Mr President! The opposition's questions show that there is little familiarity with this social fund law. On the website of the Ministry of Finance, the high management of the Ministry of Finance wrote a great blog on this subject, which showed that social welfare funding is based on three things by multiplying: There is a basic price that is the same for the whole country, for example EUR 1700 for health care, EUR 600 for care for the elderly and EUR 600 for other social services, i.e. per capita. This is multiplied by a demand factor, and this is multiplied by the population. The population-increasing regions will receive a significant increase in their funding, not only on the basis of a clean population but also on the basis of the needs of the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u71	And Minister Kiuru, was the law interpreted correctly?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u72	Mr President! The answer is yes. I am also quite familiar with this law, and I also know the law of the last period, and it has been common to these two different years of government work that, after the statements of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs from 2014 to 2015, Finland has long since been defined, we are in a situation where this type of social and health care solution, which is presented as a basic solution, is the one that can also be accepted in Parliament, and this is accompanied by this funding system, which has already been the subject of development in the last period, that is to say, the financing system based on the need for services, was still under way at that time. At the time, this share of the need for services was slightly higher, but it has been criticised, as is the case here, for strongly criticising this service-based approach, and this government is now correcting this proposal so,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u73	Mr President! The two major objectives of the social welfare reform were to get through the queues smoothly and to make enough money. Instead of this major administrative and regional reform, the Coalition Party would now like to focus on continuing on the current municipal base as cooperation between municipalities – most of Finland is already well along this path.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u79	Mr President! I fully agree that social and health care reform must finally be carried out. In that sense, I believe that everyone in Parliament has a desire and a need for it, [AnttiCall]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u82	Today's next topic, Mr. Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u83	Mr President! Unfortunately, the interest rate situation in Finland has worsened in the past week. Almost half of Finland is currently either in the accelerated or spread phase of the epidemic, and today, according to THL, nearly 500 new cases have been recorded. Unfortunately, older age groups too are again infected and the number of people in the hospital is increasing. I'm afraid the trend is very clear. The situation of epidemics now requires extremely good and careful, rapid, clear and accessible communication for all citizens. At the moment, this communication focuses on regionalism. Kingdom media tell a lot about what is happening in the capital region, but then county newspapers are behind various payment walls in very many provinces, and today everyone, such as younger ones, no longer subscribes to newspapers and online information can be sometimes distorted. In this situation, how can we now ensure that:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u84	Mr President! I would like to point out that the meeting does not now have the wrong impression of the recent debate, and I would like to say that when the need for services increases, the state will provide additional funding. This was the subject of a major debate during the last term of government whether or not to do so, and this bill is based precisely on the fact that this increase in service needs is being addressed in all regions. [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : Now to Mr Essayah. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u87	Now I ask those representatives who want to ask questions about this corona issue to stand up and press the V button. — Mr Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u88	Mr President! The interest has spread all over the country, as we know. In the spring we had problems with the Swedish border. Double citizens are allowed to come to Finland because Finns can always come here. Now that in Russia the corona is out of control and the number of cases of disease is record, there will be double citizens from Russia who move back and forth every day across the border to Finland. The weekend will include competitions in Kontiolahti, for example, where a large number of the owners of these two passports are expected to attend the stands. Should people from Russia be quarantined?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u89	Mr President! In principle, the basic principle is that — as I am sure Minister Ohio would say if he were here to answer this question — it goes that, for Finns, our constitution also protects us in such a way that we go and we come. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u90	Congressman Holopainen's Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u91	Mr President! Indeed, interest rate infections are now spreading rapidly, up to 30% per week. Continuous, extensive and appropriate communication is the key. I would like to ask Prime Minister Marin: what measures will the Prime Minister's Office and the authorities take to combat dangerous misinformation about the corona epidemic, and what measures will be taken to improve the efficiency and resources of the state and the cities themselves, even at a time when the epidemic is not in the phase of spreading?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u92	Mr President! The best way to resist and tackle disinformation is to have the right information available on a low threshold, easily understandable to all citizens. Sharing the right information is the best way to combat disinformation, i.e. information that is not true. We have increased the resources of the Prime Minister's Office in the area of information, and the supplementary draft budget also includes additional appropriations for communication, so that communication can be made in an understandable way towards the citizens. But here too, of course, is the way in which the Finnish media, the newspapers, the media generally ensure that information is available to the public and that information is correct. This growing spread of false information is a major problem. It is a big problem in society — not only during the corona period, it is a big problem, but also elsewhere. There is certainly much more to be done in this regard, and this work will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u93	Congressman Kivela.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u94	Mr President! The interest rate situation is serious and there is further concern that the virus has already been found in at least nine countries in fur farms. The World Health Organization (WHO) has highlighted the risk of fur farming in the spread of corona. Denmark's policy to kill all the tarhamks in the country because of the corona virus mutation has been much on display, but the Netherlands and Poland, for example, are now driving down fur farming. Finland is the only country among the four largest fur producing countries in Europe that has not yet taken the necessary decisions. The main reason for banning fur farming is the rights of the animals, but fur farms are also a risk factor related to the spread of the pandemic and the effectiveness of the vaccine. I ask Minister Leppa: how is Finland taking into account the fact that during this corona period fur farming is being significantly restricted elsewhere in Europe?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u95	Mr President! It is true that a corona virus can be transmitted and transmitted through minks and other weasels. It can also mutate in them, and it has caused concern. And in these countries, what the questioner listed, there have been corona infections in mink gardens and the authorities have taken action. We have our Food Agency monitoring the situation very closely, investigating the situation, we have been taking samples all along. The first 30 fur stars that have been examined: all samples negative, we have no viral infection on these farms. We also have effective instruments for the authorities, the Animal Health Act, which provides sufficient means to intervene immediately if such an outbreak of the virus on farms occurs. But such things have not yet happened, and so we have not taken any action. But the follow-up is very accurate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u96	Ledamot Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u97	Mr President, värderade talman! Koronapandemia has shown what can be achieved by cooperation and determination. In a short period of time, research into vaccines has taken steps forward, and many of these vaccines have proved effective in testing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u98	Mr President! First of all, we already have three different vaccines in the process of considering the EU Medicines Agency’s marketing authorisation, and in this regard it will decide on the final timetable. In other words, three products are currently subject to marketing authorisation assessments, and in that respect we have committed ourselves to all the procurement of vaccines within the framework of the EU which has already been mentioned. Well, how quickly can we proceed? It depends on whether marketing authorisations and thus products are placed on the market. Our starting point is that the target groups for the vaccine will be selected on a medical basis. This means, of course, that when groups are defined, account must be taken of the guidance given by the pharmaceutical authority on which age the vaccine can be given and, for example, whether there are other restrictions on the use of these vaccines.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u99	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. Here the Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of one hour will now be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Let's go talk to him. Congressman Honkasalo. I would ask other representatives, if there are debates on other issues, to move outside the Chamber and also away from those external doors, so that Mr Honkasalo's speech can be heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u100	Mr President! Today's citizens' initiative is a welcome start for us decision-makers. I would like to thank those who have taken the initiative for this. The initiative proposes to abolish the use of cannabis and the possession of small quantities and the penalisation of education. For example, the initiative is not about legalising the sale of cannabis or about abolishing the impunity of other drugs. However, the debate on the initiative is difficult to engage in with dispassionateness and on the basis of the information that has been studied. The debate is often characterised by so - called narcophobia. Narcophobia refers to a fearful and emotional attitude toward drugs and people who use them. Narcophobia well illustrates the atmosphere in which the debate on the use of cannabis is taking place today — the fear of drugs and the stigmatisation of people using them. However, it would be important to be able to discuss the benefits and disadvantages of the initiative on the basis of facts. The fact is that the use of cannabis has become widespread in our society, as is the case around the world. Almost a quarter of Finns have tried cannabis at least once. There's a big difference. In 92 years only 6 per cent of Finns had tried cannabis. So we cannot just close our eyes and think that when drugs are completely banned, nothing will happen on the drug front. The fact is that drugs are being used, whether we like it or not. It is therefore up to us to make a wise policy that responds to the needs for change that our society needs. Mr President! The law must be an instrument, not an end. We should therefore ask what is the goal we want to achieve in substance abuse policy. What are the tools we need? Our task is to look at the impact of the current substance abuse policy in our society and openly consider whether we need change. We in the Left Alliance are seeking a society in which everyone's well-being is important and where everyone's dignity is realised. However, drug users are often the most marked group that is spoken of without respect for human dignity. Recent studies on problem drug users reveal a deep lack of awareness, which has often started early. Intoxicant abusers are also easily treated negatively by public authorities, making access to treatment and seeking help more difficult. Intoxicant abusers are easily excluded. Is this the goal we want in our society? Mr President! Criminalisation and control are not the best means of preventing drug harm. We know that a drug policy based on penalties has not produced praiseworthy results. Intoxicant use and trade have not decreased and users have been pushed into the margin. The use of criminal law only exacerbates the problem of substance abuse by causing excessive accompanying consequences. Many users are random users or experimenters. Even a small amount of behaviour and possession is punishable by a criminal record, which can remain in the person’s register for up to ten years. Some 15,000 operational offences are reported to the police every year. The label may hinder access to a job or study place, according to the survey, in more than 60 sectors. You can only imagine what it means in a young person's life, who has a job search and a life ahead of him. This is also a waste of society and deprives the police of a great resource. Criminal law should be the last resort to protect interests. Intoxicant abuse policy should be done in a way that reduces harm, not punishments above. We should therefore improve our system of substance abuse and rehabilitation and safeguard more resources rather than a system of punishment for mental health services. Mr President! Drug policy is also a strong issue of fundamental and human rights. The criminality and stigmatisation of even the minor use of substance abusers violates fundamental rights. Intoxicant abusers are not always afraid to use social and health services in fear of authorities and punishments. Services may also be refused because of the use of drugs. Drug use of cannabis has also been made excessively difficult, causing unnecessary suffering. Current practice is impossible for those who use cannabis medically when a person seeking help from cannabis commits a crime and is deprived of help or risking himself. A separate discussion on the use of medicinal products is absolutely necessary. We also know that international drug policy is closely linked to human rights. The so-called war on drugs has not only failed to solve the drug problem but has also led to human suffering and enormous social, health and environmental problems around the world. Despite these penalties, international drug business flourishes, feeding, among other things, child labour and trafficking in human beings. Mr President! When we talk about abolishing the impunity of cannabis use and possession, it is good to talk about not only the disadvantages associated with it, but also its benefits. One of the benefits of abolishing impunity would be that the abolition of the use and possession of cannabis would reduce the stigma for users and lower the user’s threshold to seek assistance and support. It would make treatment guidance and early intervention more effective. It would reduce criminal records and their negative phenomena and release police resources. According to the Constitution, public authorities are obliged to promote the well-being, health and safety of citizens. This obligation also applies to users of drugs. Intoxicant abuse policy should therefore be done on a factual basis, aiming for well-being and a decent life for all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u101	Mr President! First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Honkasalo's speech. It seems that the Left wants to turn the law into law here too, and that it will then become better and better. But let's get back to this debut. Mr President! The citizens' initiative proposes a legislative amendment that would eliminate punishment for the personal use of cannabis and the use of cannabis for that purpose, as well as the possession of small quantities for its own use. This initiative is justified by the fact that the current policy has not reduced the harm and that bringing cannabis into legal control would undermine the crime associated with it. I would see exactly the opposite. The de-crimination of cannabis, i.e. the approval of use and manufacture, in line with the initiative, would increase the use of cannabis and the resulting disadvantages. Even if it is possible to grow cannabis at home for your own use, it is a fact, however, that drug trafficking is in the hands of organised crime. Organised crime would be pleased to face such a business opportunity. It is up to society to try to reduce the use of drugs. That is also the commitment of the government, as recorded in the Government Programme. The starting point must be that no one should start using drugs and that those who are already using it should stop doing so. It is not up to society to make use of it legally and without sanctions. The purpose of the legislation is to demonstrate desirable behaviour and to try to raise the threshold for unwanted behaviour. Mr President! But there are gravel sounds inside the government. The President of the Greens and the Minister for Police Affairs, Mr Ohio, has told us that his party's drug policy aims at decrimination of the use and possession of all drugs, even the hardest substances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u110	Mr President! Many times the citizens' initiative coming into this Chamber is to be welcomed, but I do not support this citizens' initiative. Mr Rantanen well said here what the disadvantages are, and I fully agree with him. Mr Honkasalo, who confirmed the opinion of the left as a pro-drug party, said otherwise. True Finns have generally objected to the legalization of cannabis. We are not allowed to sell hats, and now we should be allowed to use drugs — it is quite amazing. Many times, though, if someone was using cannabis and legalized it, there would be a lot of other guys starting to think that when that's legal, I'll try it, too. That's where the circle of friends would expand in the use of drugs when it's legal. When no one is afraid that there may be some punishment for it, let's try it. All of a sudden, we're on the stronger drugs. Well, then, if you could grow these at home, the young aloe vera plants would suddenly turn into cannabis plants, once it's legal and grown, and when the guys come to the village they'll be offered and maybe you could try it yourself. And then it would be difficult for the police or neighbors to catch these breeders. After all, many times today, even in the stairwell, where the breeding takes place, smelling is noticed, no matter how extensive it is growing, when it is suspected that there is only one plant there from where the odour damage comes from. Well, then there's a lot of people who wouldn't use cannabis. These cannabis users would suddenly rent windowsills from these non-users: ‘For four plants, such as a 20-year-old’s allowance. “ Suddenly even criminal gangs would start doing it, demanding that people now put these plants on your windowsills so that they could sell them. We have a very serious drug problem in Lahti. I've been watching how, as a result, bicycles disappear and there's a lot of burglaries, criminal organisations, they have a lot of confrontations. All of these relate to the use of drugs there, and that is a very difficult situation. And this kind of legalizing mild drugs suddenly leads to more serious crimes, though, not necessarily all, but if even a small group grows, it is a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u111	Mr President! Narcotics talk to us once again, and that's a good thing. Drug use is constantly increasing and the resulting harm is increasing. Some are already ready to declare war on drugs to be destroyed. Personally, I have been dealing with drugs for over two decades — as long as I have been with the police — and for some years I have also been working in the field of drug control, focusing solely on drug-related crime, that is, the tangible experience of drugs and their effects. The will of the citizens' initiative is to remove the criminality of cannabis. This means that the possession and use of small quantities would not be punishable. In these discussions, it is very often justified by treatment and its possibility. Users do not apply for treatment because it causes problems. This is also very often justified by individual freedom. Everyone should be allowed to do what they want with their own body. The arguments are quite good and noble, but they are very simple. We already have a deceniting exercise, especially with regard to young people. In the case of drug use offences, the police must offer treatment. If you consent to treatment, no penalty shall be imposed. For some strange reason, very few take up this opportunity, even though at that point it will no longer harm us any more. In the case of minors aged 15 or over, the penalty must not be imposed at all, but should be directed to the care and care of the social services. The use of cannabis should be divided into three categories: drug use, entertainment and random use, and problem use. The use of medicinal products must be excluded from this debate; it should not be confused with it. In random users, very few people feel that there is a problem and therefore there is no treatment without it. Problem users experience a high degree of indiscretion, which makes it impossible to apply for treatment. This is one of the reasons why treatment is so lame. We don't have forced treatment, and that wouldn't work. Getting rid of drugs requires a lot of personal will to succeed. Well, do we have enough treatment capacity? In Kuopio, for example, there are 12 treatment centres, two of which are for drug users. In order to organise a treatment such as that envisaged, it would require huge investments in treatment systems. There is also a general misconception that monitoring is no longer necessary. Yes, I do, and it would become more difficult and more complicated. In one hand, a drug would be illegal and would become legal if it were transferred to another hand. This is what it would mean when caring would be illegal, but possession and use would not. How will this be monitored in practice?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u116	Representative S.H.I.E.L.D. has suggested putting it on the table if I count quickly, 3.12. to the plenary session. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u117	Mr President! Representative S.H.I.E.L.D. made a good and worthy proposal. This is a large citizens' initiative, and it is then in accordance with the dignity of Parliament's authority and democracy that ministers are present here in the debate. There is no Minister of Justice Henriksson here, there is no Minister of Interior Ohio here, and we should discuss the citizens' initiative of the Finnish people, a large group of citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u118	Now, Mr Heinonen, at this time, if there is any other proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u119	I think that this proposal is a good and worthy one. I support the proposal put forward by Mr S.H.I.E.L.L.D. to continue the work on Thursday 3 December, and the Bureau must ensure that the ministers are present.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u120	As such, this proposal for table setting does not need to be supported, but it has now been supported. Any other dates? — Mr Niikko, is there another day?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u121	President! Of course, this 3 December Thursday sounds very good, but it should now be considered that the representatives are here too, so that it will not be put there at the end of the tail. It's important that you...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u122	Now we are discussing this date.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u123	Well, we're just discussing the date of the day.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u124	Any other suggestions for the date?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u125	Yes, this third day is very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u126	So there were no other suggestions. — Mr Purra, do you have another date?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u127	Mr President! I would like to point out that this depends on what other citizens' initiatives may have already been put on the list, so that this does not postpone them, which we would otherwise deal with next Thursday.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u128	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u129	Mr President! I would have asked if it was customary for the ministers concerned to always be present in the discussion of these initiatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u130	It's got nothing to do with this. There won't be another show on the date. — Representative Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u131	Mr President! There is another citizens' initiative on the table, so I would like to propose Wednesday, 2 December. — You can cancel your presentation and present your proposal on 2 December.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u132	We've had two performances. — Representative S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u133	Mr President! I'm pulling off that Thursday request. Wednesday will be fine.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u134	Congressman Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u135	Mr President! I was wondering if, as the criterion here was that the minister would be present, it would be appropriate to check with the minister and just agree that it would be put on the table and look at the appropriate day on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u136	It's just a date.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u137	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 6/2020 by the Committee on Audit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u138	Mr President! The Audit Committee dealt almost all autumn with this government's annual report and we came to a unanimous report. Unfortunately, now that there has been such a change in the schedule of sittings, the chairman of the committee is not here to present — but will probably rush in quickly. I'll pick up a few things from here. Firstly, the audit committee discussed security of supply, and in this report we say that we will continue to monitor security of supply. And why did I do that? Because this corona period has shown us the importance of safety-related issues and, in this context, the importance of the Security of Supply Centre and the security of supply activities and the fact that the experience and lessons we have learned during this year would be made available as well as possible and, if necessary, we would be able to make repairs, because there is certainly a need for that too. We are aware that this work is already being carried out on a number of fronts, but the Audit Committee will look into these reports under preparation and will then decide on the direction and priorities and timetables of its own committee work. So we'll be dealing with security of supply. The second point concerns the police, the security issue too. There was talk of an increase in the number of police officers under the elections — all parties agreed on that — and now we are not quite getting what the government parties have promised. This is reflected in the investigation of financial crime, in the fight against the shadow economy. And what does the committee say about this? We say that funding for the police must be long-term and more predictable. Repelling work requires planning, and this kind of additional annual funding bounces does not make the situation easier. We also took a stand at the Emergency Response Centre. There have been good reforms, but the problem is the well-being of staff, the number of staff, the division of work and the consultation of staff. We hope that there will be sufficient staff, capacity and competence, as well as:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u139	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen. — The chairman of the committee arrived. We've already heard the announcement of Mäkisalo-Ropponen, but if you don't mind, let's give a presentation. Sorry, there's been a slight change in the schedule. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u140	Sorry. I apologize for being a little late and coming out of that office breathless when I tried to follow the course of the sitting, but it went a little wrong. In other words, the report by the Audit Committee on the Government's annual report is being discussed and the following points are being raised in that committee's report. First of all, the risk management of central government in the event of disturbances and exceptional circumstances: The Audit Committee has previously addressed the risk management of central government in its report in February 2019. At that time, the Audit Office had explained how the state agencies, institutions and ministries were prepared to ensure the continuity of their activities in the event of disturbances in normal circumstances. The responsibility of individual agencies was emphasised, even though the way in which society and state administration operate and problems have become more complex and multi-sectoral. The resources of the individual agency were insufficient and there was no comprehensive risk management of the state. On the basis of the committee's report, Parliament required that the Government take immediate action to improve the state's risk management and by the end of 2020 define policies compatible and effective with government-level, sub-administrative and agency-level risk management and determine the responsible ministries and other responsibilities. According to the Audit Committee, the ongoing pandemic has continued to highlight the need to organise comprehensive risk management in central government. It is important that comprehensive risk management is managed centrally and that risk management is part of knowledge-based management and decision-making. The Committee believes that comprehensive risk management will allow for the identification of the most significant financial risks and will also allow more efficient use of resources. The committee also emphasises the information provided by foresight work and its use in identifying risks. It is good that the link between foresight work and risk management has been identified. According to the committee, lost opportunities should also be identified and considered as risks. Risk management is a complex entity and requires good professionals and diverse expertise to succeed. In spring 2020, the Ministry of Finance has set up a working group to prepare during December proposals on key objectives and policies for government-level risk management. The co-operation, powers and responsibilities of the various authorities have also been raised by the issue of the Koronapandem and the rapid action taken to combat it. In his recent ruling, the Deputy Chancellor of Justice has dealt with the jurisdiction and responsibilities of the authorities in the exceptional circumstances of spring. It is the intention of the Audit Committee to monitor security of supply in the future. The National Audit Office is also launching an audit of security of supply operations. In addition, studies on security of supply and the operations of the Supply Security Centre are under way. The committee will examine them before starting its own work. The second is the fight against the shadow economy: The Committee welcomes the fact that Finland has had a programme of measures to combat the shadow economy for almost 25 years. The latest strategy and operational programme for the fight against the shadow economy and financial crime have been adopted in June for the years 20 to 23. It includes more than 20 different projects and more than 50 measures. An additional EUR 20 million has been earmarked in the Government Programme to combat the shadow economy for this parliamentary term. In its report, the committee deals with research in the fight against the shadow economy and the development of cooperation between the authorities and the resources of the authorities. The effectiveness of the measures to combat the shadow economy has been assessed in some respects, but to date such ex post monitoring has not established itself as part of the research activities of the shadow economy and has not been allocated any resources. New news is that in the Government Resolution, EUR 200,000 has been set aside to carry out impact assessments. The Committee welcomes the fact that measures have already been adopted in the field of prevention when the impact assessments are being drawn up and that more systematic steps have been taken to assess and measure the effectiveness of the fight. The committee stresses that the work requires adequate resources. The Committee also considers it important that systematic research is now under way in relation to aggressive tax planning. This will provide a better and better quality of research as a basis for decision-making in the future. The Committee stresses the need for adequate resources and access to the existing data of the Tax Administration for research activities, while at the same time guaranteeing the independence required by objective research in relation to tax supervision and taxpayers. New research data should also be made publicly available to decision-makers and citizens alike. Therefore, the necessary resources and technical means of implementation must also be provided for the publication of studies. on the exchange of information and cooperation between authorities: Last year, in line with the committee's proposal, Parliament required the government to report in the context of the Government's annual report on the steps it has taken to develop the exchange of information between authorities in the fight against the shadow economy. This year, provisions on food law and the law on the processing of personal data in immigration management have already entered into force, which will allow better exchange of information between authorities. In addition, a number of legislative projects are under way, involving an assessment of the reliability of the trader or his related party. Resources of the authorities: The committee has considered it important to secure the capacity of the authorities in the fight against the shadow economy and to regularly monitor resource needs. The new operational programme will include a project on a common resource monitoring system for key authorities. The strength and effectiveness of the fight are built on cooperation between the various authorities, and the resources of the key authorities should therefore be considered as impact chains. The resource cuts or additions of one authority are also reflected in the activities of other authorities. The fight requires planning and the ability to respond to new phenomena and to use the latest technology in cooperation with different authorities. Resources for the fight against the shadow economy and financial crime must continue to be secured, and funding must be long-term and more predictable for the authorities. The committee strongly supports projects for the further development of multi-authority cooperation models. It is also important that a monitoring system for staff years targeted at the fight against the shadow economy and financial crime be put in place as a matter of urgency for all key public authorities. On the basis of the information currently available, it is difficult to assess the overall resources needed to combat the shadow economy effectively and their allocation between the various authorities. For the productivity benefits of Ict projects: Parliament's position on this issue is valid from 2014. At that time, the Parliament required the Government to assess the results, costs and productivity benefits of significant IT projects as part of the monitoring of the project portfolio and to report the results to Parliament. A picture of the state of play of significant ICT projects in central government is currently being maintained in a joint project portfolio service managed by the Digi and Population Agency. At the end of 2019, a total of 160 projects in the project portfolio had 32 projects, i.e. 20% of the project's target euro benefits. The main benefit is envisaged in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment and the smallest in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. According to expert consultations, for the STM, the benefit calculations of the projects do not include projects of municipalities and joint municipal authorities, which explains the small proportion of the economic benefits sought by the STM administration. The Audit Committee does not consider the reporting by the Board of Directors on the results, costs and productivity benefits of ict projects to be sufficient. Now it looks like 10 minutes is up, but can I just go on for a second? [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : Dear Representative, so good speech that I would like to listen to another sentence. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u143	Yes, and you will be able to make the floor yourself.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u144	Mr President! The aim of the audit activities is always to learn. The ex-post evaluation of matters will enable us to learn, first of all, from good and workable practices, to strengthen them and to take sensible practices further. From mistakes we can learn things that are not worth doing and that require correction. This is also the case with the Audit Committee. Thank you, Mr Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, for presenting the report. In my own speech, I am raising a number of societal learning needs. Firstly, the corona epidemic made it clear that we have a lot to deal with in terms of risk management. Risk management is fragmented and has direct shortcomings. There is no comprehensive risk management system and no responsible parties have been identified. As a result, we were not prepared for a crisis such as a corona pandemic. Fortunately, reforms have now begun in order to correct the situation, which the Audit Committee intends to follow up on. We have been subject to special supervision by security of supply operations, which are designed to prepare for the maintenance of functions vital to society in the event of disturbances and exceptional circumstances. Korona is not the last epidemic we are facing, and if we learn from this, we will be better prepared for the next similar crisis. The committee also discussed the relationship and contact points between risk management and foresight work. Thus, in the light of the foresight information, the Koronapandem was no surprise. International research institutes had been talking about the risks of such a pandemic for several years. In Finland, the Committee on the Future stated in its report last season that we should be better prepared for a possible pandemic and epidemic caused by the virus. However, the foresight information was not taken seriously and nothing was done about it. I hope we've learned our lesson now. Prediction data must be learnt to use and, based on the information, to review risk management plans. Mr President! The committee's report has also taken a position on the management of different risks, that is to say, we have assessed the success of the emergency centre reform and the need for operational development. The Emergency Response Centre has a key role to play in maintaining internal security and providing basic security for citizens. In Finland, the state-run emergency response centre activities were introduced as early as 2001, when isolated municipal emergency response centres and emergency police alert centres were merged into state-run emergency centres. The reform carried out between 2001 and 2005 established 15 emergency centres in different parts of the country. The reform carried out between 2011 and 2014 reduced the number of emergency centres to six by combining and shutting down emergency centres. As a result of the 2011 reform, the level of emergency centre services has improved. Among other things, response times for services have been reduced, regional differences in access to services have decreased and operational security has improved. It is positive that the services are available around the clock from one emergency number and the same emergency number, and with the reforms, the operating methods of the entire public administration chain have been harmonised at national level. At the moment, there are also significant concerns about the emergency centre activities. The adequacy of skilled on-call personnel is a particular concern. The number of staff is already so small that it poses a risk to the quality of the provision of emergency centre services. The number of personnel has decreased even though the number of emergency reports received has increased. The number of on-call staff required has not been properly assessed in the reforms and efforts to increase the number of on-call staff have not been sufficient. This has led to a worryingly low level of staff satisfaction, sick leave at a higher level than the rest of the state administration and recruitment problems per region. Dismissal of on-call staff has increased so that the number of graduates is not sufficient to cover the annual departure. The Committee considers it important that attention be paid to the adequacy, ability and competence of staff in the future, in order to ensure the good functioning of emergency centre services. The Emergency Response Centre activities are based on a multi-professional approach, but the hearings of the Audit Committee also revealed that insufficient use is made of health professionals and telemedicine, for example, as well as the use of images and videos in evaluation situations. This type of cooperation is particularly important when assessing acute situations in older people. More mobile units in the home service should also be set up. This would lead to more humane and often more rational solutions for society's resources. President! As the third learning point, we discussed the transfer of basic income support from municipalities to the Social Insurance Institution in 2017. This issue is also relevant to the committee's own project on improving the impact assessment of legislative proposals. The Audit Committee already dealt with the matter in 2017 and stated at the time that the key reason for the transition to Kela, i.e. the creation of savings, proved to be incorrect with the new calculations and, on the contrary, it was found that the transfer would entail additional costs in the future. The increase in costs is partly explained by the increase in the number of customers in income support. In addition, Kela's advance estimate of the number of personnel required proved to be too low. Initially, it was estimated that the transfer of income support would save money, in particular because Kela's efficient information system structures were expected to improve the processing of applications. However, this did not happen in practice, and the transfer has even resulted in additional manual work. The need for human resources has been double what was estimated in advance. The report of the expert group preparing the Kela transfer and the opinions on the Board's proposal highlighted reservations regarding the implementation of the model and the savings sought. However, these risks were not highlighted in the actual Government proposal. In drafting the legislation, the impact of the Kela transfer on other authorities was assessed from the perspective of only a few authorities. It has subsequently been shown that the reform has increased the workload of experts in TE services, complaints and complaints authorities, among others. The assessment should have taken into account the wider impact of the Income Support Act and the different authorities, which would also have made it possible to assess the impact of the reform on the workload and costs of the administration. There were also serious shortcomings in the prior evaluation of municipalities, but I think I will speak about these in the next speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u145	Mr President! This unanimous report by the Audit Committee on the Board's Annual Report for 2019 and the Special Report of the National Audit Office for 2019 are indeed dealing with a number of very important issues. I think this report is very good. I am also a member of the Audit Committee, and I hope that many Members of Parliament will also be able to take a good look at this. There are a number of important issues here in relation to the current debate on security of supply, the fight against the shadow economy, the reform of emergency centre services and the transfer of basic income support to Kela, as well as the productivity gains of these ICT projects. The Koronapandem, which only came to us after 2019, highlighted the importance of ensuring security of supply for various exceptional times. And trust in our security of supply has certainly been pretty deep — we Finns have been proud of our security of supply centre and how we are prepared, for example, for the security of supply of food — but, unfortunately, this confidence has been damaged now that this corona pandemic has come to pass, when we have lived for a long time in the lack of various medical supplies. That is why I think it is very important that the National Audit Office is launching an inspection of security of supply operations and that the Audit Committee will also continue to monitor the security of supply activities. On another point, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to this fight against the shadow economy, which has been a very important issue throughout the parliamentary term, but it remains. And here I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is important that in the fight against the shadow economy there is no bottleneck in this chain of authorities which, as it were, prevents the completion of good things, i.e. that both the Tax Administration, the Ministry of the Interior, the Police Government, Customs and the judiciary also have sufficient resources and the authorities also have sufficient capacity to cooperate in the fight against the shadow economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u146	Mr President! It is actually quite good that the previous representative decided on a grey economy. I myself was thinking of concentrating my contribution on this broad package, because I think there are important entries. The Audit Committee has been very active over the years, specifically in the fight against the shadow economy. I think it is a good record of the committee for a long time, and thank you to the President-in-Office for having once again been on our agenda in this way. All in all, there is an important record here which I think is a record of the future which is also worthy of this Parliament's attention, and in it we are talking about independent research and its inclusion in aggressive tax planning. All in all, it is very important that we do not lose that valuable tax money because people or communities are able to plan taxation and take various measures to minimise their own tax levels, and thus the common good, such as the care of the elderly or the children's way of education, would not have as much resources as it itself, in the interests of justice. And this is now the intention, through the programme to combat the shadow economy which the Government has just adopted — a number of good measures, one of which is — to extend this research into independent research, so that we can have enough information to support decision-making on this phenomenon, what kind of legislation is perhaps needed to promote and develop this issue in the right direction. A study is currently under way on how to organise this independent research activity in the future, and the Tax Administration is currently wondering whether there would be an internal arrangement to be made there for this particular research unit. As far as this is concerned, we would like to express our thanks to the committee for the fact that we believe that all the models in question should verify the independence of this study of the shadow economy, for example, in relation to the Tax Administration itself or to the Tax Supervisor or so on, that it is independent and sufficiently resourced to enable it to operate. We are also referring here to Norway, where there is a tax research centre, for example. There's about 20 people working there, and they're producing information about this. I believe that with this kind of development, President, we will also have more resources and more responsibilities in the future, perhaps then we will see,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u147	Mr President! Preparing for problems and things is very important. It is significant that security of supply works. In particular, this interest rate has now shown us that it is really important to take care of it. And what must be taken care of, of course, is food supply, medical supplies, cereals, hospital supplies, medicines, and all sorts of other health products — and oil. Of course, I have some concerns about this energy self-sufficiency as well. Now that we are trying to drive down this peat, I am concerned about it. I have heard that this security of supply has been taken quite seriously in the past. These stocks have been much larger and larger, and they have been distributed to the wider area, but they are not quite so today. I would also like a little more attention to be paid to the fact that those security of supply products are spread to a wider area of Finland, because in the face of a crisis it is all right that they are not just in one place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u148	Mr President! I would like to continue my previous speech on the transfer of basic income support to Kela, its effects, and now a few words about what it meant for the municipalities. For municipalities, the aim of the Kela transfer was to release human resources for social work and the development of social work that activates adult social work. However, this objective did not make any significant progress either. The number of benefit handlers required to make income support decisions, and hence the related personnel expenditure in municipalities, has decreased, but at the same time the number of social workers, social workers and social workers involved in income support work has increased. The reason for this development is, among other things, that working time for other social professionals is now being spent on matters relating to basic income support. The Audit Committee drew particular attention to the fact that, in addition to the shortcomings of the financial impact assessment, the customer impact assessment was made very poorly. The situation of the most vulnerable did not improve but, rather, worsened. The availability and accessibility of services are particularly difficult for customers who, for one reason or another, are unable to apply for income support electronically. In conclusion, the reform has benefited those who only apply for basic income support without special needs. The application for supplementary and preventive income support has become more complex, as first you must apply for and obtain a decision on basic income support before you can apply for supplementary or preventive income support. Hopefully, this process will teach us that the effectiveness of legislation on basic citizens' security should always be assessed from the point of view of the most vulnerable group of people. The committee is also concerned about the information that has emerged from the expert consultation on the deterioration in the link between social work and income support. Traditionally, there has been a strong link between income support and social work in municipalities, and this link has now deteriorated considerably. Mr President! As the fourth learning subject — and I mentioned these three subjects in my previous speech — we included in the report the fight against the shadow economy, on which good speeches have been made here. On the positive side, the Government has adopted a new strategy and action programme for the fight against the shadow economy and financial crime for the years 2020 to 2023. In the Government Programme, an additional EUR 20 million has been earmarked for this parliamentary term, with 20 different projects and more than 50 measures being implemented in cooperation with the various authorities. The committee will pay particular attention to assessing the effectiveness and resources of measures and research into the fight against the shadow economy. As the cases under investigation become more complex, the authorities must have sufficient resources and the capacity to cooperate with the authorities. Without seamless cooperation between the Tax Administration, the police and Customs, we will not be able to combat the shadow economy. For years, the committee has considered it important to ensure that the authorities are able to act in the fight against the shadow economy and to regularly monitor resource needs. Public authorities need additional funding to improve cooperation between authorities, develop technical interface solutions for the exchange of information and analyse activities. The resource cuts or additions of one authority are reflected in the activities of other authorities. The aim is now to create a chain-thinking resource monitoring of the resources of key authorities. The committee considers joint monitoring of resources to be important and will enable the functioning of the public authorities as a whole to be ensured. The evaluation of the effectiveness of the measures taken to combat the shadow economy has not established itself as part of the research activities of the shadow economy — this is what we in the committee have drawn attention to — nor has it previously had resources allocated to it. Now, in the Government Resolution, EUR 200000 has been set aside to carry out impact assessments and all projects have been designated responsible ministries and authorities responsible for carrying out the impact assessment of the project in question and for finding suitable methods for assessing the measures. This is not necessarily an easy matter, and there are challenges, especially in situations where the case goes beyond the boundaries of public authorities and administrative sectors. Challenges are also brought by different recording methods and statistical systems. It is particularly challenging to measure effectiveness in preventive action, but on the other hand, now that these challenges have been identified, it will also be easier to find solutions, because in any case we need to move forward on these issues. And then, as the last learning subject, the committee examined the assessment of the productivity gains of the ict projects. At the end of 2019, 120 ongoing and 40 completed projects worth more than EUR 1 million in a joint project portfolio service managed by the Digital and Population Agency. Of these 32 ict projects have been evaluated by the corresponding authorities for the objective of the euro benefits, which together represent a cumulative benefit potential of around EUR 1.7 billion by 2024. However, the committee drew attention to the fact that the cost-benefit assessment was very heterogeneous and, in part, very inadequate. Despite the guidelines, only one fifth of the projects have assessed the benefits of the project in euros, and only one in ten projects report the benefits achieved. This is worrying because, according to the Ministry of Finance’s guidance, those reporting to the State’s joint project portfolio should summarise the benefits of the project 6 to 12 months after the end of the project. Only around 10% of the projects that have now ended in the project portfolio have complied with this guideline. On the basis of expert consultations, the Ministry of Finance has not had an established practice that would allow a comprehensive verification of the benefits of the projects in the project portfolio. In the Committee's view, the Ministry of Finance should establish effective benefit monitoring practices for at least the so-called productivity-funded items. The committee stresses the need for reliable and consistent information and believes that the Ministry of Finance should take steps to put this right. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u149	Mr President! On this joint report by the committee, I was just in the middle of what I had intended to say about the Kela transfer, and then on the emergency centre reform, a few words, that is to say, I have come here to read them. In the drafting of the law, the impact of the Kela transfer on other authorities was only assessed from the perspective of a few authorities. According to the Audit Office, the reform has increased the workload of experts in TE services, complaints and complaints authorities, and thus increased the costs of the administration of the authorities. In fact, in the Committee on Audit, we unanimously stated that the impact of the authorities on the drafting of the legislation was too limited. The assessment should have taken into account the wider impact of the income support law on the various authorities, which would also have made it possible to assess the impact of the reform on the workload and costs of the administration. The audit findings of the Audit Office show that electronic systems have not improved the decision-making work on income support in municipalities to the extent expected in advance. The committee has already drawn attention to the same issue. Initially, it was estimated that the transfer of income support would save money, in particular because Kela's efficient information system structures were expected to improve the processing of applications. The reform has benefited income support customers who only apply for basic income support without special needs. However, the application for supplementary and preventive income support has become more complex. First, you must apply for and receive a decision on basic income support before you can apply for supplementary or preventive income support. The availability and accessibility of services are more difficult for customers who, for one reason or another, are unable to apply for income support electronically. The Audit Committee therefore draws serious attention to the fact that the customer impact assessment was made very inadequately when preparing the Kela transfer of basic income support. The situation of the most vulnerable did not improve, rather the opposite. The Committee stresses that the effectiveness of legislation on basic citizens' security should always be assessed from the perspective of the most vulnerable groups of people. The committee is also concerned about the weakening of the link between social work and income support. The current situation is worrying, as it will lead to longer processing times for applications and longer tackling problems. This situation also contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the Income Support Act, i.e. opportunities to promote the independent survival of income support customers and to prevent long-term income support customers. And then there's the reform of emergency services. In recent decades, emergency centre services have been the focus of ongoing reforms and structural development activities. In 2001, the state-run emergency response centre activities were transferred. 15 emergency centres were set up throughout the country during the 2001-2005 reform. Between 2011 and 2014, the number of centres was reduced to six by combining and shutting down emergency centres. The committee has assessed the reforms as a whole positively. The availability of services has improved and is produced more equitably across the country than before the reforms. The services are also available around the clock from one emergency number 112. However, the committee raises a number of issues which pose a risk to the quality of the provision of emergency centre services. Firstly, the reforms of emergency centre services have meant major continuous changes for staff. The reforms have taken up staff resources, significantly reduced staff and many workers have been forced to relocate to a new location. The committee considers that it has not been possible to correctly assess the number of emergency callers when carrying out reforms and developing operations. The number of on-call personnel has decreased at the same time as the number of emergency reports received by the centres has increased. The number of tasks per on-caller has increased significantly. According to the committee's assessment, the number of on-call staff is currently so small that it poses a risk to the quality of the provision of emergency centre services. In recent years, the number of graduates from the training of on-call staff has not been enough to cover even an annual departure. It would also be important to provide more regional resources. For example, Varsinais-Suomi has hardly left to study at the emergency school in Kuopio. The most challenging person situation is in Turku and also in Kerava. The committee attaches great concern to the increasing burden on the work of on-call staff, which has led to high and growing sick leave and a fall in job satisfaction. In order to ensure the quality of emergency centre services and, inter alia, to identify the need for assistance and to provide appropriate assistance, the Committee stresses the importance of a high level of vocational training and continuous training for on-call staff. The need for skills development is linked, for example, to the acute situations of older people in the sector and their identification. Responding as quickly as possible to a call and passing on an ambulance is not always appropriate for the solution of the situation or for the use of state funds. Finally, the fact that the issues raised by the Committee on Audit in its report are largely based on the positions in force and also in force in Parliament, so that the committee's proposal for a decision does not now include any actual new positions for approval by Parliament. The Committee’s opinion therefore calls for ‘the government to take due account of both the report and the statements made by the specialised committees. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank our Committee on Audit for a very good and constructive approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u150	Mr President! Our unanimous report begins with the risk management of central government in normal times and in the event of disturbances. In this report, we note and highlight the situations in the past of this corona pandemic, the fight against it and the way in which cooperation and powers and power relations between the authorities work. In such an exceptional moment or year, as this year, some of these problems have arisen. I am not going to put this to blame, but, in accordance with the spirit of the committee, I am going to put it in the tone that when problems arise, they must be written open and learn from it. One such issue that came to light in the spring was the issue of airports and the limits of competences. Take Helsinki Airport, for example. There is Finavia under the Prime Minister's office, the police and the Border Guard under the Ministry of the Interior, Customs under the Ministry of Finance, and then when ministers are involved, at least the Minister of Ownership Steering, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance and, of course, the Prime Minister in the role of Prime Minister. Here in our report we read a direct quote: 'According to the Chancellor of Justice, the measures taken in line with the Government's policy should have been seen in concrete terms at airports much more quickly, and the events at the airports in March 2020 showed that the crisis caused by the corona pandemic had not been prepared'. And this is one of the important monitoring findings of the committee, which is worth taking into account now, and certainly has been taken into account. Every crisis is an opportunity to learn new things, and next time the situation is on, then [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u151	Mr President! One more lesson I would like to mention at the end of this debate is the assessment of the productivity gains of the ict projects. As I said earlier in my speech, the evaluation is not carried out and it is not always done according to instructions. But another important message for the Audit Committee is that the ministries should ensure that the preparatory material produced by the agencies for the decision-making of information system investments is more clearly presented, on which basis the cost estimates presented are based and how accurate they can be considered. Indeed, at the moment, the estimates of the potential benefits are based solely on the information provided by the project authorities themselves, so there is quite a lot of uncertainty about the reliability and reality of the data. This is not good practice. Well, now the Minister of Finance has tried to solve the problem by giving state agencies and institutions a new guide — it has happened this year. And this is something that needs to be monitored, because it is a question of large sums of money in the ict projects. But, President-in-Office, I really hope that this good and unanimous report from the committee will be used in a learning spirit, just as Mr Kiuru has just said that mistakes must be learned. And we also need to learn to make better use of that foresight information than has been used so far, and then we will also have better ways of managing risks than is currently the case. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u152	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 21/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. General discussion, chairman of the committee, representative Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u153	Madam President! I shall briefly present the committee's report. This proposal complements the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the movement and importation of cultural goods into the customs territory of the Member States. This regulation aims to prevent the illicit trade in cultural goods and, above all, the financing of terrorism. The EU Regulation establishes a control system for the importation into the European Union of cultural goods defined in the Regulation from third countries. The Regulation requires Member States to lay down rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the Regulation and to take the necessary measures to ensure that they are implemented. The penalties provided for must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Currently, Finland has only regulated the export of cultural goods, but Finland is not only the country of transit but also the country of destination for objects unlawfully exported from its country of origin. In other words, it has recently been found that cultural objects of dubious background have been brought to Finland without a transit purpose. The ban on the transfer to the customs territory of the EU of cultural objects and sanctions for the prohibition referred to in the Regulation which have been exported in breach of the law will apply at the end of the year, when the proposed amendments are due to enter into force. Mr President! The Administrative Committee considers this proposal to be necessary and appropriate and supports the adoption of a draft law contained in a government proposal, subject to minor technical amendments to the entry into force provision. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u154	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u155	Madam President! I'm presenting my bill for the temporary amendment of the annual holiday law. This bill, which has already been launched in May, comes to the debate on referrals rather late, as some of it threatens to become sour. But I would point out that it is important to amend the annual leave law temporarily, at least until next May, because the corona pandemic has been prolonged since this initiative was tabled. For example, in the accommodation, restaurant and leisure services sector, as well as in the related welfare services sector, the interests of entrepreneurs and employers and the social partners, MaRa have already agreed with the Trade Union for Services to schedule annual holidays so that half are held or held before September and half by the end of April next year at the latest, but there is still a desire for change in other collective agreements. The government has made an exception here to health care and social services, which is all right. The current annual holiday law defines the holiday period from 2 May to 30 September as defined in Article 4(2) of the Act. During the time of the Koronapandemia, this in practice binds both capital and the ability of companies to organise staff for the time when it is most needed and, on the other hand, to spend their holidays when companies have the most quiet time — for example, for hotel staff, this is very likely to mean January next year. However, according to Article 20 of the Act, 24 working days of annual leave must be placed in the abovementioned holiday period, i.e. between May and September. As mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the initiative, companies which have overcome exceptional circumstances may not even have the cash to pay the holiday money immediately after the end of the pandemic. By temporarily amending the annual leave law so that the holiday period may be extended to May in this new situation, employers and workers will be given the possibility of flexibility to spend summer leave if the interests of the company or the employee so require. The transfer of annual leave must always be based on a real and justified need. The temporary legislative amendment proposed in this initiative is supported by Article 27 of the current annual leave Act. ) that the employer and employee may agree to a part of the leave exceeding 18 days for the next holiday period or after that as a savings leave. Even without a contract, an employee has the right to save more than 24 days of his annual leave if it does not cause serious harm to the production and service activities of the workplace. In exceptional times, however, there is a much greater need for mutual agreement and, in this situation, legislation must also give it the opportunity to deal with the crisis as well as possible in this situation. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u156	Madam Speaker! It was a pleasure to listen to the presentation of the law and to see that the representative has been familiar with the annual holiday regulations. In that regard, I just wanted to point out that, in everyday life, this flexibility is perhaps used even more, which legislation creates opportunities for it. Today, the so-called local arrangement between staff and companies is very much done, as people's own holiday needs are increasingly being taken into account in the sense that people have their own hobbies that they want to do outside the holiday period, and the reconciliation of their employees together with their employer is quite flexible. On the other hand, Mr Junnila's bill contains exactly what needs to be taken into account. The possibility must be created that, in exceptional circumstances, the company's staff and employer will be able to agree on the law more flexibly, and in that sense I am not here to break it down, but it is hoped that the legislation that is being adopted under exceptional circumstances will serve the very practices that will ensure the conditions for both staff and the company to operate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u157	Madam President! I took the floor to praise Mr Junnila's good initiative. This initiative has therefore been submitted, as we have heard, in May, but unfortunately it is not until the end of November, that is to say very late, in view of the fact that it was intended that the content should come into force for this year. But, as Mr Junnila himself said, a similar amendment to the annual leave law will certainly also be needed for the coming year, because unfortunately the interest rate is not disappearing from among us very soon. I just wanted to thank you for a good initiative, and if a similar initiative is taken for the coming year, I will gladly support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u158	Madam President! I would also like to thank Mr Junnila for his important initiative on the temporary amendment of the annual holiday law. Its explanatory statement has well explained why an extension of the holiday period would be justified. The holiday trips planned for the turn of the year and the ski season have been cancelled for many, and even next summer it may not be possible to make trips unless the interest rate situation is eased. In these circumstances, extending the holiday period would be in the interests of both employers and workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u159	Madam President! Indeed, Junnila's proposal is extremely good. Of course, regrettably, at this point, it seems that this debate is a little too late. So it would be absolutely brilliant if we could make it go away for next season. So much must be said here that it was a pleasure to hear how Mrs Myllykoski has understood that, especially at the moment when we are being torn apart by corona, there are quite a lot of employers and workers, especially in the small and medium-sized sector, who are walking a little in hand and hugging each other, and how to deal with this. Quite a lot has been done in the local agreement without the corona, more than the collective agreements and indeed the law would allow. The only thing that annoys me in this equation is that if such agreements are concluded, so to speak, the responsibility of 'irregularity' is borne only by the employer. And that is why sometimes it would be good to have some kind of change. But together it is quite often, almost the neck, done. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u160	Mr President! Thank you to the previous speakers for your feedback. And when Mr Pelkonen was hoping for an updated bill to take account of next year's situation, it may be that next week, although it will be launched, we hope that it will then be brought to the referral debate on the December side, so that it will actually take account of the year 2021, for example from 1 January to 31 December, when we still do not know how long this corona pandemic will last. And, as we know, the current law still mentions it from 2 May to the end of September, so that this does not in any way take account of the current situation in all sectors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u161	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u162	Madam President! Indeed, the main content of the initiative is that the purpose of the bill is to amend the Consumer Protection Act 38/78 so as to set a 10% interest rate cap on credit covered by the Consumer Credit Chapter of the Consumer Protection Act, including commodity credit. The interest rate cap would apply not only to contracts concluded after the entry into force of the law but also to contracts concluded before the entry into force of the law for the purpose of credit withdrawals made after the entry into force of the law. The basis here is that by tightening credit price regulation to a maximum of 10 % interest rate on the raised credit, it is possible to prevent those in need of easy money from being lured into unreasonably high-interest loans and thus to a significant extent to reduce the risk of debtors falling into a deep, long-term debt cycle. The positive effects of regulation will be reflected not only in a fall in the number of people who have lost credit data, but also in a weak financial situation as a growing purchasing power for those who have already taken on high interest rates loans. And the idea here is indeed — when this has been done — that this initiative has been taken as a whole, as it were, so to speak, putting in place or putting into effect, and it has, of course, been a pleasure to note that the government has now had the same line in this corona curvature. However, even though there are good reasons for this during the interest rate, this will not change anything in the future, even if the interest rate will disappear altogether, because the situation is that in some of the old years there was talk of so-called 'loaning', and at some point in this country we have now got a little bit of a run-off from the fact that we have actually legalised the issue of 'loaning'. I therefore propose that, even in this post-column life, we actually continue to have such a 10% interest rate cap on these credits. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u163	Madam President! Mr Laakso has taken a well-founded initiative. In principle, I am not in favour of precise regulation of the market, but we need to take into account the human aspect of this issue — over-indebtedness and the resulting mild phenomena, which affect society to a large extent. Interest-bearing operations are low and quick-lease production can easily lead to further applications where the interest rate mentioned by Mr Laakso increases so much that people will no longer be able to cope with their own obligations. However, the mere calculation of the interest rate may not be sufficient, but it would also be necessary to take action to prevent credit entries from destroying normal life. It is incomprehensible that labelling results in social incompatibility lasting between two and four years, which makes it difficult to obtain services or to conclude contracts on equivalent terms to those offered to other people. The recovery of credit data should be promoted and people should be given the opportunity to learn from their mistakes. If the invoices have been properly handled and the person has not at the same time committed crimes or other aggravating acts, it is important that the Consumer Protection Act be amended, but it would be equally important, or perhaps more important, to amend the Credit Information Act. Well, maybe there were some ideas already in this debate, so I think by Christmas I'll have a bill on this subject and direction too. But I would like to thank Mr Laakso for his work for the low incomes and the underprivileged.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u164	Madam President! I would also like to thank Mr Laakso for this good initiative. I myself have often taken a stand on this problem of over-indebtedness, which is not an individual problem, but a problem for our society as a whole. The reasons for this are diverse, but, in particular, the behaviour of quick-lease companies and the circumvention of regulation have put many citizens in distress. I am therefore disappointed that the proposal to reduce interest rates on commodity-linked credits by the Finns-based protest was not supported enough last time in the Chamber. Product-related loans represent a higher risk than has been investigated, especially for the impulsive indebtedness of working households. The proposal for stricter credit price regulation and a 10% interest rate cap, in line with Mr Laakso's protest, should therefore be supported. The positive effects of regulation should be reflected not only in the fall in the number of people who have lost credit data but also in a weak financial situation as a growing purchasing power for those who have already taken on high interest rates loans. The issue should be looked at in a broader context, for example, the advertising of speed levers is an important part of it. It is a good thing that this has now been addressed in exceptional circumstances, but controlling advertising and direct marketing should also be part of our legislation in the future and permanently.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u165	Madam President! Yes, Mr Laakso is on the right track, and it is quite indisputable that we should look at this as a whole — I think the same way. Now, however, the government has acted in this corona situation, and now we have the experience base, when perhaps it is good to start preparing it so that you can see it. It has just come to the news today that the government will continue to propose a 10% interest rate cap — it had to stop, but it is still going on — as well as a ban on direct marketing, on which Mr Satonen has already tabled a bill. Let's hope they have a continuum now. And these are proposals that are also suitable for the government programme, and I am, at least, very much in favour of us being able to build elements that will enable those who have been in financial difficulties to survive without any quick levers and high interest rates. I therefore hope that, when the social welfare reform is carried out, the government programme's record of extending social credit to the whole country will come true. Now all we have to do is look after the government parties here, and let us also hope that the opposition will help to remind the government and the corresponding ministers that, when this social welfare reform is then carried forward in the welfare regions, it is already being taken into account that it is not fragmented, so to speak, that there could be one of its own in the various regions, but that it should go according to the government programme, so that it will cover the whole country. A study is being carried out and I would see that this issue of social credit is important. I personally trust that these credit information issues will now proceed. At least Minister Henriksson has said in this Chamber that, now that it has been torn out of the positive credit register, it is possible that, in the early part of the year, or certainly with the spring ear, we will be able to get a proposal here in the Chamber that there will be a more rapid withdrawal of default marking. And, of course, at least in my own initiative — and that of the other MPs involved — it left the month.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u166	Madam President! Mr Laakso's bill is a good and worthy initiative. It is really worrying that even young people are really over-indebtedness, and it is often then, at least, ruining their early life when they try to pay for them and their credit records go and there are many problems. Older people also fall into these loans, even high - interest loans. When you have unemployment or a small pension, then sometimes you have to take out a loan if you want something. All kinds of loans are being imposed on people all the time, both quick-leases and commodity-linked credits. It is thought that you buy a computer for hire, get that credit, and you will be sent without asking for a credit card at home, a credit card offered by the credit company. So the kid wonders what this is, now he's getting a loan again just like that, and he doesn't even have to ask for it when that credit card comes with that stuff. Now, especially as Christmas approaches, there are many layoffs and these, there are so many temptations to buy all sorts of things. Black Friday is now Black Week, extended all the time, comes with a huge amount of these temptations, sold on cheap terms, and many then succumb to buying a lot of these products on credit, and then that weekday might come up next year when you should start paying for these.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u167	Madam President! Representative Laakso's bill is really, really good and proper. I have often wondered about this same problem myself, that when these speed levers are taken, I might say, I dare say that the one taking the quick lever is often in an inoperable condition and does not know what he is actually doing in that situation. Such situations then lead to overwhelming situations in a person’s life when he loses his creditworthiness and then comes all the other troubles, and at worst it happens that the vip will then be inherited through the collection companies, and that’s the expensive thing to do. I have already discussed this matter with someone who has a great deal of legal knowledge that what kind of procedure could be taken here? After all, these debt cases are now taken through district courts, when they begin to collect them, they go through summarily, so that no one checks them when there is a long list, and one bludgeon, that's it. Then this debtor, even now a company, can be treated to the satisfaction of the debtor. Let's say the debtor is in a pathetic position when such a company is recovering claims taken a few years ago. He's completely helpless in that situation. This should go to the procedure that, when these matters are dealt with in a court of law, its creditor should prove all the debts he wants, and they should be clearly defined. Now they go through as summation, so that no one will ever be aware of them. There could be dozens of things on the same paper, and one jerk on the table, and that's it. We should get out of these. When such a significant legal act is taken, such as borrowing — Mr Laakso’s idea is quite right in this matter — those debts would be brought into a situation where people would be able to get rid of them. We should also have that moment of debt in order to ensure that it is fair to the borrower as well. Now it's not. Many times, as I said at the beginning, the borrower may be in such a condition that he does not understand what he is doing. In all other legal acts — when a person goes into business, buys a car or a rental contract for an apartment — the other party does ensure that the person signing the contract is in full swing and is able to do his or her job. But in this matter, unfortunately, that is not the case. I hope that progress will be made. Mr Myllykoski did well to initialise what the government is in the process of doing here. I hope that these things will move forward quickly and that this very difficult issue will be brought out of the way at once.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u168	Madam President! The initiative taken by Mr Laakso on interest rate caps on loans is very good and worthwhile and very sensible. The ceiling makes sense. And if you think about these other payments that you want to make if you don't get those loans and other bills done in time, they'll be huge, and they'll swell up like a snowball when they roll and roll, always bigger and bigger, and they'll get really big. You should see to it that when you get these loans paid — and if you get those notes to the point that you have lost your credit information — they do not follow you all the time, years ago. That once things have been fixed, paid up and in order for their lives, they must be removed — that when things are in order, a person can move on with his normal life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u169	Mr President! This is quite a long-term issue for some reason, we as a parliament will not be able to control this phenomenon, and Mr Laakso's bill is excellent. Yes, I have to say that although I myself am a representative of the Coalition Party, the capital in this case is totally wrong. Here are exactly two losers. The first, of course, is the one who takes these quick levers, and the second is the one that disappears in the sense that we do know that quite a few young people who then get into these difficulties will be excluded and, in the worst case, society will never be able to get a so-called worker out of him when there is no longer a chance. And so this bill is going to be huge, because these are constantly coming and these are going to be specific to it, as was well explained here, that we are going to try to buy enough of our own money, and this is a bad thing. There's also a huge legal gap in this case because... If I read about the MOT program here, the Old Debt Hunters: ‘At the same time, the debtor may be very difficult to find out. It is costly and uncertain to challenge the case.’ And when we know many times what kind of people they are — they have many difficulties, they are in court — they are at a disadvantage against these legally competent collection agencies. I have said it many times and I have written that if it were up to me to decide for myself and the Constitution would not stand in the way, then I would ban these quick-lease companies, because then we would be free of this particular loan shark. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that the capital is in the wrong place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u170	Madam President! The bill by Mr Laakso is indeed important and I would have liked to have signed it in the spring if I had only known that Mr Laakso was leaving it. But it is important that the corona has delayed these referrals to the bill and that this debate is being held now. Indeed, this is a long-term problem, as many representatives have said. I remember that when I was a parliamentary assistant about 10 years ago, it was my job to find out these interest rates for quick-leases — Mr Pihlajaniemi, an entrepreneur from South Ostrobothnia, was a representative of Parliament. Then I found out, and I also asked and tested how I could have gotten the quick levers myself. And it was shocking at the time, 10 years ago, how easy it was to get them with one phone call and text messages from anywhere. At the time, interest rates could have been, i.e. annual interest rates of more than 200 — even companies with annual interest rates of more than 300. It was then, more than ten years ago, that our young people, those entering the labour market and those students who were in need of money began to be exploited, and so the marketing and targeted advertising that they could then start to do was really fierce. And that is why it is also important, in addition to this ceiling on interest rates, that this legislative initiative by Mr Satose on this ban on direct marketing, which has been signed by more than a hundred representatives and which has been before Parliament for some time, should proceed now in this period. Although some clarifications were made during the last period, which came into force last year, and the government has now also made these interest ceilings for the interest rate, it is important that we get to the point where we really get this thing under control. – Mr President, is it two minutes or three minutes from his seat? [PresidentAnuVehvillainen : 3 minutes. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u173	Madam President! Representative Lehto raised a good point, which is a bad example: in other words, when you walk into a coffee shop, the merchant says, "Listen, put the money in a bag and take a card and life smiles." It is incomparably easy to market at that point, and then when it starts, there will be a limit of two thousand euros, possibly. After we've been through this quick-leases, there's so much inventiveness on the side that it's good to keep up. What really matters now is that these issues are being discussed extensively, and it is gratifying to hear and see action taken on the responsibility of the representatives of the people of the United States that capital is now in the wrong jobs, and Mr Satonen has been very involved in the efforts to deal with the affairs of these over-debtors and to break the cycle of debt. It is hoped that a person will be able to get there more quickly so that these inheritances will be cut off, but then, even after the District Court decision, recovery will be resumed. There must be an absolute solution to this, that the creditor must have responsibility for the debt he has given. Of course, a decent interest rate should be given to the person who is borrowing every capital, but the fact that after that the case begins to swell, which takes people away from exclusion is wrong, and that is where we have quite a lot of work to do in the legislation. And these aren't just here. Even now, in the business world, we have situations where a big entrepreneur announces that 90 days from now an account will come in, and when that smaller entrepreneur is in that subordinate position, he will find himself in such a situation that he will then have to pay for his products when there the company that has sold these products, what this contractor has done for a big company, puts a trata in the magazine: a week, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u174	Madam President! Thank you all for supporting my initiative. Indeed, last night I happened to wait for his wife to help — he did other things — when a program came out of the TV for gambling debtors. There were two main characters in it, and one of them had played quite a lot of bills for himself, and then, indeed, with a quickie, he had continued to do the job, and that was where the bun dough was born. Another main character — unfortunately, there was a widow with a gambling problem — reported that the money had gone wild and then the man was no longer able to live with it and then made his own decision. These are indeed, as Mr Eestilä said, the big bills that society has to pay for these games, that it goes without saying that we still have a large construction site to make these things good. Indeed, Mrs Myllykoski took a very good example of the fact that big companies put it on the bill for 90 days net and small companies then receive the goods for a maximum of 14 days net. It's actually even used to recontract contracts to get money earlier. The big company says we can pay you a little faster for this when you drop 10 percent of your contract, and what else can that guy in the SME sector do because it's either that or possibly his own house under the hammer. These are the things we should really be able to do and solve in such a society. I'm sure we'll have a lot of work to do here tomorrow. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u175	Mr President! This is an important topic for everyone, and I am simply saying that we have a lot of people who are addicted to gambling, and that is a serious matter. Is it a disease or a learned habit, or what is it? In any case, it is a very awkward situation, and these people really need help and encouragement and therapy. You can get out of it, but it requires a good network and support from people, and unfortunately this is not the case for many young people. That is why these quick buys and living over the money are a very dangerous phenomenon, and this consumption society of ours creates advertising and other needs, and if a person wants to fulfill his dreams, then it is easy to grasp through these credits, which are too easy to obtain. Of course, there are medicines for this, but it is obviously quite difficult legally to put them into law. I immediately think of the Trinity: of course, this ceiling of interest, and then there is the ban on advertising, but perhaps some kind of declaration of personal bankruptcy would also support this. No one's gonna lend it to someone who's got a lot of doubts about whether it's gonna pay back. I do not know how this personal bankruptcy can be carried out, when one day it will only happen that the recovery of their claims will end there. Apparently, it's legally impossible because they don't do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u176	Mr President! Representative Myllykoski also understands business and drew attention to an important issue. Indeed, many large companies will not pay their bills until 90 days or 120 days from now, and this will in particular put small companies in a very difficult position and in a situation where they are already in a position of subcontractor status, for example. For example, the maximum payment periods for business-to-business transactions should be tightened for 30 days. I would also like to raise another problem relating to Mr Laakso's initiative, namely that there is no definition of the upper or lower limit for reasonable recovery costs, that is, even if the interest rate is high, these costs may be even higher, and that is one of the things that should definitely be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u177	Madam President! I was saying in my previous speech — but when I forgot — that this is exactly the way it is, but fortunately, if it is fair, it helps the person in need and writes on the plaid paper that ‘I do not accept excessive recovery costs’ and it is clear. But those people are already so exhausted, so powerless that there are no drinks, and in that sense there should be a method that we should really be looking at these excessive collection costs on the basis of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u178	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u179	Mr President! It's a very festive day. In this bill, signed by 22 MPs, we have proposed that distance learning should be recorded permanently in the Basic Education Act. I would already like to thank all those who have signed this bill, all those who are debating in this Chamber and all those who have helped to make this initiative possible. It seems valuable to be able to discuss this possibility of distance learning today. The education system must be frost-resistant. This bill is one move to enable more flexible and controlled comprehensive school education. In the spring, the corona pandemic moved the primary schools and their pupils to remote education. The situation was new in primary schools, as the Basic Education Act does not record the possibility of distance learning at all, even in an exceptional situation. But as the spring passed, good experiences came to the surface. Many schools and, for example, the Autism Union and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities brought success to the public. One student was embarrassed to whisper that there was always hope for studying difficult mathematics when distance learning had the opportunity to receive additional support through a separate channel without the attention of other students. A more individual education or the opportunity to choose your own way and environment helped many students. There was a new angle of entry for the studies. At the same time, the situation was also stressful, as distance education was moved overnight and there were no common rules of the game. The challenges of distance learning also became visible from the point of view of student care, for example, and we read studies about them almost daily. It is important for us to have this knowledge and know-how collected in exceptional times and to prepare for the future. Since spring it has been clear that the classroom is not the best learning environment for all children in all situations. It is time to register distance education in the Basic Education Act as a permanent alternative and increase support for digital education. Mr President! Primary education relies on the principle of local education, and it is good to continue to do so. However, it should be possible to rely on distance education when it is the best solution for learning, well-being and the smooth running of schooling. Because of the corona pandemic, we have approved in Parliament the necessary amendment to the Basic Education Act in respect of distance education, but it is only temporary. This bill promotes a permanent change in the law that would bring flexibility to primary schools, both in corona situations and in other demanding situations. On the basis of the Act, the basic education law would be updated on the basis of the criteria for organising distance learning, and the use of distance education in support education and situations requiring different teaching arrangements would be clearly defined. This would remove uncertainty. In addition, the Basic Education Act should be supplemented by a new article which can be introduced in exceptional circumstances, such as in the middle of this corona. Mr President! The current Basic Education Act provides for the possibility of distance education only for basic education for non-students. In other words, education can now only be applied outside the special laws in the basic education of adults. However, distance learning has already been applied locally in basic education so far, indicating that reality is also driving the law past at the moment. A change of law would be necessary in order to formally regulate distance learning together with another education provider and thus clarify the rights of the child to distance education. On the basis of the Act, the basic education law would be updated on the basis of the grounds for organising distance learning. It is proposed that the Basic Education Act be amended so that Article 6 of the Basic Education Act: A new Article 3 would be added to provide the organiser of basic education with the right to organise part of the education provided for in the Basic Education Act by means of distance connections. By way of derogation from the current guidelines, the bill proposes that a staff member in accordance with the Regulation on the Qualifications of the Education Department be present at the same place as the pupil or teaching group. At the moment, the curriculum for basic education determines that a teacher responsible for safety and well-being should be present in the teaching group for distance learning. In the future, the teacher must be present in the space or at a distance, but not in both, and this is because distance learning is also possible. On the basis of the Act, the basic education law would also be updated on the basis of the criteria for using distance learning in support education. It is proposed to amend the Basic Education Act so that the possibility of distance education in support education is recorded in the Act by amending Article 16(2) of the Basic Education Act. In order to ensure the equality of pupils, the Basic Education Act should be specified when and how distance learning can be used. In this context, account should be taken in particular of the fact that the organiser of education cannot determine the place where the student’s home is to be organised without the consent of the guardians. Remote education cannot become a means of saving municipalities, but always on the child’s terms. The bill also takes into account single-parent situations where distance learning can be provided to both addresses. In fact, just today a final report on the Children’s shift housing and social security research project commissioned by the Government was published, which revealed that children’s shift housing is limited, among other things, by obstacles to schooling. Remote education can also be useful in these situations. Mr President! - Do you have 10 minutes? [The President : Yeson! ] And then this time of the corona. The bill proposes that a new Article 18a be added to the Basic Education Act, which can be applied in such situations as we encountered in the spring that, as a result of the infectious disease situation, schools were moved to remote education. Before the introduction of distance learning, consideration should be given to pupils who are unable to study safely in distance education or who do not have access to remote connections for their age or conditions. Local education should always be provided for these students. Madam Speaker! The role of local education, especially in learning social skills and emotional skills, cannot be overemphasized. However, the development of distance learning is a great opportunity for areas such as sparsely populated areas, the need for learning support and specialities. Distance learning is an opportunity for freedom of choice for subjects whose teaching groups are not created throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u180	Madam President! Thank you to Mr Kemp for this excellent bill. This opens up a debate on a very important subject, and I would have liked to have seen more representatives here as well. In my own initiative, I have proposed that distance learning should continue for children who clearly benefit from it and whose learning outcomes have improved as they study at home at their own pace. Distance learning would be suitable even in normal circumstances for those with sensory hypersensitivity, those with neurosurgeon diagnosis, those with indoor air symptoms, those with school anxiety, those with long school trips in rural areas, and those who are being bullied. Today’s young people are prodigious children of technology, who have a natural part of the social environment on the web, and are not shunned. Mr President! I would like to call for the establishment of a national distance school and, for example, for the establishment of criteria which, if met and only if the child’s best interests were realised, would allow the child to study at a distance. Distance learning could be a part-time solution in order to ensure that social skills are practiced regularly in local education as well. Remote education would also make it possible for a child to have a day-to-day system between parents, as one of the parents now acts as a remote parent and sees the child mainly on weekends or only on some weekends. Exceptional distance learning arrangements would therefore provide flexibility for divorced parents. Moreover, it would definitely be the child’s interest. It is true, however, that special arrangements, for example for health reasons, already exist for individual arrangements and distance learning, without any change in the law. These options and solutions should be discussed in greater depth. There's pros and cons. Remote connections could already be used under the current law to provide, for example, education in optional languages or specific individual arrangements. The Teachers' Trade Union has been arguing for this kind of exploitation for years. However, these opportunities are hardly being used. Perhaps the State should encourage expansion by allocating development funding to it. This could be one possibility before the actual amendment of the Basic Education Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u181	Madam Speaker! In Varsinais-Suomi, there is already 30 years of experience in distance education in archipelagos such as Parainen Utö and Houtskär and Naantali Velkua. For example, in languages beginning in the fifth grade, education has been given at a distance for the first time since 1995. Distance learning in the archipelago of schoolchildren also secures the time of the week, i.e. it is made up of a slightly different need and perspective from what we have been paying attention to here today, the corona pandemic. Remote education also gives pupils more choice, as very small schools may not offer very extensive education. This is highlighted in languages, so that the teaching groups of larger localities can be used to make it possible to offer more diverse courses. This has been very important, especially in the archipelagos. From this point of view and on behalf of the people of the archipelago, I support the legislative initiative that has been taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u182	Mr President! I have to thank Mr Kemp for this bill. It is very fresh and very timely, and Mrs Kemppi said very well that the school system must be frostproof — it has some pretty symbolism that I appreciate. It is indeed the case at the moment that the Basic Education Act does not contain provisions on distance learning. According to the Basic Education Act, basic education of the compulsory education population is organised as local education. The purpose of this bill is to respond to this deficiency and to clarify the rules and responsibilities of distance learning. Up to now, distance learning has been organised with the permission of the Finnish National Board of Education. It has, of course, enabled us to complement education and offer a wide range of study opportunities for different subjects, including in smaller and remote schools. However, I believe that it has been a somewhat rigid system. Unfortunately, the current corona epidemic may continue for a long time, and similar epidemics may also occur again. There is a real need to prepare for the rapid increase in the need for distance learning in legislation. Mr President! During the exceptional circumstances of last spring, we received valuable information and experience on distance education at home. Experience, as has been mentioned here, was also positive in many respects, but of course there were also problems, and they may have accumulated for certain types of students. Municipalities as providers of basic education and schools are best acquainted with the situation of pupils. The bill suggests that student studies can therefore be arranged in part differently, if justified, for reasons such as the student’s health status or other reasons related to the student’s progress in studies. In the event of infectious disease, the teacher could temporarily order teachers to provide distance teaching and temporarily turn into a place of education that is safe, for example, most often the student’s home. President! This year has really shown us that distance learning can be the best option for long periods of time and even in difficult pandemic situations and similar situations. I also think that we should be prepared for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u183	Mr President! This bill is very important and worthy of support. In fact, before Mr Kemppi had the opportunity to take this initiative, we asked with a written question a few colleagues how it would be if the ministers could see this as a permanent opportunity for distance learning. Unfortunately, as well as perhaps this spring, when we heard about the ministry, it was not very welcomed, but I hope that when Mr Kemppi and Kivisaari here are in favour and you represent the government parties, you will try to promote this. I believe that, as was pointed out here in the speech of the Finns, in so many remote areas, in sparsely populated areas, even if it is important in the archipelago, even for the equality of pupils, that choices should also be made when, for example, upper secondary schools are studied a little better and could be made possible by remote communication, even in the rarer languages, for example. Of course, I also understand the concerns about this. In other words, the fear is that if distance learning is brought as a permanent opportunity, it would be used as a means of saving in the municipalities, and it is of course neither desirable nor desirable, but in order to increase the opportunities for choice, I believe that there would be many benefits. When the corona has brought us so much evil and suffering and misery, it could also bring us something good — and I believe that now that we have made great strides in digital education, distance learning, those lessons could also be used in the years to come, so that distance learning, with certain limitations, can also be made possible under normal conditions. I therefore hope that this initiative will move forward and I warmly support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u184	Madam President! Mr Kemp's initiative is very good and important. This is what we need. When we at universities of applied sciences describe the hours and they are streamed out if necessary, you can have distance lectures at an open university — and I thought later — so why not have it recorded in a normal basic education, and if you were at a distance, you could look at it? And best of all, if something went by, you could watch the recording again and review it by yourself at home. Similarly — as has happened here — if you need a tutoring, then you do not necessarily have to tell your friends that you have to stay in support education, but then you get that tutoring in secret at home from the teacher, and that bullying away from school. It would also be easier for the teacher to give the support education when it suits him, and the student does not have to wait at the school because it can be at home when it is done. And it may involve parents who would then help the one receiving tutoring can help his child with it. Mr Koponen told us about this national distance school, which is very important with him. We know that we have so many indoor-air-diseased young people and children who are unable to attend certain schools, and if there is no alternative to which other school to go to, then now has been the only chance that the guardian has taken on home-schooling and, in practice, on his own responsibility and with his own resources. This would also enable young people with indoor air problems to be included in education and study at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u185	Madam President! I have listened with great interest to this debate and I would also like to thank Mr Kemp for this important initiative. Unfortunately, the initiative does not contain more than 100 signatures that are normally required for committee reading, but nevertheless I very much hope that this issue will proceed, and, unfortunately, Mr Koponen has also pointed it out, there are no more people in the Chamber to discuss, but it is important. Mr Multala also made a very good speech on this subject. Perhaps the corona has taught us all that basic education must be secured in all situations by all possible means. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u186	Madam President! Representative Lehto described the digital leap of universities, from which you can learn a lot. This has already been achieved at a secondary level and a lot of good practices have been found, for example, to help students who need support. Thank you, Mr Koponen, for your rich speech. It is true that in the present situation, the National Board of Education can authorise distance education, for example, when a child is ill. The representative Junnila, on the other hand, described the current state in the archipelago, where distance learning is already common sense in the current situation. However, there are no uniform practices for this, which creates a situation where one child is entitled to distance education and the other child is not, even if it is the right solution for his best. Although the curriculum for basic education contains records of distance learning, it currently lacks a legal basis. And, of course, it also challenges teachers when remote pedagogy is not taught in such a way that it is progressing in common practice and is also clear from the teacher's point of view. The treatment of children should be equal without exception and I therefore feel that it is necessary to update the basic education law on distance learning. And then why this initiative does not bring back more representatives of the people: yes, this is a big change, a change that is also time-bound and requires a little new thinking. However, I feel that it is time to discuss that distance learning could become a new flexible way of learning for those children for whom it is the best solution for learning — perhaps this distance learning platform needs to move forward in the 2020s. And perhaps this nine-page bill describes the fact that it is not just a single sentence or two words that can be resolved, but requires a little more income, taking into account, for example, liability issues and the fact that distance learning is not used as a means of saving.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u187	President! I would also like to point out that, of course, there are many benefits of human life, socialism and emotional training and this approach to man, but I think that the point here is that this is an agile distance learning opportunity, as Mr Kemppi said, when the best interests of the child demand and support it. It is not, therefore, a conflict between ‘distance education or close-up education’, however,that there is an extension of the possibilities of childnedunandrights. We have different learners, as we all know here, and different teaching methods are already today, and this is one such extension and the opportunity to act in the interests of modern society, as it were. In this speech by Mr Kemp, it was also valuable that he mentioned this possibility of distance teaching, and I believe that it will also enable this element of support education to be used more in primary schools, for example, when this is the way it would be possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u188	We will have spent half an hour on this, but there is room for Mr Myllykoski to speak if that is from the point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u189	Thank you, Madam President, for this opportunity. For myself, dyslexic and struggling with learning difficulties, the thing that was raised there was the possibility of teaching support. Of course I have to say that for such learners it is much easier and better to teach, but it is an element which I too here drove to speak and use this speech. We have now lived through this period of interest rates, and we have seen that something is needed, some instruments must be available. I think it is a good idea to finish the debate where steps are taken to make it possible. E-learning is already in use in primary schools today, that is to say, this can extend the opportunities for teaching, and this will allow the French lessons to be considered better and more easily. Unfortunately, in this society we are still in the process of this disintegration of village schools, this may be one solution in the field of school transport. That, too, fits well. I thank you for your efforts and a good debate, and we will try to meet together sometime.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u190	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u191	Madam President! It's a week for informal care. My bill, which is now under discussion, concerns support for informal care and its tax-exemption. Support for informal care will save municipalities at least EUR 1.3 billion a year. Therefore, the remuneration of family carers who work hard and valuable care should be made tax-free. That would be a small concession to informal care. The final report of the National Working Group on the Development of Family Care carried out in 2014 assessed the estimated value of nursing work carried out with the support of informal care at the level of 2013: ‘The estimated value of nursing work carried out with the support of self-care is estimated at around 1.7 billion euro per year. “ 1.7 billion. ‘The current estimated cost of care fees and Support for informal care is therefore estimated to be EUR 1.3 billion cheaper than other forms of care.’ In 2013, there were about 40,000 people receiving informal care support. On average, each carer saved EUR 31250 compared to the one who had been treated in municipal institutional care, service housing or enhanced service housing. In 2020, the number of beneficiaries of informal care is estimated to be around 50,000. There are no more recent calculations available, but the estimates for 2013 relative to the number of people receiving this year’s informal care support can be estimated at the cost of informal care compared to municipal care. Based on this, the cost of informal care would be EUR 2.13 billion a year if the family care provider had been in municipal institutional care, service housing or enhanced service housing. According to Statistics Finland, in 2018, the fees for municipal informal care totalled EUR 226 million. In addition to commissions, municipalities receive expenses for services provided to persons in charge of care, free and support services for family care. The management fees for the support for informal care in 2020 are EUR 408.09 per month and the care fee paid during the transition period is at least EUR 816.18 per month. In-house care is taxable income and is taxed as earned income — i.e. taxed as earned income. According to the Sotkanet statistical database, 58 per cent of recipients of informal care support are aged 65 or over. This has an impact on the average marginal tax rate of the beneficiary group to assess the tax impact of the aid. Based on the calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service, the marginal tax rate for the number of beneficiaries in 2013 was around 29,5 %. Since 2013, there have been changes in earnings taxation, but the change in marginal tax rates for the average pension or salary has been limited. Through the parliamentary information service, it has become apparent that the cost of tax exemption for informal care support would be around EUR 65 million. If there were no family care, it was estimated that 50000 people in 2020 would be treated in institutional care, service housing or enhanced service housing, EUR 2.13 billion would have to be added to the cost of building new care facilities, new buildings — 50,000 people needed care facilities — and staff costs and perhaps training staff. These changes are possible and are to a large extent value selection issues. However, this tax exemption would not be such a big thing for society, but with a little more than 400 euros in family care for a 24-hour carer, it is of enormous importance. Of course, family carers are appreciated in the speeches of this hall too, but they do not warm up the pensioners who are trying to cope with their own problems and who are also caring for their memory - stricken mates. It is unfortunate to count on the fact that in these matters of informal care they manage theirs with no matter how small the money or with any kind of support or appreciation. That is why I propose that Parliament approve my bill, which makes the care allowance for informal care exempt from tax. I would like to thank all the carers who are doing an enormous amount of important work. And yes, we in Finland would need even more investment in informal care. In my opinion, we could use a family-care councilman here. Finland would need one. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u192	Madam President! Thank you for your initiative. Yesterday, when I listened to this discussion about the same subject in my office, it is always startling to hear about the millions and millions of things this informal care system is costing society savings in terms of care services. I have already taken the floor to express my thanks for every initiative and every proposal made in Parliament on behalf of carers. They have been put into effort, and it is the right way to approach the matter so that, when we have relatives who provide care for the loved ones, their work must be respected and made possible by all those who care for the loved ones, those vacations so that they can be able to cope at the same level as there should be various support services. If I remember correctly, the representative spoke here yesterday about the fact that, if you do not take these holidays, you could have clean-up services or some others. However, someone made such a speech, and I think it is a great idea to bring home that support, not necessarily in such a way that this family member is then taken to the institution for the time being, but that it may be such a meeting of three people, with this so-called third pair of hands, that is, the second pair of hands, at this stage of course, to help the family carer to cope with it and thus to promote even more opportunities, mainly for the elderly to live in the home, but also for others who are in the family care sector. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u193	Madam President! Representative Reijosen's bill is good and necessary for the payment of the allowance for informal care to be tax-free, and it often affects the taxation of the normal income of its carer and eats through it. You do a valuable job, and then you get punished for it. If you receive a pension if you care for your spouse and receive support for informal care, it will be punished so that more is taken out of that pension. Everyone knows what would happen if 40,000 family caregivers moved to municipal institutional care or service housing or enhanced service housing. That would be a lot of municipalities with a lot of problems to deal with. It would be very expensive for society. In this way we save very much, and the neighbor in it often cares for his fellowman, it is usually done out of love, some do it out of obligation. That work is really hard mentally and physically and often binds 24/7. I personally have been following the work of a few different family carers for over a decade, and I know that it really takes time and effort. Then you have to remember, even during the corona period, that often the person you care for belongs to a risk group, and then this nurse too will have to be in a lot of quarantine on her own, so that she does not infect the person you care for, which means that it also binds her through it. This bill is very important and should be brought forward as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u194	Mr President! Improving the status of carers is a worthy and very timely issue. It was important during the last parliamentary term and long before. The Finns of Peru have been arguably pushing for improvement already over several parliamentary periods, and I too warmly support the initiative taken by Mr Reijos. For too long, municipalities and cities have been faced with a situation in which, despite the great need, the care facilities of our senior population have been reduced or left completely unestablished because the financial situation has not allowed them to do so. And that is not all, the same applies equally to people with mental disabilities, mental health patients and others whose condition requires care, care and help. Responsibility for care lies primarily with society in the welfare state. If, due to the poor financial situation in the municipalities, the responsibility for care is transferred to the family, it is only right and reasonable that this valuable work should at least be paid decent compensation. It was said that it can only be fixed by clicking on fingers. This may not have been the case at the end of the day, but could we now, together, snap fingers to advance this issue while giving the family carers a Christmas gift to cheer up the distance Christmas? Family carers deserve more appreciation, understanding and support. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not just set up a working group and organise a seminar, but simply snap fingers and put it in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u195	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Reijos, for this necessary initiative. Family carers are part of the backbone of Finnish society, and this bill is therefore a welcome contribution to the hard workload of family carers. We all know that family carers bring and have brought the savings of billions of euros to Finnish society in previous years. In the past, those who care for their family have also paid their taxes on their work in this country. Now family carers need a fair policy to make their daily lives easier. I warmly support Mr Reijosen's bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u196	Mr President! The Finns have long wanted to improve the position of family carers, as we have told you in our alternative budgets, for example. This initiative by Mr Reijos to turn informal care support into tax-free income is a logical continuation of our work. As the population ages, there is an increasing need for different care facilities, but the increase in institutional care places is difficult and slow, and institutional care is not always the best form of care. Home and family care should be developed so that an elderly person can live at home for as long as possible. However, informal care can be very demanding and hard work for family members mentally and physically. That is why we legislators must support and encourage family carers in their important role. Mr President! From the point of view of care, informal care is usually an excellent option, but for a family carer who is close to him or her and who has often reached retirement age, it can mean difficulties in obtaining other incomes. The financial support received by carers is often very small, especially in view of the pregnancy to be performed, and the proportion left behind is even lower. As has already been pointed out in this debate, in addition to economic considerations and taking economic considerations into account, it is necessary, for example, to increase support services and recreational opportunities for carers. It is in the interests of society, both economically and humanly, to maintain the ability of citizens to act as family carers for their loved ones and to improve the conditions for family care. It is estimated that there are at least 350,000 informal care situations in Finland, of which 60,000 are binding or demanding, and according to Kela's research, among other things, a billion-dollar saving in service expenditure through informal care would be economically sustainable to pay support to more persons caring for their relatives. Support for informal care as a whole is a very minimal compensation for important work, and I do not think that making it duty-free would be an unreasonable requirement in any way. Mr President! On the basis, among other things, of the above-mentioned arguments, Mr Reijosen's bill is very much to be welcomed. We hope that it will receive a positive response in committee and, at least on the basis of the debate in the Chamber, it is important for Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u197	Madam President! I would like to extend warm thanks to all those who speak on behalf of family care in this Chamber. I do not really know any profession that would save society as much money as family carers actually do, and Finland would not really survive if we did not have family carers. Of course, this inequality in municipalities also speaks because different municipalities have different systems and family carers and family carers are in a different position there. If there are two family members in the same condition, it can be valued differently in different municipalities, and I think it is a little wrong. It should be balanced at national level and therefore national criteria would be needed — unfortunately, they do not yet exist. But we should not forget these carers. You need to do a lot of work for them, a lot of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u198	Madam President! Mr Reijosen's bill is very welcome. In Finland, a large proportion of family carers who care for their loved ones are working people. It would therefore be important for the coordination of informal care and work to be carried out through a wide range of means and legislative solutions and also to take steps to improve matters rather than just recording. As a result of the Koronapandemia, family carers also have great concerns and uncertainty about future developments due to the growing difficulties in the local government finances. And as Mrs Myllykoski here well said, it will stop every time you hear the amounts that family carers save on state funds. I wish it was time to do things for family carers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u199	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. Procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u200	Mr President! Since the Koronavirus spread to Finland, many restrictions and recommendations have reduced people’s movement and business activities. I took this bill in the spring when we were wearing the so-called lockdown, or almost all the places were closed and people stayed at home, but now this initiative is even more topical. Many sectors, in particular the restaurant sector and the small brewery sector, which rely heavily on its sales channel, quickly experienced serious economic difficulties in the spring. Restaurants were ordered by law to be closed to customers as of 3.4. As restaurants have opened up their customer capacity and opening hours, there are plenty of restrictions. The latest restrictions that entered into force at the beginning of November have further tightened the scope for these companies to operate. Restaurants are able to adapt to some extent with take-away sales and delivery. However, domestic deliveries are not possible for alcoholic beverages, and even the right to leave does not in practice apply at all to wines that are important to many restaurants, for example. In the labour-intensive restaurant sector, the suppression of customer flows is a huge blow. In the spring, 82 per cent of enterprises in the tourism and restaurant sector reported that their turnover was at least half as much as 75–90 per cent lower than in the normal period. With spring and summer, more and more restaurant operators have had to put a note on the hatch. The restrictions that have now come into force will shorten the Christmas season, which has traditionally been sold by many restaurants over the quiet early winter. In the worst scenarios, months of restrictions predict a wave of bankruptcy for the next spring. In the spring, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered it necessary for the law to provide both for a reasonable compensation for the losses caused by the closure of restaurants and for mitigating the effects on traders. The government support package of EUR 123 million was brought in to compensate for the loss of restaurants, but it has not made the situation of restaurants much easier, especially in the course of the autumn and as restrictions continue. At present, an impact mitigation mechanism could be, for example, a temporary facilitation of restrictions on business directly. The wider possibility for restaurants and breweries to sell their products directly to consumers would provide additional conditions through their own actions to help overcome the crisis. Mr President! This bill provides for the temporary addition of a new Article 17a to the Alcohol Act. in such a way that the right to the sale of alcoholic beverages is automatically conferred on all persons who have either a production or a liquor licence, as long as the Office for the Authorisation and Control of the Social and Health Care Sector is informed of the start of the sale. At the same time, the strength limit for products sold out will be increased to 16%. The right to exit will also be extended to e-commerce and allow for delivery at home. The age limit control is the responsibility of the person who supplies the drinks to the consumer — the operator himself or a third party. The amendments would be valid until 30 April 2021. Mr President! In addition to financial support for restaurant companies, measures must be taken to promote the possibility of profitable business for restaurants during the rest of the year and the coming spring. The right to sell out would be a cost-effective way to help restaurants cope with tough months. Allowing restaurants to raise more income instead of driving them into lay-offs, lay-offs or, at worst, bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u201	Madam President! There is no such thing as my name on this good initiative. Myllykoski was not yet in such a liberal state in the spring that he would have put his name on it. But at the same time, when I myself made the remote sales initiative for small breweries, now that I was thinking about that, we have been very close. At the time, I thought about this increase in the percentage of alcohol, that the percentage would not be much higher than that of the craftsmen's beers, although I have to say that I did not take the initiative to say that it is 12% in these crafts beers. I didn't want to distract anyone with it, but I didn't think it was worth mentioning in that moment. Furthermore, it seems that we are now forced to discuss, in the form of these initiatives, the measures that we can use to help and keep alive the restaurants that are in distress because of the corona. Those restrictive measures have been necessary. We know that we have had to do something. After that, we can then assess whether they were properly dimensioned. But we are in a situation where the online store has arrived. I don't think so. Finland can no longer ban European operators from importing alcoholic beverages here. As I have said, I intend to do this again. But now, as a member of the Alko Board of Directors, I would like to challenge the executives first of all to take the matter in hand, so that they and the industry would raise this issue and consider who is in charge of alcohol policy. Is Alko an operator who serves and supervises the funding of people with substance abuse problems, or is it so that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health exclusively manages this whole thing and the rest of Europe drives us by train and we are on our way with the resin? I would like to thank Mr Multala for this initiative and for making me think again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u202	Madam President! I too would like to thank Mr Multala for this bill. Now the new corona news is getting the restaurants on their toes, especially their customers who are afraid to go there, and yet now we are talking about the toughest sales times of the year, even when Christmas time is at hand, and everything is not sold. Korona has taken customers, and since last summer the restaurants have been able to answer it so that they have started selling more out, especially food rations. But when they are sold there are the transportation and brokerage companies of these meals, which take between them, and then they eat from the margins of the restaurant when the broker takes a pretty heavy slice when they are transported from there. If they were able to sell these mild alcoholic beverages, they would, however, bring additional income to those companies. And a lot of people want you to order a meal there, so you can have some wine with food, whatever you want to have with it. Not everyone buys a bottle of wine at home, that it is always there, and they are not prepared for it. And everyone knows that problem drinkers would not order alcohol from restaurants because of their high price. They buy it in much cheaper places, Alko and abroad. You would think that such a temporary law would go through a bit of the southern European model. When we heard here today in the cannabis debate that government parties would like to follow the southern European model, why not follow what would be much more reasonable?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u203	Mr President! Like other businesses, the brewing industry has also been damaged by corona virus. In the spring, restrictions on restaurant activities have been a major blow to small breweries in particular, whose main single sales channel is the restaurant. Now we are living again in times of uncertainty. Are we gonna come back to the restaurants and shut down again? I hope not. Since the legislation in force does not allow distance sales of alcohol to the consumer, the drop in restaurant orders means the depletion of almost the entire flow of income. The competition for supermarket shelves is fierce, and many special beer styles are above the 5.5% threshold, and sales are only possible in a long-term market where it is even more difficult to get its products for sale. Even the Pirkka sign is beginning to show, which in itself is its own debate, to what extent this debate is once again linked to these large players. Of course, there is a hole in the distance selling alcohol that favours a foreign pig. It is perfectly possible to order alcohol from another EU country, and the courier company brings special beer, wines and others directly to the door. It is a tragedy that a brewery in Tampere has an online shop that sells beer to consumers because it is located in Estonia. Domestic beer is transported by ship to Estonia, transported by ship from there, and the courier takes the products to the consumer's home door in full legal form. There's no sense in this from a domestic point of view. This is a problem that needs to be corrected, but first we need to give first aid, and that is why I support the initiative that has been taken. However, alcohol law in civilised countries comes to Finland, as it is in all other EU Member States, and neither Alko nor any other monopoly can prevent it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u204	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Multala, for this bill that is to be welcomed. At the same time, coronavirus pandemic is a strong demand shock, reducing demand for services, especially tourism, but also the use of restaurant and entertainment services. It has increased uncertainty and weakened the economic confidence of businesses and households. The spread of the pandemic must be contained and human health protected. However, restrictive decisions have dramatic and long-term consequences for the restaurant industry and its employment. The Central Chamber of Commerce has come up with a good proposal for a VAT reduction, and MaRakin has proposed a 10% reduction in the value added tax on restaurant food and drinks for a year. I feel that this initiative, which is now under discussion, to extend the right of way temporarily could also be a possible way of making things easier for the restaurant entrepreneur. Of course, when a change is made, the seller should normally ensure that alcoholic beverages are not handed over to minors or intoxicated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u205	Mr President! This issue was discussed here in the spring, not in the form of a legislative initiative, but otherwise. At the time, the main government party, the SDP, said that there was a problem with the amendment of the law, as it would take time and not have time to help with the distress of restaurants, even though the majority of the government parties also support this bill, as well as the remote and out-of-store initiative of the small breweries of Mrs Myllykoski. However, I personally believe that this explanation is limping, especially since the situation is getting longer and, in many respects, the situation is even worse than in the spring. This permission to sell out is legally easy and quickly to do if we only have a clear will, and that is why it is only a political solution that we do not want to promote this easiest possible way of supporting the sector. However, I would like to thank the Members who have already supported this initiative here, and I hope that Mrs Myllykoski will put her energy into the fact that we can now really promote these measures, which have been presented here today in addition to this initiative, such as the right to distance and out sales of small breweries and craft breweries. It is indeed a question of bringing the Finnish players on the same footing with the foreign people, and I fully agree with Mrs Myllykoski that I do not believe that we are in a position to ban this distance sales anymore. It is a very strange situation, as has been pointed out here, that a box of wine can be ordered from France, for example, to the front door, but it cannot be bought at a Finnish restaurant either at home or even at all. I therefore hope that the government will take seriously this and Mrs Myllykoski's legislative initiative, as well as Mr Kauma's legislative initiative on the calculation of VAT. Without direct support, we could use such means to support the sector and help it overcome this difficult situation. Perhaps to the end, Mr President, in general, that in this situation we have the strong back of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that this loss should also be compensated for in a sector which has been significantly restricted by legislation which has limited its livelihood. However, we are faced with a situation where the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health strongly recommends that private operators, such as indoor playgrounds or sports centres, close their doors, but there are currently no means of closing them on the basis of legislation. Nor can it be considered that they are entitled to compensation, even though they are, as it were, reasonably forced to close their doors. This is going to be a problem for us, and I hope that the government will also be prepared to react to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u206	Mr President! Unavoidably, as a Member of Parliament, you sometimes get the impression that opposition is fundamental, because there is no clear reason for liberalising, for example, in this case, what is represented by Multala's excellent legislative initiative on the temporary amendment of the law. After all, it is quite extraordinary if we have to strive for equality, especially within the EU, so that business is of equal value in every country, because indeed any representative of Parliament can order a large shipment of any wine, beer or other and, in a way, from a Finnish journalist from abroad. And if this is combined with a slightly broader picture, then I have the impression that whatever the ministry is doing or anyone is doing to regulate alcohol consumption, it does not really matter, and Parliament's decision does not make much difference because alcohol consumption is linked to culture and goes in some direction, as it is now going — it can really be said that drugs may have taken over, as it appears from consumption. But these are completely harmless, and when we help the industry, which takes the biggest hit when customers disappear, and when, according to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we should compensate the industry for the losses, because the bans come from Parliament, then I do not understand why such fundamental opposition is being made. And I personally see the same as many other speakers that it is only a matter of time before such monopolies are dismantled, whether it be the Alko or the pharmacy or whatever, so that it should be speeded up by a small amount and, in the interest rate period, understand what the business is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u207	Mr President! At the end of that, I would like to say that this bill would be a temporary change. Why? I thought it would have such a better chance of going through, because the counterargument that is often put forward here is that, when access to alcohol is increased, the disadvantages would also increase. Well, this way it would be possible now that restaurant activities are limited, to try out what would happen. Personally, I do not believe that buying a bottle of wine from a restaurant with a meal that you want would actually increase demand or total consumption, because often the price of alcohol sold from a restaurant — and the restaurant may have imported or purchased it directly from abroad — is in practice much higher than the price of wine acquired through our monopoly, for example, through the Alko. It is therefore a question of paying for that service and, on the other hand, a large part of the restaurant coverage often comes from selling alcohol or even beverages. In this case, it would be possible for this temporary change of law to test how Finns can — and I believe Finns can — act, as is currently the case in many other civilised countries. Some countries, such as Australia, have even gone so far as to have restaurants that do not necessarily have the right to drink, but there you can take the bottle with you, that is, buy the bottle of wine and take it and drink it at the restaurant. Of course, there is a bit of a different idea in Finland, and in a country like this, where labour costs are also very high, such a model will certainly continue to hold back. But what I really wanted to say here is that this is a temporary, temporary change and the intention is precisely to try this now in the corona period and to help the restaurants over this worst period. Of course, it is in the same breath to say that I myself would be prepared to support this as a very permanent solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u208	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u209	Mr President! In municipal elections, the people choose the decision-makers in the municipalities. My legislative initiative concerns greater respect for election results. Technical electoral unions after the municipal elections are a little puzzled. They can be used to shape the outcome of the elections, which, of course, is quite common practice. The result of the election will then be distorted, because the parties that are party to the election after the election will be treated as one party. After the municipal elections, the seats and places of trust of the presidents of the municipal institutions should be determined in accordance with the relative election result of the electoral method. It would be good if the election unions were announced before the elections. After the elections, it's different from a municipal citizen's point of view, and it can distort the result of the election. In municipal elections, trust places are distributed on the basis of the number of delegates in accordance with the principle of proportionality laid down in the Municipal Election Act. The seats and other places of trust of the chairmen of the municipal board, the municipal council, the sections and the committees must be divided according to the same principle of proportionality, so that the municipal institutions also have the result of the municipal elections. It seems that the only purpose of the post-election technical electoral alliances is to change the outcome of the democratic elections. Elections seem more acceptable if they are announced honestly before the elections. The post-election technical electoral alliances easily create a situation where the elected representatives do not represent the outcome of the elections or the will of the voters. The voter does not then know that, in voting for a particular party, he will also give his support to a completely different party, which he might not have wanted to support. The election union of smaller parties enables changes to the positions of trust to the loss of the party with the highest number of votes. The election union, consisting of smaller parties, can receive the chairmanship of the Board of Directors, the Board of Governors and the Boards. In this case, a party with a higher number of votes may receive fewer seats than, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, would have obtained the result of the election. In this case, a smaller number of votes and a smaller number of delegates may gain more significant positions of trust than a larger number of votes and a party with more delegates. The result of the vote must be respected. I think it would be good if the election union were announced before the elections. There are very diverse practices in municipalities. Some agree that the election results will be respected, some of which will be conducted by electoral alliances calculated after the elections. The most important thing is, of course, that people vote in elections. The right to vote is very important, and that is what we must pass on to people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u210	Mr President! Representative Reijosen's bill is up-to-date, and there will be municipal elections again. Yes, it is a fair game for the voters, that the electoral unions are known before the elections, that the voters know what they are voting for. Even after the elections, the parties should also ensure that those who have been elected by the local authorities take the toughest seats in the boards and the government, rather than train what happens often, especially in the old parties, that those who hold power in the municipal organisations, even though the people do not vote very much, are then rewarded by those good boards of office or government seats. It does take the voters' enthusiasm to vote, and those who have voted the most then do not get the seats, how it should actually go according to the election results.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u211	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. To the conversation. First signatory of the initiative, Mr Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u212	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill is, in fact, very simple and unusually small. If anyone has ever said that it will only take 15 minutes to change a law, then this will only take one minute, namely, the bill is really simple. In accordance with this Act, the white cheek goose would be transferred to Section 5 of the Hunting Act and would be among other relatives, i.e. their peers. Before that, game animals are a sea goose, a goose and a goose, and now, according to this bill, a white goose would go there. But in politics nothing is simple; if someone seems simple, it must be made complicated. This bill started in the early autumn, when this problem was big, because, as many colleagues here know, farmers in North Karelia and South-East Finland had very serious problems when huge herds of thousands of white-cheese geese caused real damage to their property. Together with Mr Myllykoski, we have given this issue a little more serious thought, not just a button on the forehead. In our view, when a farmer encounters his own property and business even total destruction — because these flocks of birds are like mowing machines — then we will also have to assess fundamental rights when everyone's property is protected by the Constitution and the freedom to conduct a business is protected. When such massive damage is at stake, we then had some thought that something should be done about this. Mr Krista, Minister for the Environment Mikkonen has also said, I believe, that if the Birds Directive — which I think is the first annex to the white goose — were to begin as if it were to be collected, those animals, this white goose would not go there, then it would show that there should be some kind of sensitivity in the EU to live in time and change the regulations that have clearly fallen behind. As a species of white - cheeked goose, it is growing so much that it has become a real problem. I would not think very little that if they park on a small lake and stay there for a month, then there will be phosphorus and other environmental pollution — contrary to what some organisations have said that it does not matter. It is not of little value either that if white-cheese geese here in Helsinki, when they appear quite abundant, cause a clear harm to environmental hygiene, there is even a section in the Constitution that everyone has responsibility for the environment. So I don't quite understand that there's nothing we can do about it. But what makes this a problem: Since it is understandable that farmers suffer damage and the bird is protected under the Nature Conservation Act, farmers must be compensated. In other words, there is an instrument in Finland from which these compensations are paid, and I understand that the appropriation goes from a specific item of the Ministry of the Environment and from the nature conservation funds. And this is the biggest dispute that has to do with why this species cannot be put under the Hunting Act, because the ministries have a different view — the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry — and if it went into the Hunting Act, some say that payments to farmers would cease altogether. Well, I don't believe that, because it's intimidation. But the other thing is whether it will prevent the parliament from making such transactions that payments for nature conservation funds will be made for geese and transferred to the relevant item of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. I have been told that this is impossible, that the EU will not allow this to happen again, that the father will tell me that this cannot be done, that it is so big that it must definitely be a European notification. But when I personally looked at some different-looking directives and possibilities of derogating from them, then yes there read that if such an instrument exists in a Member State, then this instrument can be introduced. In other words, the EU is not at the end of the day interested in what article in the yellow book is being paid to these farmers. But I am not going to argue: if this is a religion for someone, then I do respect the fact that without Europe there is obviously no way to make very large transactions at national level, for example in white cheek geese. This is also a little more important because of the protection of property, because if one species starts to dominate too much, it may harm other species, and this is already seen in the case of the cormorants — that is what has been said in this Chamber — and if a species is allowed to grow too much, then it will start to harm other species and cause a variety of problems. I think that we should move on, because if this goes to the hunting law, then farmers in North Karelia, for example, could, in my opinion, rely on hunters, and they could even sell the hunters permits to scare and shoot these geese. As I recall, Article 9 of the Birds Directive allows these derogations to be made at the discretion of a Member State, provided that they are notified to the Commission and do not cause the problem of a certain level of protection beginning to fall below a certain limit. So of course we understand that if white-cheese geese are reduced, then farmers will not have those problems, that is, we are not being unreasonable and hunters are not being unreasonable and the authorities are not. But then, what has been rather embarrassing about this, a direct waste: When we are talking about food waste, Finland has, in my opinion, been guilty of a false interpretation of the directive — a Member of Parliament may rather speak about it — in such a way that when an exception has been granted to shoot a certain amount, to bludgeon and shoot these geese, it has nevertheless been permitted to refrain from eating or using them, but to bury them or burn them. What a waste of this kind... As a veterinarian, I do not understand that meat is game meat and game must be respected. Whether it was shot on the basis of the hunting law or the Nature Conservation Act or on the basis of any exception, the EU does not deny this exploitation of meat, but it is a Finnish civil service invention and from the Ministry of the Environment. I thus challenged it publicly to criticise and judge that this should by no means be the case, that it is contrary to the principles of Finnish game ethics and food waste. This is a petty initiative, but I hear a pretty big fight about this has already come from the ministry and the ministry officials. But a small moment shift and a small transfer to the Hunting Act would be made further on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u213	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Eestilä for his very well-founded presentation and for his comments on this non-goose soup, when it is not allowed to be eaten. This is really a bigger issue than just the small one, because now we are dealing with the extreme question of whether the specific legislation on the protection of property, the freedom to conduct a business, the right to the environment and equality make the Constitution subordinate. I personally do not understand how we have been able to get into this situation, that we have specific legislation to determine what is the protection of the trader's property and the freedom to engage in business. I still believe that these white- cheeked geese also oppress the property protection and environmental law of citizens. A Finnish normally pays municipal tax, which maintains parks, parks, beaches, children’s playgrounds in society — and then it happens: it is conquered by geese. They're useless. At that time, the share of the property paid by this municipality will be unused, and in that respect we will be in a difficult situation. During this parliamentary term, we must now be able to take decisions in Parliament, together with the Members of Parliament, in order to take this issue in a more normal direction. Personally, I would like that arrangement to be so well articulated that it is not going to happen in these situations, as it was with the female, which was a warning example that it would not be worth going out in a hurry. When the female calmed down and was allowed to start shooting, it happened that the female was allowed to shoot, but the damage did not stop, but the compensation stopped. In that sense, Mr Eestilä has now opened up the argument in these discussions that yes, this permit, which is to be paid through the Ministry of the Environment, could be paid even if the white-cheese goose were to be transferred to a species to be hunted, until then this block has been put in order so that we do not have any money flows in relation to these compensations. However, we have legislation in preparation at the moment. We are already making a law, a legal text that compensates for the damage done to protected animals. Unfortunately, those who came from the west coast... The ministries have again left the cormorade out of its own circle in discussions. It is incomprehensible how two ministers and ministry officials can engage in this bickering in such a way that the rights of the children of a Finnish citizen, an agricultural entrepreneur, a fisherman, a housewife and a father are being trampled on while the cat’s tail is being played out of whose purse these damages are being compensated for. I very much hope that this bill will be one part of our being able to gain reasonableness to this, a balanced situation with nature and humans and other natural organisms. We will be discussing wolves at some point in this Chamber. And even at that point, you have to be able to keep your senses in your head and take into account different views on things. But the end should be such that the white goose is suitable for our nature and that these millions of geese will soon fly over our nature. So we have two types of white cheek geese as such: one only performs overflights, but the other does an unfortunate spring refueling in the farmer's fields. And for compensation: It is somewhat perverse that when a farmer, a farmer, encounters that unfortunate event, then, if it is a very good farmhouse, he will receive compensation, not according to the actual damage, but according to the average damage. It must be so that the damage is fully compensated. But now Congressman Myllykoski finds himself excited. President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by giving Members, others, the opportunity to speak on this good initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u214	The next step is to give this opportunity to Mr Vestman, who is absent. Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u215	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Myllykoski, for your very enthusiastic and well-founded speech, and Mrs Eestilä has also made an excellent point and what this is all about. In this Chamber, geese have been discussed for a long time and with dedication in the past, even in such a way that some representatives have been found slipping their lips. White cheek geese cause extensive property damage to farmers in Finland each year, as has already been said several times. In addition to this, beaches, golf courses and green areas for recreational purposes, especially in southern Finland, are affected by white cheek geese feces. The inadequacy of prevention measures has increased the damage caused by white cheek geese throughout the 2010s. This year was particularly bad, for natural food was scarce due to the migration of geese. As a result, the geese moved to the fields for meals. Finland interprets the EU Birds Directive rigorously and hunting and stock management of white cheek geese is not possible, so the bird population continues to grow. That is why this bill is also welcome. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that hunting for white-tailed deer is very difficult, as it requires an enormously uniform area of land to obtain catch permits. As a result, the fields and the little ones are full of deer in the company of the geese. I have tabled a legislative initiative on this in the past to make it easier to obtain fishing permits for white-tailed deer, and I also support the initiative taken by Mr Eestilä in relation to white-cheese geese. Especially this year has been exceptional in a bad way. Hundreds of thousands of birds moved from field to field, eating all that was growing: cereals, grapes, and peas. The plague of the Old Testament, in which the Pharaoh of Egypt was tormented with swarms of crickets, inevitably comes to mind. The Egyptians were powerless in the face of their own plague, just like farmers in today’s Finland. Of course, the Ely Centre has granted derogations for the shooting of a few geese in order to prevent crop damage, but the measures are quite inadequate. In reply to Mr Myllykoski’s written question on the prevention of damage to white cheek geese, the Ministry of the Environment stated: “...as in Sweden,the Ministry of the Environment seesthe possibility of an equivalent level of regulation in Finland as regards conservation hunting,which would be regulated by hunting legislation. “ It is very important to take this into account. Our advantage over the Egyptians is the goose fist of ministries, animals and the Game Center, but that fist must be armored to eliminate the scourge caused by flocks of geese, and this is done by allowing protection hunting.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u216	Mr President! I support Mr Eestilä's initiative to include white cheek geese as a game animal in the hunting law. Like the cormorants, too much stock is a problem, as was already discussed yesterday in the Chamber. White cheek geese have been doing property damage to farmers in Finland for years. It is good to understand that the current strain of the cormorants, such as the white - cheeked goose, could withstand hunting. The Ely Centre's exemption arrangement has been all right for the moment, but certainly not enough. There are still too many individuals, the bureaucracy for obtaining permits that are absurd, and the birds killed to the top of everything must not be used as food. It is clear that the conditions for the protection of the species are no longer met, as the law no longer corresponds to the number of bird populations. According to the August report of the Joint Working Group of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of the Environment, white cheek geese as the EU's most numerous species of geese would also be included in Annex III of the Berne Agreement and Annex II of the Birds Directive in the current situation, which would make it possible to regulate its position by hunting. However, the definition of the EU Birds Directive does not determine which national legislation the species must be, and in Sweden and Estonia, for example, white cheek geese have been classified as a game species in the same way as this Eestilä initiative, in which case protection hunting is allowed to prevent serious damage to crops. Mr President! The goose stock is expected to continue to grow further. Hunting outside the breeding season and punching eggs would be sustainable and effective ways of curbing agricultural crop damage. It is therefore absurd that, under the leadership of Minister Mikkonen, the setting up of buffet areas for geese should take place next spring, as this could easily be remedied by legislative changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u217	Mr President! Mr Estilä's bill is certainly to be welcomed. The population of white cheek geese is spreading more and more in Finland, and it is also growing. This causes great losses for farmers, and geese cannot go to these birdfields where these so-called buffet lunches are ready — they go where they want to go and land when they want to. Congressman Myllykoski spoke of these overflying geese, but we have In the bay they do not fly over; they have stayed there to live quite accurately. We have a very wide-ranging problem there. We have all the beaches practically occupied, the most popular beaches, those lawn areas there, parks. There they are, and they are very aggressive. They attack cyclists, even others who go for a little walk down the walkway. In practice, they think they already own all the regions. The Ely Center won't allow them to be harassed. Some small fences can be built on the beach — that they can be kept off, but they don't do much good. Well, not a lot of sunbathers want to go to the grass on the beach to sunbathe when they're full of garbage. The same on the walkways: there the tires of the baby carriages get dirty, the tires of the wheelchairs get dirty, and when you push them home, you are forced to wash them so that there will be no bacteria. There have been beaches where you can't swim when you've got bacteria from these feces. People are now suffering and leaving, as has been said here, away from their territory when those geese, as newcomers, take all the space. Congressman Junnila talked about golf courses, too. Yes, let's take a look at one of the grins on the golf course, and for years the geese have kept it their own. There's no one in the canteen at all, it's practically impossible. [Vilhelm Junnila’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u218	Irade the Talman! Jag vill börja med att tacka ledamot Eestilä för hans lagmotion och hans anförande. Jag instammer lustaså i ledamot Myllykoskis anförande, och — som jag glömde att säga i går — också hans anförande om skarven i går samstammer jag om. I dag diskuterar vi den vitkindade gåsen, i går var det skarven, några dagar sedan var det vargen. Vi har ett problemm i vår skyddspolitik av olika arter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u219	Mr President! Mr Koponen spoke of buffet tables, and the situation is indeed that during this corona period, Koponen will not be able to get a standing table to eat, but we still have the willingness in the legislative people to have these feeding fields and others arranged for geese. Actually, it's a good idea to keep the scale. Hundreds of thousands and even millions have been mentioned here. Yes, there are a huge number of white-cheese geese, and when they come to a very small area, they are also in keeping with it. Then we always have a discussion about when the golden jackal comes to Finland and whether, for example, a raccoon can be allowed to enter Finland. It is considered to be a bad animal, although many would like it to be a pet, for example, and yet some tens, hundreds, or at most thousands. This has spread, for example, to Denmark and southern Sweden. In such matters, Finland is extremely strict. The legislation protects that it is not allowed to be imported to Finland, it must not be kept, it must not be allowed to reproduce. But then the geese get to fly here as huge flocks, and in the face of this society seems so powerless that the only thing it can provide is feeding fields. After all, this is a rather unimaginable problem. However, the white cheek goose is so well nested here that there is actually a Goosebard sculpture here in Lintulahden Square, Helsinki. So in our case, white cheek geese have gained a strangely strong position in relation to other animals, such as the wild boar, which also causes damage. Something can be done about it, something can be done about the raccoon, it is extremely hard on the raccoon — but the white cheek geese, the cormorants, this kind of forest, they always seem to be outside the law of all the farmers, concerning the people of the archipelago and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u220	And the first signatory of the initiative, Mr Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-26-ps-152.u221	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for a proper debate, and I have the feeling that at this time of the evening, Members of Parliament in a certain style have been selected, and I myself represent this style. There are two final points I would like to make: Firstly, even if this white goose is transferred to the hunting law, its Article 5, the obligation to protect the Birds Directive will not go away. In other words, we are not just shooting, we are just, as it were — at least in my own definition — dealing with the problem of people in those provinces with common sense. And now we come to the interesting thing, that's the second thing. Representative Myllykoski also mentioned the wolf, and now that this issue is in a frozen conflict — when geese, when wolves — there are usually two parties: there are certain people who are against shooting and hunting categorically, and then there are people who live in an area where the eye meets the eye every week with the same problem, whether it is a wolf or a goose. What do you think, which opinion should weigh more? Generally, problems are solved according to the viewpoint of people who suffer from the problems, but those who do not suffer appear to be in this equal position. And when these opinions are always pitted against each other, it will be this frozen conflict. Mr Norrback made an excellent speech that we should try to update them from time to time and reflect on the facts. So when I used this expression of common sense, it always depends on who has good sense. But I personally represent the direction in which the problem must always be solved more in the light of the perspective of those who are suffering from that problem in reality. — Thank you, Mr President.
