ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u1	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u2	Congressman Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u3	Mr President! Britain's resignation from the European Union finally came true a week ago. The True Finns congratulate the independent Britain and hope that this historic event will serve as a healthy wake-up call for the most passionate federal supporters elsewhere. My question, however, is about money. Britain was the second largest net contributor to the EU, and when it does, this will naturally be reflected in the status of the remaining net contributors, provided that the expenditure side of the EU budget is not severely reduced. The Commission has proposed an increase in the budget to 1.11% of GDP. Of course, the net beneficiaries of Eastern and Southern Europe are in favour of this. On the other hand, most small net contributors, such as the Netherlands, Sweden and Austria, have taken a hard stand in this regard, as is reasonable. What is the position of the red - green government? Does it accept a permanent increase in Finland's net contribution with Brexit, or is it in favour of reducing expenditure, and if yes, from where?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u4	Mr President! Excellent question, Mr Halla-aho. We are in fact living in the historic age in which a Member State of the European Union is disengaging, and Great Britain is leaving. Fortunately, however, we can all breathe a sigh of relief that the Brexis are now taking place within the framework of the agreement. We're not cut off now. We are now preparing for the future in which Great Britain is a third country in relation to the European Union. But it will have an impact on the Union's financing. The impact was already taken into account in good time that when the European Union Commission prepared its own proposal for the coming financial framework period 2021, the Brexit was calculated as if. In other words, all preparations are based on the fact that one large net contributor has left the Union. In exactly the same way, when the Finnish Presidency prepared its own proposal for the financial framework, the effect of Brexit has been taken away.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u6	Mr President! When Finland joined the European Union in 1995, the EU consisted mainly of countries which were at a similar level in terms of social and economic development. Since then, the nature of the EU has changed quite substantially. Less developed countries have been included, EU expenditure and tasks have increased, while net beneficiaries have increased their weight in decision-making on expenditure. So Santas are the guardians of the cabbage country, as they say. During the Finnish Presidency that had already ended, Mr Tuppurainen, the European Minister for Foreign Affairs, expressed a frightening enthusiasm for further enlargements. In what way is it in Finland’s interest that the EU expands to new countries that are not ready for membership? Haven't you learned anything from the previous rounds and mistakes?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u7	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that the European Union is not just accounting for us, nor for Finland, nor for other Member States. When we assess the benefits of this European cooperation, they are intangible, like peace and stability. They are primarily values and things that cannot be counted in the euro, and I believe that this is a rather widely shared view in this Chamber. Nevertheless, of course, we also have these economic effects, and a little following on from your previous question: we are coming now at the end of this week in the Committee of EU Ministers to set Finland's own interests and Finland's own objectives for this future EU budget period. But with regard to the enlargement of the EU: Some of the Western Balkan countries, North Macedonia and Albania, have now been on the table, and we are now discussing whether or not membership negotiations should be opened. If it were to be decided to open negotiations, it does not yet mean that these countries would automatically become Member States, but that strict criteria would go ahead and that negotiations could be held for up to years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u8	Mr President! Neither EU federalism nor orders from above were good enough for the British. The orders of the Finnish Government in Brussels are still valid, but the Finnish people are aware and understand that the power of the bureaucrats in Brussels cannot grow forever. Brexit is not about the isolation of the nation, it is about independence. The United Kingdom will continue to cooperate fully internationally and will continue its international trade. Finland should act like a sensible country and now try to ensure its own interests. Even Sweden is now opposed to an increase in EU membership fees, but the Finnish Government seems to be working on the EU elite. The realisation of Brexit and growing EU spending make us doubt, and also in other countries, whether the EU's direction is good, whether this makes sense. Tell me again, what is the government's line?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u10	Mr President! It is, of course, Britain's own decision to leave the Union, and each Member State is making its own decisions. However, the majority have decided to remain in the Union because of its advantages, but the EU is not a coercive community. If a Member State wants to leave, it has now been proven that this is possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u13	Mr President! The Government Programme states that enlargement and neighbourhood policy play an important role in promoting peace, prosperity and security and stability in Europe. The British expressed their opinion on the federal development of the EU when the European empire voted with its feet and walked away from the Union. If the parts taken by the British are patched with broken parts, the wheels of the EU will certainly break down in future bumps. There is, of course, a lot of money in the other direction for the European Union, and why would it not be enough when the net contributors' tax euros are caught in the eye? The EU is in a constant state of inflammation due to the violation of its own principles and the political project on the euro. In 2007, Bulgaria, which is leading in corruption in the EU, and Romania, whose human rights violations are not hidden from anyone. What line is the government taking with regard to EU enlargement? We did not just receive an answer to this question that was raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u14	Mr President! I think it is worth quoting now that citizens' support for the EU and European cooperation is perhaps at an historic height at the moment. This is reflected in the Eurobarometer surveys. This was reflected in last spring's elections to the European Parliament: the turnout rose, and these anti-EU and anti-critical forces did not win any such election victory, which should lead to the conclusion that the citizens had turned their backs on the European Union. Yes, the EU is supported, and we can be at peace with it and stand firmly behind the principles of the Marin government's EU policy. We are an active Member State in the front line of the EU. We support a strong and capable Union. When you asked, Mr Tynkkynen, about the principles of enlargement, we firmly adhere to the rule of law, which was also a central theme of our Presidency. Perhaps you would also have expected support from the largest opposition party for the Finnish line on the rule of law,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u15	Mr President! On Monday the visit to Brussels had a sad sight when the British flagpole was empty. [Base Finns Group : Happy View!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u16	Mr President! Congressman Orpo, that's right. You're absolutely right. Both in the Commission proposal and in the proposal specified by the Finnish Presidency, these so-called new, modern targets are clearly the largest expenditure category in the budget. They are more than a third of all spending, and they are directed at the very things I have heard from the right side of the Chamber that are often required. The EU must be stronger in external border control. We must have a number of main categories to respond to immigration, the integration of immigrants within the borders of the European Union and so on. For this we need common funds. Europe operates where we need a greater player than a single nation state, and through the EU budget we can obtain these resources. It should be noted that, when the Commission takes Brexit into account in its budget proposal, the Commission also started to phase out the payment corrections currently being received by certain Member States and to introduce the so-called new EU own resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u17	Mr President! Just as Mr Orpo said, it is a question of what Finland receives, what is Finland’s recovery, and trade and trade policy are at the heart of this. I myself was in London at the beginning of the week discussing the future of the EU-UK future in trade policy and the role of Finland. Brexit, Mrs Halla-aho, has a negative impact on the European economy as a whole, on Finland and also on Britain. This is also shown by studies in this field. It is therefore essential that the European Union establish as close a trade relationship as possible with the UK. The timetable is very tight, and I personally am very sceptical about the fact that we will have time to conclude a comprehensive trade agreement in this period. Finland's interest is still close cooperation with Britain, and that is what this government will do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u18	Mr President! This — like Mr Orpo — was for the majority of us Finns a day of disappointment and a moment of European, human, positive development. Of course, further treatment of this issue must now be carefully considered, because Britain is an essential partner for us, despite the Brexit phenomenon. Great Britain is by far the most important producer of security policy in Europe. Leaving the EU in this respect represents a major challenge for the development of the EU's defence dimension, and it is important for us that this issue is now not out of hand, but that the European Union is able to work in this regard in Britain.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u19	Minister Kaikkonen, if you respond quickly enough, so will the Minister. The wound will get the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u20	Mr President! There are at least two sides to this. On the one hand, the United Kingdom has been rather clamouring to develop joint European defence cooperation, and now that Britain is out, perhaps the rest of the team will have a little more freedom to intensify cooperation. On the other hand, it is exactly as you said, Mr Kanerva, that Great Britain is very important. It is a strong player in defence policy and it is important that cooperation between the EU countries and the UK continues in the future. On the basis of my discussions with the British Minister of Defence, I am going to have more of them in the coming weeks, in fact, with him, that the United Kingdom has a desire to continue this cooperation. It must be built on this year, in the near future, but at least this cooperation would benefit both the United Kingdom and the rest of the European Union, including Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u21	Mr President! This question by Mrs Kanerva is also very important from the point of view of the external impact of the EU as a whole. If you think that up to now, in these EU tables around the world, there has always been a British representative in the delegations and, if you think of their expertise in North Africa, the African continent, the Middle East, it has played a very important role in the EU's analytical capacity. And with regard to the recent conflicts in Iran-Irak and Libya, it has also been very important at that table of foreign ministers that Great Britain may have been present and that their views have been heard. Now, of course, there will be a challenge as to how this cooperation will be carried out in the future, but I assume that at least Finland's objective is to maintain and maintain this cooperation in security policy, its analytical capacity for global conflicts and so on. Hopefully, the security policy perspective between the EU and Great Britain will also be maintained in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u22	I would like to add a supplementary question to this question to Mrs Essayah and then to the original author of the question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u23	Mr President! The common EU budget is a challenge not only because the large net contributor country of Great Britain is leaving, but also because there are a lot of new areas in which the budget wants to invest. Of course, there is a need there – as colleagues have pointed out here – for security policy and external border control, but then for something which, from the Finnish point of view, can be regarded as extremely regrettable that the government has been inclined to support. I am talking here about the euro-area countries' own Euro-budget line. Finland has systematically opposed it, it has seen it as unnecessary, because it is intended to support, by means of a common currency, the promotion of conditions of competitiveness which, however, fall within the competence of the national authorities and in which responsibility should be assumed at national level. Nor will Finland benefit in any way from this euro-budget line in the light of these planned criteria, and I would have liked to ask: why is the Finnish Government yielding to this, that such a vain and expensive euro-country budget line is being made here within the budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u24	Mr President! It is worth saying that this EU financial framework is one whole and nothing has been decided until everything has been decided and everything is decided unanimously. Roughly speaking, the budget is divided into three categories: we have these traditional categories of expenditure, such as agriculture and regional development, i.e. cohesion, and then there are these new, modern targets, which I have just said are the biggest ones at the moment, and we also warmly promoted and support them as the Finnish Presidency. So now we are making this new budget for the euro. The Commission put forward quite a large budget for this, and the Finnish Presidency reduced that level. We took a number of billions out of it, and now this euro budget is worth more than EUR 10 billion, less than EUR 15 billion, in this proposal, and it is the subject of negotiations, as is everything else in this financial framework, and ultimately the decision will be taken as a whole. It is quite likely that this will happen. That is what the big countries in France have promoted, but others have done, and it is our job to ensure that it remains within the framework of the financial framework and that its uses become as sensible as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u25	Mr President! Membership of the EU and the single currency in the euro are seen in many quarters as a vital condition for Finland. However, we all know here that Finland's economy is in turmoil. Of course, the EU and the euro are not all the causes of our problems, but it is noteworthy that Finland is the only Nordic country where household incomes have fallen throughout the last decade. If your currency was a disaster and a disaster for Finland, why have the locusts not eaten Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Iceland? Why is the euro a blessing to us when it is generally acknowledged that Sweden, for example, has benefited greatly from its own currency? What good has euro membership brought to Finnish households, which our Nordic neighbours as well as the British have missed out on? Will Finland be driven to all its cores because it is in the interests of the Finns, or is it just for ideological reasons?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u26	Mr President! Obviously, the issue was about the single currency and the decisions that have been taken in Finland at the time, and of course, if you think about history, then the euro has also created stability in this country, if you think about interest rate policy, or, on the other hand, about the criticism that Halla-aho made, then our economies are different between Sweden and Finland. Of course, we must also learn and model from Sweden on a number of issues, such as the fact that they have carried out labour market reforms, but the fact that it has been decided in due course to go into the single currency has been a decision, and that is where Finland will remain. What has happened as a result of the financial crisis, that Finland did not get on the move so quickly, has certainly been one of the reasons why our economic structure is still somewhat one-sided. But we are able to influence this nationally, and that is the work that is being done in this Chamber, but I do not agree with Mrs Halla-aho that the foundations and credibility of the whole system are being undermined.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u27	Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u28	Mr President! We're running out of time. Today, Finland only has 20 days to apply for tens of millions of EU funding. By filling in these applications, it is possible to receive funding from the EU for projects vital to the movement of Finns. In this Chamber, I have been pushing the government since autumn to make the search. The Coalition Party wants to develop the whole of Finland and its connections. Now we fear that the government is in danger of losing not a thousand dollars but millions of euros. 20 days — no application. Minister Harakka, recently in the Finnish Photomagazine, you were in charge of bypassing the search to the municipalities. This is unreasonable. The government has jurisdiction. My question is: will you be able to apply for EU funding for large rail projects, as we have long been asking you, or will Finland in practice miss free money?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u29	Mr President! Take your fear away. We'll have time to pick it up. This would be a brief answer to the good and important question of the representative, but we really have three weeks to apply for funding both for the Turku-hour train project and then for the Suomi-Railway project from the EU. There are many numbers here, so now we are in a situation where some EUR 40 million worth of these two projects would be available for funding in Finland in this application, which is the last search for this current, ending search. After that, there will be another opportunity and that great opportunity later on. As far as the sections of these municipalities are concerned, we have had groundbreaking, unique, wonderful negotiations with the many cities that have been involved, and it is a pleasure to announce that I am sure that next week we will be able to tell exactly what the cost of this will be for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u30	I would ask those of you who wish to ask supplementary questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u31	Mr President! Even if the application were finally sent in the direction of the EU, and hopefully this will happen, the fact remains that by acting in time we could have received more. The total amount of funding is EUR 1.4 billion. We are disappointed that you did not put major rail projects on a larger scale last autumn. There is an alternative to your hesitation and timetables. In the alternative budget for the Coalition Party, we presented the means by which projects could have been capitalised with EUR 1 billion. This amount would have made it possible to put projects forward both north, west and east. EU funding could be significantly higher. We also allocated funding for repairs to the main track, for example, where the crash could have been landed immediately. Minister Harakka, have you been aware that by making decisions in time, Finland could have received even more funding from this application?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u32	Mr President! I am glad that the coalition is tightening these rail projects, because in the years that you were in the government from 2007 to 2019, no new lines were built in Finland. [Right : Ohhh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u33	Mr President! At all stages, including in the previous government, the Coalition Party has accelerated the establishment and progress of these project companies. [Left: Resina!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u34	Mr President! Indeed, at the beginning of this week, the government met for a joint climate conference, and I am very pleased that it is where we have now achieved clear emission reduction targets for the various sectors. It has been said that more needs to be done and no action has been taken, but action is already under way, and, for example, this energy subsidy for housing companies and detached houses has been opened up since the beginning of this year. It can be used in particular by housing companies, terraced houses, detached houses and double houses, for example, to switch oil heating to something else, i.e. they will be able to receive a significant subsidy from the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u35	Mr President! Mr Harakka, I do not think you can be so ignorant of what has happened in Finland over the last ten years on the rails. When the coalition has been on the board, significant decisions have been taken to repair the main track: the first phase of the major renovation 2016, the second phase of Pasila-Riihimäki, the triangle track — during the Minister of Finance Orpo. The renovation of the Riihimäki station yard, the accessibility of the station, is currently being carried out on the basis of the previous government decision. You really don't know what's going on on the tracks? And all of this has been done, Minister, so that now that the Connecting Europe programme is launched, we will be prepared to apply for this money. Three million people live along this track. We would have needed Ville Veturi first of all, but, Minister,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u36	Mr President! It is very commendable that these improvements have been made, and they will of course continue, but we are talking about the whole. We are talking about entirely new policies that have not been achieved in the last decade. The Espoo-Salo interval is at stake here and also a new flight path.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u38	Mr President! I would have asked Minister Haraka: When it comes to the Turku hour track and the Finland track, why not a word about the eastern line, because in fact the Eastern Finland line has its own side of the line, too? Why is there hardly any mention of this eastern rail project at the Minister's mouth?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u39	Mr President! Thank you for a very good supplementary question. These other two railway projects are one step further than this east track — which we will have a report on this month. In September, in the Committee of Ministers for Economic Policy, which therefore quickly started to set up these planning companies, it was agreed that the various options for the eastern track would be examined here. That is where we will be able to move forward in this context when the two other planning companies, as I hope they will, can now be set up. This EU search will be achieved on a fast schedule, and then we will have time, as it should be, for municipal decision-making in all these merited cities that want to be involved in the future of rail transport, plus then we will have a shareholder agreement and a company agreement that will all be concluded in peace after EU funding has been secured.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u40	Mr President! This continuum with this EU transport funding reflects in itself the more general EU line in Finland, which is not exactly the line, everything is fine. You don't even take what you get. This is not the line from other countries. They know national lobbying and receive funding for transport projects and other projects. Finland should have more national interest in these matters. However, transport is not the only thing where national lobbying is needed in the EU. So I ask the government: when will the day come when, for example, you are going to say to the European Union that Finland has the best forest industry in the world and the best forest management in the world, and that we need a framework for that industry and the possibility of doing that forest management and cutting forests?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u41	Mr President! Yes, this is the Finnish line constantly that we support industry in this country, and that is what we have said to the EU throughout the history of what Finland has been in the EU. With regard to these national decisions, perhaps I could point out here what was not mentioned a moment ago in connection with this early week's climate conference, namely that the Climate Fund is also trying to leverage investment in the form of a new European Green Deal, both private and public. And, for example, the fact that Finland is finally lowering the electricity tax there to the European minimum by this government is a decision that Finnish industry has been pushing for decades,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u43	Mr President! The Finns of Peru had an extremely fast turn of coats. In the recent question they did not want money or anything from the EU, and now they wanted money for transport. But that's enough. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u44	Mr President! I thank Mr Ovaska for this question. It is extremely important that we now put all this traffic planning in a completely new way. The answer to Mr Mäkelä is that, when we are able to reflect on the priorities with which we want to promote these big projects in a long-term perspective within 12 years, then our applications for EU support will also reach a completely different level when we can already know and be sure and anticipate what kind of projects Finland will have. This is also important for Finnish industry, which can anticipate the way in which their needs are then cared for. And we will also be able, through our own national measures, to ensure that every investment that is coming to Finland does not at least depend on the fact that the wood does not also travel on these smaller lower-degree road networks to where it belongs — and hopefully even more on the rails and inland waterways.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u45	Mr President! After all, we have a problem with receiving EU money, TEN-T money, for a very long time, because we have not had such long-term goals, i.e. plans, in what way, for example, rail transport projects are being carried forward. Here is it for our big problem, and now we are coming to this sort of 12-year plan, what we are very strongly taking forward. So I ask the Minister: how do you see whether we will have better access to funding for rail and bus projects in general in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u46	Mr President! Thank you for this question. Indeed, the objective is that this application for 40 million in 20 days' time, plus the other projects, is just the beginning. We get to a situation where the Finnish transport system can be better anticipated and also supported from abroad. What is also important is that all parliamentary parties are involved in planning this 12-year project,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u49	Mr President! The investments in rail transport are investments in both the clean climate and the smooth everyday life of people, and that is, of course, very much in line with the government's objectives. It is good to hear, Minister Harakka, that these rail projects are intended to move forward. From a climate point of view, transport is one of the most important emission reduction targets, and it certainly does not happen by itself. I would like to ask: how will the government ensure that, in addition to the railways, progress is made in promoting walking and cycling and electrification of transport, for example, with a view to this Government's carbon neutral Finland 2035 objective?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u50	Mr President! Thank you for this question. The emission reduction targets for transport are very ambitious, and the aim is that we can improve the options, offer new alternatives to people's mobility. The share of rail transport that you mentioned then must increase, but this government has also made a first effort to promote walking and cycling, as much as EUR 40 million per year. It has also been a pleasure now to announce EUR 20 million in support of climate-friendly public transport throughout Finland for all Finnish municipalities and cities, so that we can be assured that the opportunities for Finnish people to provide services in terms of mobility will improve at the same time as the climate is protected.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u51	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Haraka. It was good to hear that we are now promising to apply for these projects. Of course, I would have liked to have said that three weeks ago, when I left a written question with concern, two words could have been used to answer it: yes. As far as this previous government is concerned, it is necessary to add enough to these previous speeches that the previous government did push these capacity increases and fast connections forward by the fact that the Turku hour train was strongly launched, that the project company was in practice prepared for the main track, that the seed money was added to the planning and that it was included in the TEN-T network. I would like to ask about the wider impact of the EU: This could take place even further than this EU Presidency, but the EU budget that Finland has drawn up was not accepted, among other things, and we have now danced on the edge of a knife in this matter until the last minute, and we are anxious whether we will be able to make it. I would like to ask Minister Tuppurainen and the whole government: how do you intend to ensure that projects of importance to Finland can be effectively carried forward in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u52	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Ikonen, for this question. I'm pleased to say that this is the 20th of this month. The meeting of the extraordinary European Council was convened by the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, to discuss the multiannual financial framework. And he would not do so unless the Finnish Presidency gave it the preconditions. Michel is currently conducting bilateral negotiations with the Heads of State or Government, which is why our Prime Minister, Sanna Marin, is currently on a mission to Brussels to meet the President of the European Council and to promote these important issues for Finland — good friends on the right! This is how we deal with the European issues: let us go where we decide and meet and discuss and bring the important questions to Finland to the table. Yes, we have benefited very much from the EU budget. For example, Horizon funding for research institutes and universities, which can be obtained on a knowledge-based basis, based on that, Finland has received a huge amount of money, and in the future we will see to it that the pot from which to apply grows. Similarly, we will have considerable EU funding for rural development, and here we are going to take care of our interests,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u53	On this issue, I will give the questions to Mr Tavio and Mr Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u54	Mr President! Let us be quite clear: Finland is a net contributor to the EU, [Department : Name! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u55	Mr President! It is this 12-year transport system plan, which is now being launched through cooperation between all parliamentary parties and which is due to start next spring, that will take care of all forms of mobility in Finland. We have the promise and commitment of this government that we will add EUR 300 million every year to basic infrastructure management, and I hope and believe that the next governments will also keep this same commitment. Then the debt of repair will begin to fall at the end of this decade and it can be ensured that Finns will also be able to use cars on better and safer roads. Of course, the condition of roads is related to safety, and we have a single right objective in terms of road safety, and that is that we have zero road deaths every year, and I believe that we are all working together here to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u56	Mr President! Effective, fast rail connections are important for the movement of people and goods as well as for climate objectives. It is an excellent thing that the government has now finally taken these project companies prepared by the previous government from the shelf and proceeds on the basis of them. That is what the previous government already provided for, despite opposition from the opposition at the time. It's good that you're going along with this, but why on earth have you been stalling? Nor did you answer the question whether you are aware that Finland could have benefited even more from this search through prompt action. Clock's ticking, search list and applications aren't showing. We've got the search papers ready here. So, are you really ready to put the name under and the search forward now?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u57	Mr President! Now there are a lot of things that seem to get a little mixed up with each other. The project companies of the previous government are quite different, and that is why they failed to comply when the government itself resigned. These project companies, these design companies, which were set up in September, are based on the fact that the state is the dominant factor in them at 51% and then these cities, which are involved in them at 49%. I do not quite understand what we would have missed out on, as I told you right now that over 40 million dollars can be paid to these two railway companies at this stage and these applications will be made in good time, according to your original question. Once we've moved on from this stage and we've got the real building work to do,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u58	Next question, Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u59	Mr President! The Government is bringing to Parliament a proposal for binding 0.7's nurses' measurements. KD is in favour of dimensioning, but the planned funding raises questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u62	Mr President! In fact, these representatives: Savings or expense reductions raised by Tanus
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u65	For further questions, press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u66	Mr President! I'd like to ask the Minister: You mentioned a major overall reform of medical care. At what stage is this reform going on, and at what point should it come to Parliament? I would also like to remind you, as we have said on several occasions in this Chamber, that our growing and ageing population needs better care and care than we have been able to offer them in recent years. More caring hands are needed. It is envisaged that the Act on the manning of this instrument will enter into force before 23 C.E., but the transitional period will not end until the end of March 23, i.e. at the end of the parliamentary term. I would like to ask the minister in question: why does the final move only take place at that time, even though we were already talking last season about the urgency of this matter? Or isn't it that busy anymore? Why does responsibility for implementation and funding in practice only shift to the next government?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u68	Mr President! In Parliament, this has been a matter of great length of time. I think ten years will soon be over, and my predecessors in many generations have also passed a binding dimension to the law as regards nursing and nursing staff. I think it is at the time of Minister Guzenina, when this matter was the most wallpaper in this Chamber, and Parliament already required, by all parties, that a binding dimension be put into the law. We still haven't seen that show yet, and at least we'll live in 2020. Today is an historic day in which this is really being answered by a binding staffing measure, which comes into the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u72	Mr President! This is like the beginning of its transition period, or April 2023, just before the next parliamentary elections. What is more interesting now is that all of us in this Chamber want to see this carerisation done, but this financial aspect is completely unclear. What does it mean that digitalisation can finance this? What does it mean that these reimbursements of medicines can be financed? What does this mean to make purchasing services more efficient? As Mari announced, these are the objectives. What if this doesn't happen, where does this money come from? Will there then be any other medical treatment, the treatment of the disabled, or what are you going to deal with and take this money for?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u73	Mr President! This speech clearly shows why it has not been wanted for more than ten years that the services of the elderly can be put in order. There's always a need for this money. There are many other people who need it, and I'm not even talking about social and health care. On this government base, we have now grabbed the bull by the horns. We must recognise that ageing is a phenomenon of our time. Old-age services can't get through their connections. We have had a long-standing crisis of elderly services, where solutions have been sought for neglect. Some of these solutions must be sought at the parliamentary level by amending the legislation. We must ensure that this current financial pile, which we have at the disposal of the State, is used an even bigger part to put these services in order. It is a matter of values, and on this basis it has been said that action will be taken. It also requires that we go through
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u74	Next question, Mr Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u75	Mr President! Minister Hatainen, you have taken steps to promote work-related immigration. That is quite right, but we must not forget Finnish unemployed or unemployed immigrants in Finland. Unemployment is a huge problem for people and the economy. However, I have a proposal for work-related immigration. It is a national "D" visa widely used in the Schengen area. It can be obtained by persons who, for example, have grounds for temporary residence in some countries because of their studies or work. The process of applying for a D visa is easier and excellent, especially for temporary labour. You could try it in Finland too in a limited way and then take a broader view of its use.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u76	Mr President! This type of visa proposed by Mr Harkimo is one of the options that are currently being considered here as a whole and which can promote work-related immigration. All options are now on the table, and we must also say from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that we have tried to dismantle the queues that visa applicants have in key areas. There must be a situation in which when a job seeker has a job here and an employer and a work permit in order, this bureaucracy with regard to visas would also be arranged more quickly, and this will also be given particular attention in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u77	Next question, Congressman Kautto.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u78	Mr President! News Jyväskylä's intention to investigate the partial transfer of water supply to private ownership has raised the risks of the privatisation of natural monopolies. Water is a prerequisite for life for humans. It is not right to subject such vital functions to the profit of private companies. International examples show that this is not wise either. In the UK, for example, privatisation has led to higher consumer prices and, at the same time, the infrastructure has deteriorated when investors have collected profits and have not made significant investments. Currently, the law does not impose restrictions on private ownership in water supply. I would like to ask: will the government restrict the sale of essential activities to individuals such as water supply to profit-making private companies by means of legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-06-ps-2.u79	Mr President! Water is our national property, and clean and safe drinking water is also a source of great pride for us, and it is therefore perfectly understandable that the intentions of cities to privatise some of the water supply facilities they own have raised concerns. As the questioner said, our water supply facilities are natural monopolies. Privatisation must therefore be treated with great caution. We do not want this new caruna for ourselves; it is quite clear. It is therefore necessary to monitor these matters and it is also necessary to settle them in the root of the matter. More than a few weeks ago, I have set up a working group to prepare this issue from these very points of view, from these points of view and to clarify the whole of our national water supply, to ensure its operation in all possible situations, to ensure its repair debt and also to deal with this private ownership.
