ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 16/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 December 2020. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u2	Mr President! I will table the amendments to paragraph 2 of protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u3	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u4	Mr President! I have a motion to amend paragraph 1 of the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u5	Before I give Mr S.H.I.E.L.D. the floor, could other representatives who are not going to support or put forward anything — other than their own show?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u6	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u7	Mr President! I have a motion for amendment to paragraph 2 of the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u8	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u9	Mr President! I have a motion to amend paragraph 1 of the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u10	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u11	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 December 2020 The debate, supported by Mr Sari Multala, has been followed by a motion for a statement under protest 1 and by Mr Ari Koponen, supported by Mr Sari Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u12	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u13	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 December 2020. In the debate Jukka Kopra, supported by Jari Ronkainen, has proposed that 1st and 2nd reading. the draft law is rejected and the Parliament accepts the draft statement in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u14	The motion for rejection shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u15	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u16	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 December 2020. In the debate, Riikka Slunga-Poutsalo Jari Ronkainen, supported by Mr Ronkainen, has tabled an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u17	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u18	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 December 2020. With the support of Ville Vähämäki Riikka Slunga-Poutsalo in the debate, Parliament has proposed to adopt two motions for statements under protest 1, Matias Marttinen has proposed, supported by Jukka Kopra, that Parliament adopt the draft statement under protest 2 and Päivi Räsänen has proposed, supported by Sari Tanus, that Parliament adopt the three proposals under protest 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u19	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u20	Mr Vähämäki's proposal 2 and Päivi Räsänen's proposal 3 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u21	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed and the debate was suspended at the plenary session on 7 December 2020. With the support of Paula Risikko Matias Marttinen, Parliament has proposed to adopt a statement of objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u22	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u23	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 December 2020. In the debate Ville With the support of Riikka Slunga-Poutsalo, Ms Matias Marttinen has tabled six motions for statements under protest 2 and Päivi Räsänen, supported by Sari Tanus, has made four statements under protest 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u24	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided. Ville Vähämäki's proposal and Päivi Räsänen's proposal 4 are of the same content, so they will be voted on together against Matias Marttinen's proposal 3 on the same subject and then against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u25	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 10/2020 vp. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 December 2020. A statement on the report will now be decided. In the debate, Mauri Peltokangas, supported by Jukka Mäkynen, has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u26	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SIVM 16/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u27	Mr President! The aim of the government proposal is therefore to prepare for the possible need to implement education through exceptional arrangements as a result of the continuation of the corona epidemic. This is a continuation of previous laws. The aim is to ensure the right of pupils to education, even if it cannot be organised in accordance with the rules for normal situations because of a decision taken under the Act on communicable diseases. The Education Committee considers it very necessary that the education providers referred to in the Basic Education Act and the European School of Helsinki may also resort to exceptional teaching arrangements in order to prevent the spread of the corona virus after the expiry of Article 20a of the current Basic Education Act and Article 8a of the Helsinki European School Act and as the coronavirus epidemic continues. It is good that the draft law will allow for a response to communicable diseases in a manner that is appropriate to the local situation. The committee considers that Parliament's proposal has carefully assessed the legal conditions for moving away from the normal legal framework to the organisation of education. In preparing the Government's proposal, the experiences of the exceptional arrangements that began in spring 2020 have been well exploited. In its opinion on a proposal from the government, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the legislative proposals may be dealt with in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted. However, in its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs draws attention to the need to ensure that the right to basic education is implemented equally and as fully as possible even during exceptional teaching arrangements. The committee supports the extension of the provisions as proposed until the end of the academic year 2020-2021 until 31.7.21. So this was our position. So a school year would go like that, and then in July this law would end at this point. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Education considers that the Government's proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the adoption of legislative proposals in the government proposal with the following comments and amendments: First of all, as regards the necessity of distance education: The aim of the proposal is to minimise restrictions on pupils' rights to education and related support measures under the Basic Education Act. The Committee considers it essential that compulsory education should be organised primarily in the form of local education, and considers it necessary for both 1 and 2. the requirement contained in the draft law that the transition to extraordinary teaching arrangements should be based on the fulfilment of the necessity requirement. In addition to the decision to close the premises under Article 58 of the Act on communicable diseases, distance learning should not be transferred to remote education in the interests of certainty, but should be subject to the information provided by the organiser based on the assessment that it is not safe to organise education in a normal way and that distance learning is necessary. The teacher must evaluate all possible alternative means of organising education as local education, which means that the transition to distance education is a last resort. Then there is a copy of the free school meal: Referring to its previous report 8/2020, the committee welcomes the fact that the proposed legislation, together with its explanatory statement, clearly highlights the student's right to a free daily school meal. The obligation to provide meals has been comprehensively discussed in the detailed explanatory statement of the Government’s proposal, including the possibility for the teacher to provide a food bag instead of a prepared meal to a non-contributory student, if the guardians agree. The committee considers this proposal to be appropriate because the local conditions and possibilities for transporting or picking up meals, such as the distance of pupils' homes and access to school, vary considerably. The Committee stresses that decisions on the provision of a school meal must also be made in the best interests of the child. Then a few words on student care and support for learning: In the spring of 2020, support for learning and schooling and student care were implemented in different ways. In many municipalities, the provision of intensified and specific support and school health services was limited, even though the need for support was seen to increase during the spring. In some municipalities, there were virtually no interruptions in student care, while in some municipalities new ways of working in student care were rapidly developed and the connection with other services for children and families in the municipality even intensified. Referring to its previous report 8/2020, the Committee stresses that support for learning and student care must continue during exceptional educational arrangements in line with the needs of pupils and on an equal footing. It is also necessary to plan the implementation of student care services during exceptional arrangements in advance. It is also important to take into account the whole of student care, both individual and community care and all its services, such as school curator and school psychologist services and school health care. We are also dealing with the situation in this report about the possibilities of organising teaching differently in certain situations. We had a debate about the fact that if legislation allowed vulnerable pupils to move to education by means of distance learning at the request of the guardian, the obligation of the guardian under Article 26(2) of the Basic Education Act to ensure that compulsory education is completed would be emphasised. We had a lot of discussion about this, and if you want to take a look at it, this report will be more specific because there were a few two aspects here, whether this should be possible, that if there is, for example, a member of a high-risk group at home, then on that basis, could one of the family members be transferred to distance learning. We then decided to stick to this government proposal, however, and here we have a justification for it. There is also talk of governance and decision-making. Then a very important paragraph in this report is about hearing children. A few words on this point: ‘In its earlier report 8/20,the committee stressed the need to clarify and take account of the views of The Ministry of Education and Culture has carried out a national online survey for children, which has studied the experiences of pupils in basic education during spring and early autumn 2020. The implementation of the questionnaire and the relatively large number of replies, over 58,000, show that even a relatively short time frame can be used to carry out such surveys. However, the committee draws attention to the fact that the proposal does not indicate how the survey results have been used as part of the preparation of the draft law. When surveys are carried out for children, it is also good to make use of the results and to make a statement — including for children — on how children’s views have been taken into account.” In other words, we drew attention to the fact that, first of all, the hearing of children needs to be developed all the time and increased. That is what we have been thinking about and thinking about as a model for Parliament. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs is putting forward a proposal for this during the spring, but in this context we simply said that we did not think that there was enough use of these results, or at least it was not clearly visible. As regards the follow-up, we further stated: ‘The opinion of the Constitutional Law Committee of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs18considers it The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers it essential that information and experience be gathered as part of the follow-up process on the implementation of education during the exceptional arrangements and on the problems encountered by the Committee on Education and Rural Development in order to further develop education and related legislation and other guidance.” Finally, the Committee considers it important to strengthen the skills of teachers in the implementation of distance learning and exceptional teaching arrangements through further training and the sharing of good practice. All in all, as chairman of the committee and on behalf of the committee as a whole, I would like to thank the head of the teaching department and the teachers and students for the fact that this spring was such an exercise that there was a lot of learning in it, and not everything went quite as it was in Strömsö, but a lot of success and good experience was gained. This autumn has certainly gone a little better, but we still need to develop in this area too, in this distance learning and distance learning and in those preparations and arrangements, and that is what all the forces, of course, are for teachers, and thank you for what we have done so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u28	Mr President, ärade talman! Vi behandlar nu vöjligheten att övergå till distansundervisning i den grundläggande utbildningen, det vill säga att undervisningsanordnaren genom sitt beslut kan övergå till exceptionella undervisningsarrangemang. Syftet med den bull propositionen är att förebygga spridningen av coronaviruses, lindra de olägenheter det medför samt säkersä att undervisningen enligt lagen om grundläggande utbildning anordnas på ett tryggt stätt. Den raut lagen är en uppföljning på det som vi redan tidigare har beslutat om för den gångna hösten och den träder i kraft 1 januari och pågård till den 31 juli 2021. Här ber jag notera att årtalet är fel i den svenska översättningen av kulturutskottets betankande. Det är bra att lagförslaget gör det öjligt att reagera på smittoläget lokalt för att övergå, men man ska komba ihåg att det är siista öjliga åtgård, att då övergå till distansundervisning. I det aika nya förslaget finns många skrivningar om — och vi har också i betankandet tagit fram det — i hurdana situationer det är motiverat. Till exempel om alla andra i en classic är i distansuvising och det finns en elev kvar, kanske det då är motiverat i sådana lägen att man övergård till distans också för den personen. Vi har också lyft upp llärna och det viktiga jobb man har gjort där och behovet av fortbildning. I det förslag som finns nu finns också tydligare skrivningar kring elvens rätt till avgiftsfri daglig skolmåltid. Utbildningsanordnaren kan i fortsättningen ha öjlighet att också ge en så kallad komasse med färdig måltid om vårdnadshavaren så tycker, och det här tycker jag är wastebra. Det fanns oika tolkningar under den raust men det gäller att se smidigt rauh och att det är praktiskt öjligt, för vi har långa avstånd också i Svenskfinland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u29	Mr President! This government proposal does indeed extend the provisions which have already been dealt with here in Parliament. Here are a few comments on this proposal, which will allow the organiser of education to switch to these exceptional teaching arrangements by decision. This committee’s report has drawn close attention to the fact that at the moment the way in which this decision is taken in municipalities varies a great deal, and here it is recorded: ‘The committee considers it important that,together with the Ministry of Education and Culture,the National Board of Education prepares,in an expert consultation,the use of a model decision by educationorganisers in the course of the transition to exceptional teaching arrangements. “ I think this is an important issue that has been raised in committee when the National Board of Education and the Ministry of Education has also been obliged to act here, because we must remember that we have a lot of small municipalities in Finland where the monitoring of matters and the monitoring of recent legal developments may not necessarily be quite that level. If you think about it, there were quite a lot of decisions in the municipalities last spring, for example, regarding the transfer of powers to the municipal government or to the mayor, who appealed to a section of the Emergency Act that was actually not activated at all by Parliament, and when one municipality had come up with the basis for this, then the copy-past it was drawn from one municipality to another. Next spring, we may have quite a situation in many municipalities where the inspection committees will have to point out that you certainly have a sensible decision but have been made on the wrong grounds. Therefore, when these decision-making processes are considered in small municipalities, I think it is important that the ministry becomes some kind of sabluk to the fact that when the legal framework conditions are sought, then this and this way, these and these issues should be taken into account. Well, then, as in the past, this report has also raised this free school meal and student care and support for learning. These have been the things that have certainly been carried out in some different ways in the municipalities during this period of distance education, and perhaps they have also had the most points to make. This hearing of children, which has been raised here, is also a very important issue, and so is what the committee has finally raised, namely that by continuing training and sharing good practices among teachers, these situations could be further reinforced where distance and contact teaching have to be rotated, so that teachers really can organise their own work in such a way that the same teaching does not create a double workload. These comments by the committee are, of course, very welcome and important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u30	Mr President! Due to the disease situation associated with the Covid-19 epidemic, it has also proved necessary to extend the possibility of extraordinary teaching arrangements for the next spring semester 2021. The purpose of this proposal is therefore to prevent the spread of the corona virus, to mitigate its disadvantages and, above all, to ensure the safe provision of education to children and young people in accordance with the Basic Education Act. Thus, by decision, the teacher could move on to the extraordinary teaching arrangements that we had already experienced in the spring. We are therefore preparing for the possible need for further training through exceptional arrangements as a result of the epidemic. Of course, the most important objective — the most important one — is to ensure the right of pupils to education, even when the decision taken under the Act on communicable diseases makes it impossible to organise it in a normal way. It is, of course, very necessary that extraordinary teaching arrangements can continue to be established if the epidemic situation so requires, and it is good, of course, that we have now been able to draw on the experiences of the spring exceptional arrangements – we are already a little more prepared in these areas. The most important thing, however, is to bear in mind the same thing that the Constitutional Committee also drew attention to in its own opinion: that everyone's right to basic education is achieved equally and as fully as possible, even during exceptional teaching arrangements. This is the most important thing. It should be remembered. In the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy, we considered it absolutely essential that the teaching of those who were under compulsory education should take place primarily as local education. Exceptional educational arrangements should only be introduced where this is necessary under the Act on communicable diseases. Remote education should not be taken as a precaution. Remote instruction is always a last resort. Mr President! It is important that teachers' skills in the implementation of distance learning and exceptional teaching arrangements are strengthened through further training and the sharing of good practices. In this connection, the Finnish National Board of Education has made very good guidelines, which can be found on its website. So, there's a lot of good material gathered in this connection. I would also like to say, as other Members have said here, that when we use the rotation of distance and local education in many schools — and this is a good arrangement — we must ensure that this arrangement does not result in the teacher having to do, in a way, double the work to provide the same teaching. Even teachers, even though they can almost perform miracles, cannot be required to teach doubles. This is a good lesson for the organizers to remember. Mr President! It is very good that children have now been given the opportunity to express their opinion in the preparation of this government proposal. Students have a wide range of experiences, including what happened during distance education in the spring. Many liked it, but there were also many difficulties. In other words, the Ministry of Education and Culture carried out a national online survey for children, which then examined the experiences of students in basic education during spring and early autumn 2020 and, indeed, as has already been mentioned here, there were over 58,000 responses, and this shows that even on a very short time, these opinions can be found out. But I would also like to say here, to which the standard community also drew attention, that this proposal does not show how these questionnaires have been used as part of the preparation of the draft law, and now there is a slight downside to this. I would like to draw serious attention to the need for children and young people to be consulted in the drafting of the law, and when these enquiries are then carried out for children, we must also ensure that these results are used. And then it must also be made clear to the children how these views have been taken into account. This is an extremely important issue, and I hope – and I very much want to say it from the toilet in this Chamber – that in the drafting of the law more generally, in the spirit of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, more attention will be paid to this matter: let us find out the opinions of children and young people, take them into account in the drafting of the law, and let us tell the children and young people how their opinions have been heard and how they have been implemented. This is an extremely important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u31	Mr President! Mr Risikko has already opened this motion himself in his own speech to a large extent. I would like to raise one important point, namely the hearing of children, which has already been raised by previous speakers. As is clear from this report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, it is great and very important that when preparing the proposal, children were given the opportunity to be heard and to express their own opinion. There is a great deal of talk about the importance of hearing children on matters relating to them, and there has been a long talk, and in this case there has also been a real delivery and consultation of children. However, the report draws attention to the use of the results of the survey. That is what Mr Risikko and others have already talked about. The Committee notes very well that when surveys are carried out on children, it is also good to take care to make use of the results and also to explain to the children how their views have actually been taken into account. I too very much hope that children will be heard more and that the results will also be used. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u32	Mr President! This proposal is necessary and I thank the Committee on Culture and Education for a very good report. I'll pay attention to a few things. Firstly, for a free school meal: in spring, the practices of this relationship in different municipalities and schools were quite confusing, despite the fact that we already have a clear right to free school meals in the legislation. In some municipalities this food bag was only offered to families with little means, in some municipalities there was no school meal, and in some municipalities there was access to school facilities to eat, and in others, food bags were distributed to all willing ones. It is good that this has now been clarified, because it is important to hold on to this free school meal in a comprehensive manner, regardless of the level of income. The second question then concerns student care and support for learning. Here too, last spring, valuable experience was gained as to how it was not automatically mastered or organised, and it is good that special attention has now been paid to this too. In his speech, President Risikko raised the question of a possible solution to the situation of a member of the student’s family at risk to move to remote education. This is indeed a problematic issue because, on the one hand, every child has the right to receive basic education as local education and cannot be restricted for other reasons, but, on the other hand, we have those difficult situations in practice. For example, I have in mind a family in which one of the children suffers from leukemia, a lack of defence due to treatment measures, and there was indeed a fear of possible exposure to corona in that family. Other infectious diseases, such as influenza, have been invoked here, but the situation is different because there is a vaccine that protects those other family members.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u33	Mr President! This is a bill seeking to extend the possibility that pupils can be transferred to distance education under the Basic Education Act. This proposal is necessary, but it also puts the municipalities in a challenging situation. After all, according to the Act on communicable diseases, municipalities have the right and obligation to close school premises or municipal premises in the event of a widespread infectious disease such as corona virus. In that case, it is considered necessary to prevent the spread of infectious disease, and then the transfer to remote education must be based on necessity. On the other hand, it has been considered that a fundamental right is to be weighed between what is a stronger right, the student’s right to contact education or the fact that the student’s right to it can be limited by reason other than that of his or her own health, for example, if it is the situation described by Mr Räsänen, namely that a member of the family is a member of a risk group. Of course, that poses a challenge to the weighing situation. On the other hand, this means of transferring pupils to remote education should not be used proactively either. Well, we already know how the corona virus behaves. It behaves in such a way that, when the levels of infection are highest, the need for hospitalisation and intensive care will only reach the highest level in a few weeks, even five weeks, when the only way to reduce and minimise further infections, as it were through schools, is to use tele-teaching in anticipation. And here I think it is going to be a very difficult situation when these decisions are taken in municipal bodies. Then it is as if we have to weigh what is the moment when we can still influence the fact that schools are not the places where infections occur — and all other means, such as facial masks, are in place where they can be used as it were, and now that interpretation has been that the limit goes about in the case of upper secondary school — and then again, what is the point where action must be taken to protect our risk groups, those who need hospital care? And this is not easy to weigh, especially when municipalities do not have the same kind of expertise available in those institutions as, for example, the Government has in making such decisions. I personally feel, when I also chair the City Board, that it is quite difficult to make a decision by its body to move to remote education, especially when there are significant schools, and whether such a decision needs to be taken at the same time, for example, in the case of a whole municipality. Well, now we have resolved it so that the power of decision has been delegated so that the municipal official, in this case the head of office, can take that decision. I just wanted to open up the situation, Mr President, which, in the municipalities involved in this law, is being created, and perhaps I also find it challenging in that sense. And I am well aware that, for example, in the capital region, it has been considered for the time being that participation in contact education is, as is still the case in this bill, always the student's right and limitation is, as it were, a last resort in the context of an epidemic. Mr President! What worries me is that when Christmas approaches, even though the seriousness of the situation is often reasonably well understood, I believe that many families would like to see close relatives. And that is why we need to think very seriously about the need for further restrictions on contacts and, for example, the need to move further to remote education before Christmas in order to protect risk groups and older people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u34	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a law on the temporary amendment of the Basic Education Act and the Helsinki European School Act: Koronavirus continues to spread throughout Finland, and it is therefore extremely important that extraordinary teaching arrangements continue throughout the spring semester. High levels of corona exposure have been found in schools, so the best way to protect pupils and school staff is to change the laws temporarily so that distance learning can continue as necessary and contacts between pupils and teaching and other personnel can be minimised. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the teachers and parents and the entire school community. There is one excellent point in the report which Mr Eloranta also mentioned, namely that ‘in the case of distance and close-to-teaching, there must be no provision to ensure that the teacher does not become a double-teacher’. This one needs to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u35	Mr President! This presentation once again prepares for distance education, and, as has been said many times here, it has been learned from the experiences of spring. Children are at the heart of this presentation, including special children, disabled children and those who need more attention and help. So there really is a chance that the teacher may have to stretch and teach twice in the same way to different children, and this burden must be taken into account at this point. And as the children are at the centre, I would like to see teachers and other school staff put in this centre as well. I see that during the last spring the teachers stretched enormously, the rest of the staff stretched enormously during the crisis, and now again, of course, we are looking at the child, because the rights of the child are absolutely paramount and we are committed to them. However, I would like to send out a message from this Parliament's podium in the direction of the labour market that the people in the front line who have kept this society on their feet during this year have been very underprivileged, constantly, and their compensations, even financially, seem to be constantly behind some stone. I would therefore like the labour market to be considered now, for the sake of certainty and for the future, how such people could be rewarded by various means and encouraged to continue this excellent work that they have done. I know that both in the care sector and in the education sector, it has been really, really on the card. It's a good show, and it's really preparing for the future. I hope, therefore, that when you think of a child, as is thought of here, you think of teachers and adults there at school.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u36	Chairman of the committee, representative Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u37	Mr President! Just a few words when we ran out of time there. Let me just say a few brief words about this report. This is the last part that has been mentioned, and indeed the committee notes that ‘in the case of distance and near-teaching, there must be no provision to ensure that the teacher does not become double-teacher’. And the second was a little more specific when Mr Räsänen drew attention to the situation of a member of the family at risk and how to consider a child who is hoped to remain in remote education. ‘In view of the situation of a family member belonging to the school risk group, the task of transferring to However, the implementation of this is not a problem-free one. This provision allows teaching to be organised in part, contrary to and on the basis of the Basic Education Act, where justified by reasons relating to the student’s own health. The amendment of the provision in order to enable distance learning as indicated above would change the basic principle of the provision that it is for the student himself to organise teaching differently.’ And really here, which was taken into account in this situation of interest rates, that would be precisely the reason for being a member of the family, i.e. a member of the family, or that being a member of the risk group. ‘It should be noted that the conditions for the second organisation of For example, other communicable diseases, such as seasonal flu, may cause a similar need to ask a pupil for distance learning because of being at risk for a family member. The Basic Education Act does not provide for the above situation.’ That is what we are saying here in the report. And in this same breath, I would say in my own opinion that I believe that the basic education law should be viewed from this perspective, that it would be easy to apply it to such situations, something that has now been raised in the expert consultation, for example, and to which Mr Räsänen referred, among other things. In other words, I am very much in favour of us considering in the future and also of the Ministry considering that the basic education law could be amended. I personally also believe that it should be much easier to move to remote education and to allow distance education on a lower threshold than it is at the moment, given that such exceptional conditions are not only a flu wave or a pandemic — such as a fire or water damage or other such a move away from the school. Well, of course we have other organisations, or indeed facilities to transfer children to, but let's take these, for example, which I myself have wondered, that when we have such situations, when we study foreign languages and groups do not become full, we could use distance learning to fill groups and thus also new languages for teaching. But there are other situations of this kind, and personally I really am in favour of a slightly new assessment of this. This corona has taught us a great deal in this field too. But then, on the whole, Mr President, about this corona situation. I am particularly concerned about contacting all young people, children and young people in schools here in Uusimaa and the Helsinki region — I now appeal to all young people, children and young people to take care of that hygiene, take care of safety intervals and wear masks. The instructions given are worth really using now, because even if you feel that you are not exposed, you may still be exposed to the corona virus, and then you may also be a plaintiff for those at risk. In that sense, I attach great importance to the contacts that have now been made here in Parliament from that health care side. It is now worth developing different practices to ensure that this information moves, and the right information moves, there among young people and then is followed, and that we have information available that everyone understands in the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u38	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SIVM 17/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Let's go to the general discussion. — Chairman of the Committee, represented by Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u39	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the School Travel Support Act temporarily due to restrictions on covid-19 and the exceptional educational arrangements resulting therefrom. In order to ensure support for school travel costs for students, it is proposed to add an exceptional provision to the School Travel Support Act, temporarily making the conditions for granting school travel support more flexible. The proposal provides for the temporary inclusion of a new Article 3b of the School Travel Assistance Act, which would allow for a derogation from the conditions for the number and timing of school trips provided for in Article 3(3) of the current School Travel Assistance Act where the number of daily school trips by students has decreased due to changes in teaching arrangements related to the covid-19 epidemic. The proposed provision will ensure that the student eligible for school travel allowance can be granted school travel aid or the payment of the school travel allowance that has been abolished can be continued more flexibly if the number of student's daily school trips has decreased due to the educational arrangements resulting from the coronavirus epidemic. There will be no additional costs for students if the journey between home and educational institution is irregular and is due to prolonged changes in teaching arrangements in connection with the corona virus epidemic. Due to the Corona virus epidemic in autumn 2020, the total amount of school travel aid paid by the end of October is approximately EUR 900000 lower than in the corresponding period of 2019. According to the estimate received from Kela, cost savings for the entire autumn semester 2020 compared to the autumn semester 2019 total approximately EUR 2 million. In October 2020 alone, school travel support expenditure has been EUR 644,000 less than in October 2019. Without a legislative amendment, school travel support expenditure will therefore be below the budgeted level. The proposal does not increase government support expenditure on school travel, as only students who would otherwise have received school travel support if the study conditions continued in normal circumstances. Furthermore, the proposal has no significant impact on the implementation of school travel support in Kela. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Education considers that the Government's proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the adoption of the draft law contained in the government proposal without amendment. With these condescending words: this is a very good performance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u40	Mr President! It is good that there is also a temporary amendment to the School Travel Support Act because of the restrictions on the covid epidemic and the exceptional educational arrangements resulting therefrom. The aim is therefore to make the conditions for granting school travel aid more flexible on a temporary basis, as the chairman of the committee has already said. Indeed, according to this proposal, a student eligible for school travel allowance would be required to have less than the current law, i.e. only the eight or more journeys per month eligible for school travel aid if the number of school trips has decreased due to the epidemic. This provision will, of course, ensure that, if a child or young person is eligible for school travel aid, he or she may be eligible for school travel aid or, if the school travel allowance has been abolished, it can be continued more flexibly if the number of school trips has actually decreased due to these exceptional arrangements. In other words, this does not result in additional costs for the student if it is irregular to travel between school and home due to this corona virus epidemic — i.e. ‘in a series of corona virus laws’. It's a small thing, but it's important to the people it touches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u41	Mr President! It is indeed a rather special day when good legislative proposals come in a row. It is important to ensure that the study activities can be carried out as safely as possible and in accordance with current recommendations related to coronavirus pandemic. Our legislation makes it possible to organise education in different forms, so it is also important to secure student school travel support in exceptional circumstances so that students can easily move to remote education, while taking into account the necessary need for local education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u42	Mr President! Just for all these interest rates, which is being presented here once again: it just reminds me of this experience that I have been in this house, that perhaps it would be good for us to have some flexibility in our laws. For example, if you think of Kela, Kela would then have the opportunity to deal flexibly with these matters, not to have to change the law first, and then to be brought simply out of the interest rate when there may be other such situations. I understand very well, too, that laws must always be exaggerate, that they are fair and that there is equality in their implementation, but nevertheless I would say that perhaps this has also taught us decision-makers and legislators a little bit about taking into account a few different situations when we do these laws here, because I think it would be the rational action — when life is unpredictable and there are different situations in people’s lives — it would also give the executive a few different freedoms, of course, given that equality remains. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u43	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the Committee on Culture for a good proposal and thank you to the Committee on Culture for your excellent work. Such reforms in this situation are very welcome. This has clearly been considered in depth in what has been done. I'm very grateful. And when there is a place for thanksgiving, it is also good to say it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u44	Mr President! Indeed, thank you to the committee for a good proposal and for the clarifications. President-in-Office of the Committee, Mr Risikko has hit the nail, because the situation is that flexibility in this area is needed even under normal circumstances. Many times we have our citizens giving feedback that you have no brains in the job when it comes to this sort of thing. Often it is because of the fact that there has been such a law, and perhaps too much has been asked for, perhaps, that there should be no abuse or the like. Sometimes their interpretations and implementation become a little challenging and even a little ridiculous decisions. Of course, it would be good to see that, even under normal circumstances, legislation would make sense of such elements, which, in this proposal too, are now the case because of the special situation caused by the pandemic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u45	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, TaVM 36/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Let's go to the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u46	Mr President! Briefly on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs It was unanimous, and this is something very small but important for some companies. This is about the implementation of restaurant subsidies. And what does this show do? Although it is written in such a complex way that it is difficult to understand, it will significantly ease the reporting burden of small nutritious companies on the basis of which they have received subsidies. In other words, this facilitates the reporting obligations of the accounts which were laid down in the original proposal for support for restaurants as conditions for obtaining the aid and for carrying out ex post controls. However, this does not alter the criteria for this aid in any way and there is no reason to think that it would be misused, since the restaurants that have received the aid have applied for aid before they have known the content of this proposal and that such a proposal would be made in general. This can therefore be intuitively compared to the fact that, as in the old tax returns, various deductions were made and it was known that receipts had to be presented if necessary, so now the law would be laid down that no receipts had to be presented, but most had saved the receipts because they knew that such an obligation existed. This is so briefly and intuitively about what the content of this is. Mr President! The report was unanimous. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u47	Thank you to the chairman of the committee, Mr Vartiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u48	The 16th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 37/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Presentation by Mr Vartiainen, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u49	Mr President! A few words on this report, which is also unanimous. In this case, however, the impact and purpose of this legislation is much more difficult to assess and, in any event, is based on guesses and assumptions, which is why a few words more about this. I mean, during this epidemic at the turn of the year... [The President : I am sorry, Mr Vartiainen, when you speak in this speaking room,you can take a look at the face of your mask,to the effect that ] Well, this had been laid down until this turn of the year, and now with this new proposal we will continue to do so due to this epidemic until the end of September next year. The idea here has been that, when many households and businesses are likely to face payment difficulties during an epidemic, it is tried to ease the situation of such households and businesses by imposing that the interest rate at which additional credit is to be taken in such a situation would not exceed 10%. Well, this is a good idea, but at the same time we must honestly admit, as this report also states very clearly, that we do not have very good knowledge of whether this has worked as intended. Of course, the credit database of unsecured credit statistics shows this legislation so that these unsecured loans under the former act, up to a maximum of 20%, have disappeared to a significant extent and some of them are present at 10%. On the other hand, we do not know whether this really means that someone who otherwise received 20% of credit has actually received 10% now, and at least the leading economic and financial professors who assessed this issue think that this may be a matter of large or total exclusion of some households from the credit market, i.e. no credit, and the group of people who are now receiving unsecured credits is quite different and may be composed of those who would have already obtained credit at this rate of less than 10%. Well, this does not mean that what has been laid down so far is unacceptable, but it must be assessed against this uncertainty. So we don't know much. The fact that some households are now completely deprived of the credit they want is something that certainly has both positive and negative content. And one positive element could be that — if we here in Parliament adopt some kind of patriotic or maternalist idea of patronizing people to a better life contrary to their own aspirations — these household cats may have people in debt spirals who, for example, are unable to control their own finances because of gambling addiction or addiction to drugs or for some other reason. This consultation highlighted the fact that a significant part of this so-called People who become customers of the Guarantee Fund are really the most important reason for the problems they have encountered are gambling debts. This is very important information if we are also thinking of our anti-game regulations in this Chamber. On the other hand, it is also certain that there are households for whom it would be good if they received credit, even if its interest rate exceeded 10 % and was less than 20 %. For example, there are households with old credits at, say, 60 or 40 per cent, and they might be able to have some kind of restructuring at, say, 15 per cent, but no longer at 10. And for some households, when it comes to small loans where the amounts of euro are not large, these unsecured loans can be a good way forward. So this probably also has a welfare cost. And in these cases, households may be forced to resort to other means or be subject to enforcement. Some have sought credit from foreign financial institutions, some have even been subject to fraud, but in quantitative terms we do not know much about these.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u50	Mr President! Of these, more than 10 percent, about 20 percent of interest rates are often referred to as a quick lever, even though we should actually be talking about a loan shark. I do not give any more of these good and bad speeches, but I have to address the chairman of the committee so much that if someone does not currently receive less than 10% of the funding, then the alarm bells will have to ring, and that is the people who are probably unable to take care of their own money if they have to take up 20% interest. I therefore see it as a fact that perhaps we will then help them more than those who could have interest rates of 40%. Indeed, I have already made a proposal for this in the spring, and it appears to be in the middle of it, and now, indeed, for the second time that this is already being carried on, it is easy for everyone here to see that this is perhaps a good thing to be a permanent practice, because we have a good chance of doing so, and it is unlikely that we will make terrible decisions for the people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u51	Mr President! Thank you for your thanks: I want to thank the government for this bill. The proposal would extend the temporary 10% interest rate cap on credit covered by the Consumer Credit Chapter of the Consumer Protection Act, except for commodity-linked credit. Furthermore, in order to ensure the effectiveness of interest rate cap regulation, the fees charged for credit should not be increased during the regulatory period. While debt in itself does not mean difficulties in performing the obligations, it must be remembered that very many people already have a default in Finland, and debt over debt is by no means a solution. It is completely intolerable that the debt of the indebted person should be given more debt at absolutely shocking interest rates. This simply has to stop. Mr President! The second wave of the Corona virus epidemic has begun and new financial measures have had to be taken. It seems obvious that the corona virus will be reflected in the everyday life and economy of the consumer, at least for a long time next year. As a result, it would also be necessary for the law to remain in force for several months and, where possible, with as short a time as possible between the expiry of the provisional law and possible new regulatory instruments. As a result, it is proposed that the provisional law should be in force at 30. Until 21 September. Personally, I would be willing to delete that date and make the law permanent. I very much hope that the government will seriously consider this alternative. I would also like to mention that all speed levers and the like could, for my part, be completely removed. If we do not have enough of this kind of solution, I would nevertheless like, as I mentioned, to see the proposal for a ceiling on interest rates to be permanent. For example, Mr Laakso, as he has just mentioned, has made an excellent legislative initiative on this issue, which I absolutely support. Mr President! I would also like to say at this end that I have a certain role to play as an employer, and I will continue to do so: after all, even the employer cannot extend the employee's period of time and continue all the time for no serious reason. I would like to take a look at the same thing for you, Mr Government: it should not be possible to continue with such a good draft law on a fixed-term basis without a serious reason, but should be made permanent. Human vulnerability must never be exploited. And this is the reason why this bill should also be made permanent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u52	Mr President! For lack of time, I did not comment on this bill by Mr Laakso, which states that this should also be extended to these commodity-linked credits, which are thus generated by different credit cards when people acquire goods and services. This has been seriously assessed — and this has certainly not been overlooked — but the conclusion was that, first of all, they are very different in legal terms because they involve the solidarity of the creditor and its supplier of goods or services with regard to the situation. In addition, in this situation they could have really upset those pay-per-views that households have well adapted to and are an integral part of the household’s way of working. So after careful consideration, we ended up rejecting this bill. However, it is worth recalling that these cases, as they are called, are often quite small in euros. If there is a short-term debt of EUR 1000, then 20% of it will be EUR 200, and if you have to go into enforcement when you no longer receive additional credit, or if you have to use this so-called pawn shop, the amount of the euro may then actually be higher. So whenever legal recovery occurs, the costs may be higher, and this has also been one of the key arguments for not going downhill to regulate the interest rate well. This legislation may have already resulted in some trainers then having to take out larger unsecured credits than they would otherwise have taken up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u53	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Let's go to the general discussion. — First signatory of the bill, Mr Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u54	Mr President! In this bill,I propose to amend Article 95a of the Income Tax Act,so that the sole resident taxpayer may also The aim is to equalise the state of justice by comparing the place of study with the place of employment in respect of the right to tax deduction in the place of work. According to Article 95a(1) of the Income Tax Act, the deduction of work dwellings is granted The cost of obtaining the income of the taxable person shall be reduced by EUR 450 for each full calendar month in which he or she has had two dwellings. However, the deduction shall not exceed the amount corresponding to the rent paid by the taxable person for the dwelling. The granting of the reduction requires that the permanent dwelling is located at a distance of more than 100 km from the dwelling and the actual place of employment for which the dwelling was acquired. According to Article 95a(2) of the Income Tax Mr President! According to Statistics Finland's latest statistics, more than half of students in Finland work continuously or periodically. Employment is most common in university and polytechnic studies. In addition to studies, 56 per cent of university students have an employment relationship and 58 per cent of polytechnic students have an employment relationship. 53 per cent of students in vocational education work alongside studies. A survey based on extensive data from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has examined the employment and its impact during studies. According to the study, from the employer’s point of view, university students are flexible and desirable reserve labour. The student can easily return to studies as the employment situation deteriorates. Students work during holiday periods, at the end of studies, regularly or for a short period of time. Nearly 70 per cent of respondents had worked in their field of study. If a student works in another locality, he or she must have an apartment in addition to his or her place of work. Just as a single person has a need to return from his work home to a permanent dwelling to carry out his other actual work, so the student also has an equal need to return from his work home to attend to his studies. Employment during studies is common and socially important and has a large positive social impact. That is why this issue must also be adequately taken into account in legislation. In addition to studies, a person working in another locality can, on good grounds, be treated as a taxable person who has a permanent dwelling in addition to his or her dwelling because of the location of another actual job. The amendment I propose to that legislative text — the legislative text would have been amended to read as follows: ‘95a§ deduction of work dwellings. Under the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, the taxable person shall also be granted a reduction in the amount of work dwelling if, in addition to the dwelling in which he is employed, the taxable person has a permanent dwelling because of the location of another actual job or place of study, even if the taxable person resides alone in his permanent dwelling.’ — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u55	Honorable Speaker! I am trying to follow these proposed changes to the tax laws, and perhaps that is why I am in the tax section, and this will then come to the Committee on Finance. That was one of the reasons why I wanted to follow this presentation by Mr Juuso. The second reason is that Mr Juuso is very familiar with this issue, and his arguments are good in that I recommend everyone to look at them. This reduction in work housing was introduced as early as 2008 and was intended to support labour mobility and facilitate the matching of labour demand and supply. This is a very welcome proposal, and good arguments have just been heard. Of course, Finland is a country of long distances — as Mr Juuso knows — where universities and colleges in particular are located only in a few places where distances are very long. There has been a lot of talk here about improving education in Finland, but from this point of view the situation may also be that the student has an apartment in his or her municipality of residence and gets a place of study in another city, a larger city, far from his or her own municipality of residence. In the current situation, the student must either pay the full amount for two apartments or move permanently to a study place or even not receive a study place. However, the intention would certainly be to keep the whole country inhabited, and this tax deductibility for the student would be a good hand for many deprived communities and other sparsely populated regions, which are already in difficulty in maintaining a young educated population in their own municipality. It is true that keeping taxation simple is desirable and new tax subsidies are contrary to this principle. However, the fact is that this deduction has already been enshrined in the law, this has been in place for 12 years, and this bill by Mr Juuso would only make it more equal between regular workers and those who work alongside studies. The situation is also difficult in the sense that this does not apply to all students in general, so direct public support would be a much more challenging option. This proposal would certainly be good for the positive employment and economic development that will be urgently needed after the crisis period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-09-ps-161.u56	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Juuso has found that there is a clear need for correction for those who work alongside studying. And it is absolutely necessary to support this type of activity, because they are of great importance to society, and in any case, it inspires us to study when we are not so strict. Indeed, we must thank Mr Juuso for his precise and attentive attention and for taking forward this bill. — — — — Thank you.
