ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Now, on the basis of the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, YmVM 1/2020, the position on the report will be decided. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 25 February 2020. In the debate, Mr Mauri Peltokangas, with the support of Mr Veikko Vallin, has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u2	The 3rd item of the agenda is the Prime Minister's announcement of the Finnish EU Presidency. Following the speech by Prime Minister Sanna Marin, I will give answers in the order I have considered. Answers are reserved by V-button. An hour and a half is reserved for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u3	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! This year will be the 25th anniversary of Finland’s accession to the European Union. During that time we have had the honour of holding the Presidency of the Council of the European Union three times. In 1999, we were a new Member State which was able to influence the development of the Union's internal and judicial affairs in particular. In 2006, we had already experienced the presidency, but in a new situation when the number of members of the Union had increased from 15 to 25 Member States. The third presidency that has been experienced has again hit a different time in the European Union. Finland’s third EU Presidency, which ended at the end of the year, was the first in the course of the Lisbon Treaty. This means, firstly, that the Union has a High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and a permanent President of the European Council, and, secondly, that the European Parliament has a greater role to play in the decision-making of the Union. The importance of this was highlighted during the Finnish Presidency, as it coincided with an institutional artistic point. After all, our presidency was brought forward by half a year following the British Brexit referendum and we took the Council's lead at a time when the new European Parliament was organising and the old Commission was withdrawing. The start of the new Commission was delayed by one month from November to early December, the last month of our Presidency. In addition, the European Council received a new permanent President when Charles Michel, a Belgian, took up his duties at the beginning of December. However, we were able to turn this challenging moment to our advantage: since there were fewer legislative proposals on the table than other presidencies, we were able to focus on future-driven discussions in the Council. We were the first presidency to put into practice the new EU strategic programme adopted by the European Council in June 2019. From these discussions on the future, we received important steps for the new Commission, such as sustainable growth, the welfare economy and equality. We are now beginning to see that the plans of the new Commission are largely in line with our objectives. In this context, I would particularly like to mention the Commission's communications on the European Green Development Programme and on a strong social Europe in order to achieve fair transitions. Mr President! Our Presidency’s theme was ‘Sustainable Europe — A Sustainable Future’. Sustainability was reflected both in content and in issues such as the promotion of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and as a major theme in the organisation of meetings and concrete actions. A key achievement in all sectors of activity was the negotiation box for the EU's future Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for the years 21 to 27, which was submitted by Finland to the Member States and the institutions in December. The great work carried out under the leadership of the European Minister is reflected in the fact that, in the negotiations held at the end of last week, the negotiating box prepared by Finland is very much the basis on which the President-in-Office of the Council, Charles Michel, rests his own proposal. Negotiations continue, but the Finnish proposal is proving to be a balanced compromise — whatever we meant it to be. Mr President! The themes of the Finnish Presidency had been prepared in good time among all parliamentary groups on a parliamentary basis. I would like to thank all parliamentary groups and parties for their cooperation. During the negotiations on the Government Programme, we specified the themes so that our Presidency eventually had four priorities. Firstly, the theme was common values and the rule of law as the cornerstone of EU action: under the leadership of Finland, the Union stepped up its efforts to ensure the rule of law and, in particular, to prevent the problems associated with it. Mr Tuppurainen, the Minister for European Affairs, will soon give a more detailed account of this theme, but I would like to highlight the rule of law mechanism in particular in the financial frameworks. As the country holding the presidency, Finland worked hard to ensure that the Union's spending is strongly linked to respect for the rule of law. The mechanism is still part of the negotiations on the financial framework, so we are not yet fully aware of the outcome. It is clear, however, that without Finland’s strong profile in the field of the rule of law, we would not be so advanced in discussions. Our second theme was a competitive and socially cohesive EU: During the Finnish term, the Council prepared the main messages for sustainable growth and the Presidency's report on the EU strategy for sustainable growth. The main priorities were the development of the internal market, digitalisation and knowledge, research and innovation, and modern industrial policy. In the field of transport, progress was made in legislative matters. For example, agreement was reached with the European Parliament on the mobility package, the energy labelling of tyres and the electronic transport data, and the Council's general approach on rail passengers' rights and the proposal to promote TEN-T. During its Presidency, Finland launched a debate at EU level on a mutually supportive relationship between the economy and the well-being of people. The Council's conclusions on the welfare economy call on the Commission to present a long-term strategy to the EU based on the concept of a welfare economy with the aim of ensuring that the EU becomes the most competitive and socially neutral climate economy in the world. The conclusions on gender equality set out priorities for the preparation of the Commission's future strategy for gender equality, with emphasis on gender mainstreaming, in particular in economic policy and budgeting. Finland also organised the first joint meeting of finance and education ministers, the theme of which was the importance of education and knowledge in creating a strong economic base. With regard to the development of economic and monetary union, the proposals for the euro area budgetary instrument were discussed in the Council and were part of the MFF negotiating box we presented. The Council conclusions on the future of the Capital Markets Union were adopted, as well as on the continuation of the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. A political agreement was reached in December on the taxonomy of sustainable financing. Mr President! Perhaps one of the biggest steps forward was to promote the EU's role as a global climate leader: the December European Council confirmed the objective of achieving a climate-neutral Europe by 2050, in line with the Paris Agreement. Finland put the climate on the agenda of all relevant Soviet formations and several informal ministerial meetings. These discussions included a fair transition to a climate-neutral economy and reductions in emissions in the transport and energy sectors, as well as food security and soil carbon sequestration in agriculture. The Council also adopted conclusions which gave a strong signal on the inclusion of the circular economy in the Commission's work programme and on the solutions offered by the circular economy to mitigate climate change and biodiversity degradation. The conclusions were also drawn from the EU's preparations for the UN Convention on Biological Diversity in 2020 as well as from the protection and restoration of world forests. Mr President! Our fourth theme was to guarantee overall safety: Finland’s objective was to strengthen internal and external security and defence cooperation, including the fight against hybrid threats, in order to guarantee the overall security of its citizens. In the fight against hybrid threats, a concrete step forward was the establishment of a horizontal working group to coordinate the work of the Council. As regards cyber security for 5G networks of importance to EU competitiveness, significant progress was made in developing a common EU approach. The Finnish Presidency also supported the High Representative in the implementation of the Common Foreign and Security Policy. Finland presented in the Council the development of a comprehensive EU-Africa partnership, and discussions during the Finnish period paved the way for proposals to develop an EU-Africa partnership in early spring. We also promoted discussions on EU enlargement and the opening of accession negotiations with Albania and North Macedonia. Although no decisions were taken yet, Finland received praise from the Western Balkan countries for its constructive role. In addition, Finland's leadership discussed the development of a comprehensive policy on immigration and asylum, and we were preparing for the reform of the Common European Asylum System for our part. The debate took place, for example, on the reform of the Dublin system. Attention was paid to the need to share responsibility evenly and to support countries under migratory pressure through joint action. The strengthening of the EU's Arctic policy was promoted from different sources of income, in particular at the informal Gymnich meeting of foreign ministers. The conclusions on maritime policy and space also addressed Arctic issues. Mr President! As President, we also wanted to reform the way the Union works and set an example. We managed to reduce the carbon footprint of the Presidency by up to 70% compared to the ordinary Presidency by a well-thought-out number of meetings, concentration of meetings and other sustainable arrangements. Instead of giving traditional Presidency gifts, we compensate for the emissions of air travel by Brussels and Helsinki conference participants. As the Presidency, we also promoted transparency and the use of digital tools in the Council's work. We also offered the Elements of AI to citizens of all EU countries in all EU languages between 20 and 21. We also managed to manage the EU Presidency with lower costs than anticipated. The total cost was about EUR 26 million lower than the budget had foreseen. [ Hulls on the right] Mr President! After our presidency, Finland will continue to play an active role as a member of the EU. We gained valuable know-how and useful contacts thanks to the EU Presidency. These are helpful now that, as a Member State, we are continuing to promote the key themes for us. The European Commission adopted its work programme for the current year at the end of January. Its major priorities are in line with Finland’s objectives. It is now essential to ensure that future proposals go in the right direction. We have enough work in EU policy in the first half of this year, particularly with regard to the future EU multiannual financial framework and the future relationship between the EU and Great Britain. In autumn, it is time to align EU matters in the longer term – in accordance with the Government Programme, the Government will submit an EU policy report to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u4	One-minute answers are requested by pressing the V button and the debate is started by Mr Hassi, chairman of the large committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u5	Mr President! Finland managed the EU Presidency well, although the government changed during the Presidency. This is one indication of the strength of Finnish society. In my opinion, the most important and long-term decision of the Finnish Presidency of the European Union is the decision taken by Finland to be carbon neutral in 2050. This gives the EU Commission a mandate to prepare both legislative and financial decisions, and they all help Finland in our own efforts to be carbon neutral in 2035. I also attach great importance to Finland’s line — and of that to Finland and Minister Tuppuriinen too — that this respect for the principle of the EU’s financial framework is now on the agenda, that is to say, the principle that, if a country is to receive EU money, it must also respect the fundamental principles of the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u6	Your Honor! In particular, I would also like to thank the government for this work on combating climate change and for the fact that we, together in the European Union, have contributed to these efforts. Now the Commission has decided to take up our wish and has presented this new Green Deal programme, which will make a significant contribution in the European Union, so that we can have new technologies and also new ways of meeting this common challenge against climate change. In this respect, I believe that Finland has made significant efforts both to build this atmosphere and to offer concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u7	Mr. Speaker! The achievements of the Finnish Presidency of the European Union remained modest. [Left: On the contrary!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u10	Mr President! For this presidency: It was handled in such a typical Finnish way that hardly anyone noticed it. Then you can wonder if it was a good thing or a bad thing. But we are members of the European Union because there are things that are worth doing together in Europe rather than being managed by ourselves: controlling asylum seekers, border security, combating climate change, growth, responding to digitalisation and so on. That is why we should ensure that the EU has sufficient resources for this. The net contributor, Britain, is going away. We also have our former needs, such as regional development and agriculture. I think it makes sense that Finland is willing to pay some extra money. It simply makes sense if we are to achieve important goals for us in the European Union, but at the same time we are calling for strict and sensible use of the money from the European Union. But I also wanted to point out that it has now been calculated that Britain will lose as much as it has lost during its 47 years of membership. This is important to note. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u11	Mr President! As the Prime Minister said, this programme of the Presidency was prepared in parliamentary terms during the last period. In my opinion, the government has done an excellent job in implementing and implementing this jointly agreed programme. Thank you to the government and ministers for that. The priorities were well highlighted. This preparation of the financial framework has been criticised by the opposition. I have in front of me the basis set out in the last government, the starting point of which was that the overall level of GDP was 1.08 and, as far as I know, the government has left the same line now. And in order to achieve this, we need to reduce some of the new priorities so that we can make room for that agriculture, just as the Prime Minister has also raised. I would encourage you to continue along this line and I hope that the opposition will support this line, as it did last season. A few concerns: This conditionality is now apparently watering down. I hope that: Finland keeps it on the table, the same as it does,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u12	Mr President! It can be said that Finland performed well on the EU Presidency, especially in the light of the fact that, when the EU Presidency was actually being prepared, it was just under it that parliamentary elections took place, and it was prepared jointly by Parliament. When the EU Presidency began, the new European Parliament started, the new Commission started, there were Brexit negotiations — it can be said that there will certainly be no more such a turning point, or at least there will not be any likelihood that the same will be seen during the EU Presidency. Despite these, Finland did well. It is precisely the joint parliamentary preparation, this forwarding of the rule of law — I believe it is also this kind of snowball that will grow in time — and especially this is where this common climate objective for the EU is concerned. It can be said that Finland did well here. Mr President! I agree with President Orpo that this Brexit has shown that populist talk about paradise starting outside the EU,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u15	Mr President! Finland took off for its third EU presidency from rather difficult arrangements, and although there were high expectations, there was little result in the end. In the programme of the Presidency, Finland's objectives were tough and broad and diverse. The priorities of the Presidency were the strengthening of common values and the rule of law, a more competitive and socially integrated Union, the strengthening of the EU's role as a global climate leader and the guarantee of the overall security of citizens. Finland was also looking forward to immigration, Brexit, climate issue, agreement on EU funding for the years 21 to 27 and also a large number of difficult legislative projects inherited from previous presidencies. The Finnish programme did not have such a clear objective and message that the Finnish Presidency would be remembered for. The target list was unrealistically broad. In comparison, Estonia can be mentioned. Its Presidency was particularly commended. Its goal was a clear one, and the country managed to move big things forward, including digitalisation, which is important for Europe. I gotta hand it to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u16	Mr President! Indeed, the Finnish Presidency of the European Union went very well, and this work on the rule of law has been recognised in Europe. At the same time, Finland also served as President of the Council of Europe for some time, and the European Union is continuing to negotiate the accession of the European Union to the European Convention on Human Rights. This is a very important process and, in a way, this work that has now been done, for example, in Hungary, Poland and many other countries where the rule of law has been very weak is, in my view, a good start. This must continue to be a condition of respect for the rule of law for these different major economic institutions. I really hope that Finland and the Finnish Government will continue to welcome it and promote the accession of the European Union to the Convention on Human Rights, which will further strengthen the link between economic cooperation and human rights and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u17	Mr President! First of all, as the Prime Minister has said here, it was already worth it, that all the parties together were able to do the Finnish Presidency programme in the last parliamentary term, and I have no doubt that the government has not tried to take forward the things that were in that programme and which were put into common priorities. I also acknowledge that significant progress has been made on climate issues, for example. I do not think that much further could have been achieved. At the same time, I must say that when Michel's proposal for MFF came, it was not at all in line with the objectives of the previous and current Finnish Government. The fact that agriculture is being cut by EUR 310 million and the fact that the rule of law has been substantially watered down is actually serious and the question arises as to whether our lobbying has been successful. It is not enough, Mr Government, to do my best and to see what it is enough for.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u18	Mr President! Indeed, the government had to go on a moving train and still did well. It is good to remember that as a small country, Finland would be in a very vulnerable position without a broader international cooperation structure. It is great that the rule of law and human rights have been highlighted and it is important that in any further debate, environmental responsibility becomes an equally cross-cutting and important theme. Indeed, the EU has moved very well and quickly now, among other things, with the Green Deal. It's important that we get a whole new gear. Finland also emphasised research and development objectives and their achievements in its objectives, and digitalisation. It is also important for the EU to take the lead in research and new technologies, such as new businesses. EU countries have done well in many areas: when we look at where, for example, infant mortality is low or where literacy is high,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u19	Mr President! Much has now been said in recent weeks about the EU financial framework, the future EU budget. I think that much more sensible than the debate on the tithes of a percentage point is the debate on what the possible money will be spent on, whether it be 1.08, 1.05 or 1.00. They must be used for things that benefit Finland and benefit Europe as a whole: combating climate change, research and so on. Mr President! With regard to the Finnish Presidency, this raising of the rule of law was an important common line, and it must be acknowledged to the government that it produced this broad debate in Europe. Poland was brought up, particularly Hungary, and this has continued. This would not have been the case without the work being done together parliamentaryly and wanting to raise this issue and with determination Finland has raised it. When you look at Charles Michel's proposal, the rule of law does not appear so strongly, and this conditionality when it was in the Finnish Presidency's compromise proposal and Finland's objectives,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u20	Mr President! When we became the EU Presidency, in the world and in Europe, politics was a threat-focused and suspicious, hate speech was cultivated, and it was the idea that Europe would not be able to do or achieve things jointly. In that sense, I would like to pay full tribute to the government, especially to the Prime Minister and Minister Tuppurainen, but also to everyone else who, in my opinion, did an excellent job. The decision on carbon neutrality, but also the maintenance of the rule of law, so that practical frameworks were built, how the debate is being conducted, how Hungary is being heard and so on, pragmatically but systematically and decisively, I believe that these structures were being built for the future, which can be well used. I am particularly pleased that the presence of the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights was also used and I would like to see EIGE, the Institute for Gender Equality, used in the future. It is time we showed our citizens,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u21	Mr President! I suppose you could describe the Finnish Presidency with the word ‘unspeakable’. Perhaps it is very Finnish to handle things as pragmaticly as possible. Prime Minister Rinne started and Prime Minister Marin ended the Finnish Presidency. Of course, there are challenging times — the accumulation of the Commission and the Brexes ruled this presidency — but perhaps one could say that this lack of living was a problem where there was virtually nothing left in mind about the Finnish Presidency and Finland was unable to promote the important goals for itself. I understand that, as President, compromises have to be built on many issues, but it seems that it is precisely during this multiannual financial framework that, unfortunately, we were left behind in our own compromises. The fact that: In these negotiations, Finland has now set itself somewhere between the net contributor countries and the countries that are seeking more cohesion funds, it is not necessarily the best possible negotiating strategy,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u22	Secretary Tuppurainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u23	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. In his speech, Mr Essayah, as well as Mr Tavio and Mr Juuso, expressed the view that the Finnish Presidency did not really leave any marks or any impressions. This is something that can be denied. In this speech, I will focus in particular on this principle of the rule of law, which Finland raised as one of its Presidency's priorities, and for good reason. I can say that this is perhaps the point that Finland will be remembered for, which will leave a permanent mark on the results.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u28	Mr. Speaker! It is good to remember in this debate that the presidency itself decides only one thing: its own programme of presidents. That programme was good, it was done together, and it had the right priorities, but since then its implementation has been entirely dependent on what the 28 Member States were able to agree on together in the last period. The presidency can and can take these matters forward, but it cannot in any way decide them, and in this context I think that this presidency's task has been very successful. The priorities have been the right ones. Nothing is ready, the EU is never ready, but I also believe that the legacy that remains of this is that Finland has pushed for the right things and has been able to use them now. But the work continues, and we need as broad a support as possible, both here in Parliament and in Europe as allies from other Member States.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u29	Mr President! I had not taken the floor, but this was very thoughtful.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u30	Yes, there was a representative's name on the printed list, but there was some misunderstanding about it. However, the floor was made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u31	Mr President! The European Union is a community of values, as Mr Tuppurainen has just testified. For several decades we have also been able to prove how peace, stability and prosperity have been promoted through enlargement. Now that one of the objectives of the Finnish Presidency was to guarantee the overall security of Finland, it would have been very important for us to have been involved in the accession negotiations at the borders of the European Union by countries for which it would have played a very important role. Now Albania and North Macedonia have not been able to participate in these accession negotiations, and we know the French appeal for it, but when the Commission has declared itself to be above all a geopolitical Commission, and especially now that this methodological review is still being carried out and the country assessments are still being carried out for these two countries, I would like to ask Mr Tuppura if you could open that future path, and now that these two countries are waiting in the windbox,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u32	Representative Salmon, then Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u33	Mr President! I think that Mr Tuppurainen very well opened up in his speech how Finland has advocated the rule of law, and although it seems that perhaps it has not yet been achieved in this area, the work has not been wasted. I still think that Finland should continue this work with a similar constructive approach among the European Union and continue to raise this issue. I would therefore like to thank the government for the work of the presidency. It is clear that not all goals and priorities have been achieved, but the output in terms of the financial framework has also been important, and that is why it is somewhat confusing in a way when you listen to the speeches from the People's Republic of Finland, which become such an impression that it may not be understood the importance of the financial framework and agriculture and regional development funds, and it comes to the view that somehow it would be in the interests of Finland, the less we pay the EU, and not that our net access would be as good as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u37	Mr President! First of all, I do not sign the argument which has been made in this Chamber that Finland has in some way handled its Presidency invisibly or without living. I can say that when I myself speak to my colleagues, the Heads of State or Government, Finland is highly valued and the work of the Finnish Presidency is highly valued. We are a reliable, pragmatic, forward-looking country, and we have also achieved results during our Presidency. [Vilhelm Junnila’s interlude] Of these, I would like to highlight three: It was a great achievement that last December, together with all the Member States, we agreed on a carbon neutrality target for the European Union for 2050. There is still much work to be done, but this was a big, significant achievement that we can rightly be proud of. [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: How much did it cost? ] Another major entity is the promotion of the rule of law, the strong holding of discussions and also the integration into the negotiations on the financial framework. This is a big success for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u38	Mr President! During its term of office, Finland has played a strong role in defending the rule of law. I understand that it is not an achievement for the people of Peru, when the party has taken a strong stand to support Hungary in this matter last August. According to that party, the Hungarian road is also the Finnish road. Under the leadership of Finland, Hungary was consulted for the first time on the state of its rule of law in the so-called disciplinary procedure. Hungary has serious problems with respect for human rights and the rule of law. There should be no silence on breaches of the rule of law. I would have asked the Prime Minister again: how will Finland be monitored and monitored in future to ensure that the rule of law in the EU is truly respected? Unfortunately, Hungary is not the only country here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u39	Mr President! The opposition's role is to criticise the government. What I do not understand, however, is that the opposition, with the mouth of the Finns, is underestimating the actions of the Finnish Government in international fora and in the European Union. International observers — all those who have assessed the Finnish Presidency — say that it was not only pragmatic but also strongly moving things forward, just as one can expect from a small country. [Leena Sea interlude] There is already a list of issues that have been strongly raised. Climate change and sustainable development have been one of the priorities we have invested in. We have invested in the development of the rule of law, and it is very important not only that this dialogue has been conducted on the basis of Article 7 with Poland and Hungary and that this rule of law mechanism has entered the financial framework, but also that there is a permanent dialogue with all the Member States — all of them. The European Union is keen to ensure that the Member States adhere to the common value base, and thus the European Union is able to be a model for the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u40	Mr President! Europe will soon have its borders closed, and it will be caused by the corona virus. We have an Agenda 2030 programme with 17 different objectives and nearly 200 different sub-objectives, and Finland has taken this Agenda 2030 as the lead. There is also one point in ensuring a healthy life and well-being. I would like to ask you now that you have visited the EU a lot, Prime Minister: How has this interest rate situation been taken into account there, because we have been very reserved in Finland? We have not really heard anything and you have not told us anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u43	Mr President! I think there is too little debate on the competitiveness of the EU and, in fact, during the last Question Time, I have highlighted this platform economy and its importance at the moment in the world. The trillions are moving at the moment, but unfortunately the trillion do not hit Europe: 66% are going to the USA, 30% to Asia, 3% to Europe and 2% to Africa, so we are practically in these new technological platforms where money, productivity and competitiveness are actually improving, along the same lines as Africa. Minister Kulmuni, you have made an interesting opening on the website today, and that is a good opening, but it does not remove the fact that the digital single market does not work in Europe, and that is what you, Mr Government, must be able to make a change in this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u44	Secretary Ohio, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u45	Mr President! Thank you for your good remarks. — There has been talk of overall security here, and that is what the Finnish Presidency contributed to. A few examples of this: Efforts have been made to increase the resources of the European Border Guard Authority, Frontex, for example. Finland has contributed to the establishment of a permanent border guard force — this is a matter of great progress. This is a very important point from the point of view of the state at the external borders. I think that even if it were not for Finland, this might not have progressed so well. On the other hand, Finland has contributed to the removal of terrorist content online on the Internet, together with other Member States. We have promoted interoperability, i.e. better communication between information systems so that we can better know between the different authorities, who is moving within the European Union and what they are doing here. On the other hand, the Prime Minister's speech mentioned hybrid threats and preparations for them. We have had such scenario-based discussions with the Member States, how together we will intervene in hybrid impact situations and what EU mechanisms we would use in these situations. A common asylum and immigration policy has been on our agenda,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u46	One minute for the ministers, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u47	Mr President! Mr Essayah here described the Finnish Presidency as non-viable, but I would describe it as elegant rather than elegant. Indeed, Finland alone will not be able to cope with the challenges facing the world, but in cooperation and cooperation with others, elegantly — even gestureless action can be very impressive. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u48	Mr President! It is all right that the rule of law is discussed and spoken in concrete terms, and it is good in itself that the representative mentioned freedom of the press and so on. However, it may have gone wrong that it seemed that even our brother-in-law's government was pissed off in vain by Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u52	Mr President! Of course, one of Europe's big questions is how it can influence the development of humanity: how can our ball, in what direction does it evolve, what is its geostrategic role, what is its global role? In this respect, of course, it is absolutely crucial, as the government has repeatedly stated and stated in its own programme, to which the President has repeatedly appealed and proclaimed in various fora, namely the role of foreign and security policy, which is the role of the defence dimension. In this respect, of course, it is precisely as has been said here in various mouths that we are not alone defining this line, but can we, according to the government's assessment, be satisfied, Prime Minister or Minister of Defence, with the way in which the financial frameworks provide the conditions for the European Union to act in a more effective way in its global role and in its role as a provider of international policy security on the planet?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u53	Mr President! The Presidencies are coming and going, and quite few people remember, for example, what Romania or Slovakia or Austria have been doing during their own presidency. That is why we should perhaps look further when, after two months, we assess how Finland has succeeded as President. Finland has made progress during its Presidency by highlighting above all the issues of the rule of law and climate policy, the role of the EU as climate leader. They will be evaluated in five years' time, ten years from now, how the EU has succeeded, above all, in the climate and the environment, for example. In five and ten years' time, it will hopefully also be estimated that the media in Hungary will be freer or that electoral systems will not change as it happens, or that curricula will not be drawn up according to the political weights in question. These are the issues that have also been sought to address and see what is happening there in Hungary, and I would recommend that we also evaluate and hopefully evaluate later on what has actually been achieved and how the EU will develop in the next few years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u54	Secretary Henrikson, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u55	Mr President! It's a very interesting conversation. I very much appreciate the fact that a large number of representatives have seen that Finland has had the opportunity to raise the rule of law to a very lively debate at EU level. It is also the case that, for the first time in the history of the EU, the rule of law was also discussed on the table of Justice Ministers, and this was done thanks to the Finnish Presidency.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u58	Mr President! One of the achievements of the Finnish Presidency, which has not yet been mentioned, is that Finland prevented the non-contractual Brexit from happening. The Brexit was supposed to take place at the end of October last autumn, but the Finnish Government negotiated a new agreement which became acceptable to the British Parliament. I believe that this is an important achievement of the Finnish Presidency. But I agree with Mrs Kanerva that when you look at these achievements, it is precisely what is long-term. I believe that Finland’s achievement of the EU’s commitment to carbon neutrality in the middle of the century is a very important or most important long-term issue of this kind. Similarly, Finland’s action to bind the rule of law to the use of money,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u59	Herr Talman! En framgångsrik ordförandeperiod börjar vara förbi, och man behöver inte alls vara påskyndad som riksdagsledamot för ett regeringsparti för att konstatera att den var framgångsrik. Man har drivit de frågor som är ur globalt, europeiskt och Finlands intresse med framgång, både när det gäller klimat och när det gäller rättsstatsprinten. Men nu fortsätter arbetet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u60	Mr President! Representative Guzenina mentioned the elegant word that this period has been elegant to Finland. I would say that it may be, but has it been relevant from the perspective of the Finns, because when we discuss these EU issues, the climate debate and the rule of law will become the top priority in this Chamber. They are important things, but what affects each of us and all of our citizens is how we can verify our security of supply and domestic food production in the future. Therefore, Finland cannot afford and Finland should not accept a significant cut in agricultural yields. It now appears that EU agricultural subsidies are decreasing. That's the point. What happens if agricultural subsidies fall by EUR 300 million? I didn't get a proper answer last Thursday at Question Time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u61	Minister Mikkonen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u62	Mr President! As has often been pointed out here, one of the objectives of the Finnish Presidency of the European Union was climate policy and the commitment of the EU as a whole to the 2050 objective of carbon neutrality. That is what we achieved, as the Prime Minister has said here, and one of the crucial things was that the climate issue was not just discussed in the Environment Council, but that the whole of the EU was passing the climate issue. This aspect was taken into account in all the Councils, and that is how it should be. Finland also had solutions to climate change, and it is a circular economy. It combines both the climate issue, resource wisdom, biodiversity management and the competitiveness of the EU. This message was very strong, and for this we received much praise for bringing the circular economy as a solution to the problems of this time. It is a pleasure to note that the European Commission has now taken it strongly into its own programme. There are solutions to this common challenge.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u63	Mr President! Thank you, too, for the successful Presidency of the European Union. Now, of course, we are all interested in how we can get all the different climate objectives through in the future, so that at the same time we do not compromise, for example, how or what Finns eat. When you think about this, Finland has created a frame, a carbon neutrality target of 2035, and then, at the same time, has driven the 2050 target across the EU. In fact, we now have the advantage of attracting the climate billions that are related to innovation and product development and so on and that could now be removed from this in the future. At the same time the Brexit happened, and there is now a huge technology giant leaving, which opens up opportunities for Finns and Finland to create that climate supercell, the climate-nok in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u64	Mr President! I welcome the fact that Mr Östman raised these concrete effects. The government is talking about a community of values. At least when I myself once voted on EU membership, I thought it was primarily an economic union in which goods, services and capital move. Now, suddenly, we are in some of the upper concepts of a 'value community'. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u66	Mr President! The objectives of the Finnish Presidency were good. The fight against climate change, the emphasis on the idea of justice and, among other things, the promotion of the budgetary framework were respectable and ambitious objectives, but it would be good to be honest in this House and to say that they were either not fully implemented or watered down considerably. For example, this objective of carbon neutrality: the EU countries did not commit themselves to implementing it. One such success story in the EU has been the exchange of students and education through Erasmus, through which more than 300,000 Finns have been exchanged, and in fact, our international exchanges will continue to take place in the future in close proximity to this Erasmus+ programme at all levels of education. I would like to ask the Minister for Education and Science, Mr Kosonen: what stage did these negotiations take, and what new will this fine programme hopefully bring to Finnish young people in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u67	Mr President! I am also one of those who were very pleased to have followed the Finnish Presidency of the European Union and how elegantly and smartly the Prime Minister and the Minister of European Responsibility carried out their duties. After World War II, the European Community was founded on the idea of peace and stability, and over the decades it grew into a whole of 28 countries. In fact, I would like to ask Mr Tuppurainen: how would you describe the mental state of the European Union at the moment, when it is known that Great Britain, which was a major bearer of responsibility in this community, is leaving?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u68	Mr President! Since the climate crisis is so acute and requires such extensive action at every level, it is quite clear that it is precisely an issue that is relevant, and it is a matter that is concrete, and it is also a matter for which there is very broad support from the majority of Finns both at home and internationally. For Finland, this Presidency was indeed a unique opportunity to promote climate action in the EU and to be larger in size, as we want to be in climate work. It is also very important that the EU is a strong leader in climate action. It is also in our interest. This objective was confirmed by the European Council in Finland, and it is true that not all countries committed themselves to implementing it, but it was only one country which was Poland. I therefore hope that next June the experience of the Finnish Presidency will be utilised as this is being taken forward. I would like to thank you once again for the fact that Finland has also set itself the objective of promoting animal welfare,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u69	Mr President! The chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva, addressed the question here in relation to the development of EU defence cooperation. After all, Finland has long and consistently supported the development of defence cooperation in accordance with our current Government Programme and also with previous reports. These key initiatives, the Defence Fund and military mobility, are important programmes for Finland, and in fact they should be looked at a little more broadly than the average amount they provide. They must be seen as wider European projects. It is a question of defending Europe, if that is how I put it. As we all know, this financial framework is quite a puzzle, and it must be understood that, as part of the overall consideration and the overall objective of cutting, these defence initiatives have also been, or are, subject to some kind of cutbacks. However, it has to be said that they are receiving more funding than the current financial framework period and both programmes are new initiatives. In other words, Mr President, it could be summed up that the negotiations on the spending limits are still ongoing and that defence initiatives are moving forward, but there are apparently no major leaps ahead.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u70	Mr President! In this debate, it is worth remembering two things: Firstly, the fact that a parliamentary programme was formed here in Parliament together during the last term. The role of the Finnish Presidency was then to bring the views of all the Member States as close as possible to each other. This is where we can say that we have succeeded. All of Finland's objectives moved forward, and on the other hand, the negotiations on the Presidency's most important tasks, namely the seven-year budget, advanced to the point that we were able to turn the proposal over to Michel. Now the most important thing is to focus on pursuing our own goals. EU-level climate work will be promoted in the form of a green deal, the rule of law will continue to be strengthened on the agenda, and in particular the increase in Finland's funding for regional development and agriculture, but also for transport, infrastructure and education funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u71	Mr President! Controlling the EU's external borders and investing in the security of the Union will certainly be a good investment, and that is what pragmatism is all about, but it was also the aim of the EU Presidency to achieve a more common asylum policy. The aim was therefore to divide people arriving in southern Europe more evenly between the Member States. It was clear to us realistics from the outset that this will not work. The burden sharing at European level does not work, whether it is so-called binding or voluntary. Finland has traditionally been one of the few countries meeting its quota. For domestic policy reasons, Finland wants to take responsibility, in particular, so to speak. The fact is that people who want to go to Europe and north will never end in this way. I would like to ask the Government how long the 175 people from Greece and the rest of the Mediterranean, according to the latest decision, consider the responsibility of the government to be borne.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u72	Mr President! Looking ahead to the negotiations on the financial framework, it is, of course, a challenge for this major cut in agricultural and rural aid, but I think it should be quite clear that Finland cannot pursue these at the expense of these new priorities. Their money must be found elsewhere in the European Union budget — not in Horizon, not in Erasmus, not in defence, not in asylum policy or in immigration control. The second point is that this recovery of Finland will ultimately be resolved in negotiations and in the so-called envelope. I would like to remind you of the situation seven years ago when the trio Prime Minister Katainen, Minister of Agriculture Koskinen and Minister of European Affairs Stubb achieved an excellent result, the cuts to the Finnish countryside were very small and the Finnish contribution became more reasonable. I wish you every success and strength in this negotiation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u73	Mr President! We will certainly not get the whole together without reducing the amounts of the new priorities proposed by the Commission, as we have already said in the last period when we were working on this common basis of influence. This second pillar of agriculture, which is important to Finland, is a special point in the EU budget in that Finland is a net beneficiary, so the higher we get it towed, the better our total income is. And, as Mr Orpo said there, this will eventually be resolved in that national envelope, and I really hope that agriculture will be our number one. Getting this conditionality and the rule of law there on the basis of the budget is a big step, and I hope that it will not become what the President-in-Office of the European Council has proposed, but that these backgrounds of the Finnish proposal will be included. Finally, a Member of Parliament must be able to explain in that market what the rule of law is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u74	Minister Tuppurainen, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u75	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to respond to the Estonian question of enlargement: Finland raised the situation in the Western Balkans. There, above all, North Macedonia and Albania want to start accession negotiations and negotiations are under way with Montenegro and Serbia. For well-known reasons, we were still unable to move forward on this issue during the Presidency. It requires unanimity, and if there is no unanimity, then the matter will not proceed. But now it's moving. Yesterday, at the General Affairs Council, Commissioner Várhelyi, who is responsible for enlargement, presented a new methodology for enlargement, which is a clear step forward, and it was also from these critical countries — France, Denmark, Holland — that received green light. It brings these enlargement issues together, as it were, into more political clusters and gives Finland a favourable emphasis to democracy, the economy and the rule of law, so that, in the light of this new methodology, if the Commission's country reports are in favour of it, I am hopeful that, before the May summit, in relation to the Western Balkans, which is in Zagreb, a solution can already be found. This would be a step forward and an important message about it too,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u76	Secretary Kosonen, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u77	Mr President! In the field of education, we are very pleased, for example, with this joint meeting between finance ministers and education ministers. It was the first joint meeting, and we wanted it to indicate precisely how important it is for the competitiveness and continuation of Europe as a whole to be strengthened. It is also up to us whether we can respond to climate change in the way we want to and what Finland's high targets were. Mr Heinos has answered this question on Erasmus: we have achieved good results in these rounds of our negotiations. Among other things, we have been able to achieve the mobility of the programme, the forms of virtual cooperation, the inclusion and the European added value of decisions, and there is still something to think about with regard to the management and budget of the programme and with regard to third countries, and we are now looking forward to Croatia's continuation in these negotiations. We also received a lot of feedback on education, youth and physical activity,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u78	Mr President! Finland set ambitious targets for the Presidency, which were successful but still require consistent work to be carried out in concrete terms. I still want to raise the rule of law, because we can really be proud of promoting it. The principle is a central value on which the European Union is built. Member States have undertaken to comply with it when they join the Union. In view of the prevention of arbitrage, the realisation of individual rights and the Union's external credibility, the defence of the rule of law is comparable to the defence of the existence of the Union as a whole. Mr Meri, the EU is a great project of peace and stability, the economy of which you refer. During its Presidency, Finland prioritised the defence of the rule of law and called for the conditionality of EU funding to respect fundamental values, despite the loud opposition of Poland and Hungary. Thanks to activity and long-term work, the registration is part of the basic proposal for the multiannual financial framework,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u79	Mr President! The EU's health ministers met on 13 February, but unlike Mr Juvonen, I can wait for tomorrow's debate on this subject. I have listened to this high-level debate and I am familiar with the long-term perspective of parliamentarians who have experienced a special spirit relationship — Judgments, Kanerva, Hassi. I myself was a 99-SDP candidate in the European elections, and I must say that my own attitudes have also changed somewhat since those years. At the time, I think my election ID was referring to my profession as a doctor, ‘The healing peak in Brussels’. Today, perhaps I would like to highlight other questions of power. I am very pleased with this presidency of the European Union, and it is easy to see that certainly the support for EU membership, which was 57% in 94, would at present be something like 80, if not more.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u80	Mr President! Prime Minister Marin and also Minister Kosonen mentioned that officials did a very good job during the EU Presidency, and I agree. That is why it is amazing that these assistants are still needed after the presidency. Mr Orpo mentioned the importance of EU cooperation, and my hope is that this would be reflected as a national interest. At the time when Orpo was Minister of the Interior, tens of thousands of people marched across the western border without anything other than carrying their bags and welcoming them. EU cooperation was then only seen as a negative burden sharing. Representative Sipilä hoped for a place for the countryside. I hope that this does not mean that the fight for agricultural subsidies of EUR 310 million will be abandoned. Mr Kiljunen gave a colorful speech here, celebrating the value base and achievements during the EU presidency. However, our contribution is now increasing and agricultural subsidies are threatening to fall. The citizens of Finland do not see these as positive achievements, but as blackmailing a bolt in the middle class.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u81	Mr President! True Finns persist in singing the same song, completely forgetting that they were in the same government in 2015 when Europe was hit by large-scale immigration. At the time, decisions were taken unanimously with several of their representatives and it was found that asylum seekers could not be stopped at the border. Then the matter was taken care of and the situation was taken over. Since then, after years, hardly anyone has come to Finland, and this is the situation today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u82	Mr President! I am a little surprised at the tone of the debate when, however, these objectives for this Presidency were set together in parliamentary terms. So when we set our goals, we're gonna shoot ourselves in the foot with both guns so we can blame ourselves. Of course, self-loathing is a good thing, but not on this scale at all. I give a great deal of credit to Prime Minister Marin, who has courageously defended Finnish agriculture and regional development funds. By the way, it appeared on many television newscasts the other night, and it should also come to the attention of the opposition that it is being fought for seriously. The Government Programme's guidelines on this are also very good. I don't think it's a good idea to make a lot of noise when there's no problem. Of course, when many countries negotiate and there are many strong leaders, everyone defends theirs. It's obvious. As far as this debate on the rule of law is concerned, I am a little concerned. The big glue of the whole of the European Union is that it is a community of peace that relies on certain fundamental values that are respected, but now it seems that these valuable values are not very popular in these speeches, as we have just heard. But hopefully this is where reason prevails and the community of peace prospers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u83	Representative Löfström, then Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u84	Mr President! The cornerstones of the EU are shared values — democracy, the rule of law and freedom. During its Presidency, Finland has actively pursued these very issues and has received a great deal of recognition for it. I am proud that the government has pushed this issue so hard during the EU Presidency. We must say no when someone compromises on common fundamental rights. Such cases have been swept under the carpet for far too long by saying that we should not interfere in the affairs of others. However, dismantling the independence of the judiciary is no one's internal business, not as long as you receive EU funds and are a member of the EU. It has been voluntary for all countries. The EU should not be treated as an ATM.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u85	Mr President! In this reply, I would like to focus in particular on the financing of agricultural development. This has come up in several speeches in this Chamber. It is quite clear, in line with the guidelines adopted by Parliament, that this is one of Finland's key priorities in the negotiations on the financial framework. For us, the priorities are low, reasonable overall, securing agricultural development funding — we see that this is also important from the point of view of combating climate change, so that we can make our agriculture more climate-friendly — and as a third step, this rule of law mechanism, i.e. linking the rule of law also to the EU budget. These are our main priorities. In the compromise proposal presented by the Finnish Presidency as a negotiating box containing the figures, the level of agricultural development funding was 10 billion higher than that proposed by the Commission when compared with the Commission's original proposal. Now we have received Charles Michel's proposal. This base is 2.5 billion higher in terms of agricultural development funding than in the Commission's proposal. In fact, the latest version we discussed last week in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework had already increased this funding for agricultural development to around 5 billion compared to the Commission's original proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u86	Mr President! Mr Honkonen referred to the Finnish Presidency of the Council of Europe. In Strasbourg, both presidencies across the country and across the party lines were truly praised, and for that I thank our fine ministers. The rule of law is not only a matter for the Council of Europe, but it was very important to link it with the resources of the European Union, because the development of the rule of law is not only a threat to democracy and human rights, but also to the acceptability of our EU funding. The right-wing power over Hungary and Poland is very corrupt. Our money will also flow into the pockets of those in power, while the leaders of these countries stir up hatred for minorities and distract attention from their own actions. I am surprised that the Finns also support this kind of activity in Europe. [Leena Sea interlude] I would have liked even more results from the fight against tax havens. The Finnish Government did a good job there, but it's a pretty tough fight, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u87	Mr President! Misuse and punishment of funds are quite different from the system of values and punishment for disagreement. This is for the last speaker. True Finns do not support the misuse of EU funds. It's all wrong. [Jussi Saramo’s interlude] When it was said that this rule of law should not be properly criticised, and the representative Sipilä pointed out that the MP should be able to tell this in squares and squares, so I would have liked to say that this was not a question of what was going on, but that EU citizens were telling them that they did not really know what was going on and I asked them what was going to be answered, what the government was going to say to them. I can tell you what you believe to be the rule of law, but I suppose it is not my job to go all the way down the squares and the turbulent, but it is the EU's job to tell its citizens what they are looking for and where they want to be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u88	Mr President! Mr Östman at an earlier stage and now the sea and Junnila pointed out the relevance to Finns of pursuing these government priorities in the European Union. Mr Kivelä has already referred here to the fact that climate change applies to all Finns. The rule of law, which is what is being asked here right now: The first articles of the Treaties contain a clear definition which unites the peoples of the Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u92	Mr President! One of the failures of the Union under the Finnish Presidency was, of course, an attempt to pursue a common and controlled immigration policy, in which the need for international protection at the Union's external borders would be resolved, followed by responsibility for these people in the various Member States of the Union. Unfortunately, no progress has been made in this area in the Union. Now we are making such ad hoc solutions, for example, with the aim of helping people in refugee camps under very difficult conditions in Greece. Personally, I believe that Finland's decision to take 175 children and young and single-parent families to Finland from the Greek islands and a few others was a well-founded and correct decision, but I would have asked the government: do you think that it is possible to move forward in this whole theory more strongly?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u93	I give the floor to Mr Kivisaari and then to Mr Hassi, chairman of the large committee, and Mr Tuppurainen, Minister for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u94	Mr President! One of the objectives of the Finnish EU Presidency was to ensure the overall security of citizens. This was promoted, among other things, by developing work to combat hybrid threats. Just today, Minister of Finance Katri My corner has continued the debate by opening up the process of strengthening cyber-self-sufficiency. Finland and Europe are heavily dependent on the technologies of large companies outside Europe. This makes our security vulnerable. We are clearly lagging behind, for example, the United States, Russia and China, where they have started to create their own systems. Europe should be a pioneer in many areas and should also be a pioneer in information technology. I would ask the government: what is the government going to do, together with the European Union, to strengthen cyber-self-sufficiency and thus the security status of both Finland and Europe?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u95	Mr President! Finland would not be one of the best countries in the world if we had not developed the rule of law, free elections, an independent judiciary, the rule of law and freedom of the media. Already in 93, before Finland joined the European Union, the EU decided that compliance with the rule of law was part of the so-called Copenhagen criteria, which are required of a new country that is seeking membership before this country can become a member. I believe that it is very important to act in such a way that a Member State of the EU will not then be able to slip away from these principles afterwards. I would also like to comment on those who feel that the Finnish Presidency has been somehow invisible or trivial, that I would like to hear what the Prime Minister of the EU Presidency has received as much international attention as our Prime Minister, Sanna Marin, has received.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u97	And the last speech of the debate, Mr Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u98	Mr President! This is actually a good thing to decide on Mr Mattila's question as to the mental state of the EU. Yesterday, in the General Affairs Council, we granted the Commission a mandate for the Brexit negotiations. It is a tearful thing when one country leaves the Union, but in the midst of all this it was extremely sensible to see that the Member States were united. We believed that by being firm and united we would strengthen our negotiating positions and in general secure the EU's ability to act in this rather unpredictable world. We can be pleased that when a tight spot comes, the EU will be able to act in a united manner. But at the same time as we are wondering what the mental state of the EU is, we have to say that we are in the EU. We might as well ask what the mental state of Finland is — and that depends on us. That depends, ladies and gentlemen, on how we treat one another and whether we adhere to the fundamental values that we believe in in Finland too: No friend will be left behind. Finland has a strong rule of law. We respect freedom of expression. We respect democracy. These are the things that make it what the European Union is, and once Finland has acted decisively and irresistibly in these things, we will be bigger than our size in the world. That is why I believe that the rule of law was a well-chosen priority.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u99	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u100	Mr President! The main content of this government proposal is that the composition of the board of directors of the Institute of Criminology and Legal Policy should be changed so that the Management Board would no longer include a member appointed by the Ministry of Education and Culture, but that the Ministry of Justice would designate five members of the Board instead of the current four. This is justified by the fact that this is an institute specifically dedicated to these matters, under the authority of the University of Helsinki, and this institute has a national role specifically provided for in the law, i.e. the Institute must carry out independent criminological and other legal policy research, taking into account the information needs of the Ministry of Justice and society, to monitor and analyse crime, the functioning of the crime control and sanction system, the conditions of law and the impact of legislation, and to report on their development and also to maintain the research registers necessary to carry out the tasks provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u101	Mr President! There is no comment to be made on this government proposal, which was well presented by the Minister, but in this context I would like to say a few words about the study of justice policy and criminology. Former Minister of Justice Antti Häkkänen here recently stated that in Finnish justice policy, the status of the victim and the emphasis on the status of the victim have been too low over recent years, even decades, and in particular almost all the reforms that have taken place in justice policy over the last decades have highlighted the need to improve the legal protection and status of the offender or suspect. These reforms are numerous and can easily be found by everyone. Now that sexual offences have been discussed recently, I noticed that some organisations and organisations that promote the status of victims of rape found that the role of the victim of rape in relation to the perpetrator is very weak and very poor in the judicial process. Well, that is true, but the problem is that it does not only concern the victims of rape but also the victims of all crimes. I hope that, in the future, as justice policy and criminology are being studied, it will now be said, clearly more than in recent years, that more attention will be paid to strengthening the rights and status of the victim of crime rather than, in practice, constantly strengthening the rights of the offender, of the suspect or of the offender or of the offender or of the offender. Of course, someone can say that these are not from one another, that we can strengthen the role of the perpetrator and strengthen the status of the victim, but in practice it has been so — and this has also happened in Finland — that, in the past few decades, efforts have been made to strengthen and emphasise this factor and his so-called fundamental and human rights, to shorten the retention periods and so on and so on, so on and so on, the interest in solving the crime has remained second and also the victim's status has remained second. From the point of view of the victim and society, the interest in solving a crime is very important and cannot be completely ignored when criminal policy is being studied and developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u102	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SIVM 1/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u103	Mr President! As chairman of the Committee on Culture, I have come to present this report. — This proposal proposes to amend the law on the National Education Evaluation Centre. The law would specify the rights of access to information of the National Education Evaluation Centre. The National Training Assessment Centre would be given the right to receive the information necessary for the performance of its statutory assessment tasks free of charge and without prejudice to confidentiality rules. For the purpose of carrying out its statutory tasks, the National Education Evaluation Centre needs information on decisions concerning specific support for pupils and students, which contain confidential information. It is necessary for the evaluation authority to be able to disclose confidential information, inter alia, in order to assess learning outcomes. The National Centre for the Evaluation of Education, hereinafter referred to as ‘the Centre for Evaluation’, is an independent and independent authority for the evaluation of education and training, acting as a The Centre produces evaluation-based information for decision-making in education policy and the development of education and early childhood education. According to the National Education Evaluation Centre Act, the evaluation centre is to carry out assessments of the activities of education and early childhood education, education and training providers and universities in accordance with the periodic evaluation plan provided for by the Law. A new provision, Article 6, on the right of access to information of the Centre, is proposed for adoption in the Government proposal. According to the proposal, the Centre has the right to obtain the necessary information from the organisers and producers of early childhood education, the providers of education and training and the National Board of Education in order to carry out its statutory assessment tasks free of charge and without prejudice to confidentiality rules. Access to confidential information shall not be subject to the assessment of higher education institutions. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Education considers it necessary and appropriate for the Government's proposal. The committee proposes the adoption of a legislative proposal contained in a government proposal as amended. A few words first about the need for knowledge: According to the Government’s proposal, the Evaluation Centre needs, inter alia, information on specific support for pupils and students for the evaluation of statutory learning outcomes in schools and educational institutions and relevant information necessary for the evaluation of learning and teaching, such as placement in a special institution or a special group or learning according to an individualised degree. The evaluation of the learning outcomes of religion and philosophy also requires knowledge of the religion in which the student participates. The current provisions of the Basic Education Act and the High School and Early Education Act contain an obligation to provide information to the Evaluation Centre. However, the law of the Centre does not provide for the right of the Centre to obtain information, without prejudice to the confidentiality provisions, for the performance of its assessment function. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs stresses that the evaluation centre produces important evaluation-based information for decision-making in education policy and for the development of early childhood education and training. According to the Government's proposal, one of the central objectives of the evaluation centre's evaluations is to contribute to the realisation of equality, equality and the best interests of the child. The Committee attaches great importance to ensuring that the education arrangements and learning outcomes of pupils in need, such as children with disabilities and young people, can be properly evaluated. The report — if anyone wishes to take a closer look at these facts — talks about the basis for the processing of personal data, and in this context the Committee on Education and Rural Development considers that enabling the evaluation centre to carry out its statutory tasks is an acceptable and necessary basis for providing the Centre with confidential sensitive information. The education arrangements and learning outcomes of pupils in need of support, such as children and young people with disabilities, must be properly evaluated and the evaluations cannot be carried out without the processing of data belonging to specific categories of personal data. However, at the initial stage of the statutory assessment task, it should always be assessed whether the processing of sensitive data is sufficiently heavy, necessary, proportionate to the rights of data subjects and adequate safeguards are in place under the law. — That is what we say in the report. Just a few words about this law itself, when we have already modified it somewhat on the basis of an expert consultation: In the Government’s proposal, the right to information that breaks the confidentiality provisions is tied to the information necessary for the statutory assessment of the child, student or student on early childhood education, education, education and the organisation of the support provided for in the legislation on education and early childhood education. According to the proposal, the necessary information to carry out the evaluation tasks of education and early childhood education provided for by the law is, as a general rule, well established. According to the Government's proposal, the provision of information by the provider of education, education or early childhood education or the provision of information on the data reserves of national education and early childhood education may be considered sufficient to assess requests for information in the light of the legal conditions of the transfer. It has been suggested in the expert consultation that the purpose of the provision should be to specify either the most precise and precise list of sensitive information to be disclosed or any other appropriate restriction that would specify the set and nature of the information to be disclosed and, on the other hand, the purposes for which the disclosure of the different types of information is necessary. According to the experts, these elements are as such described in the explanatory memorandum to the proposal but do not appear in the provision itself. The expert consultation has highlighted that the more precise the right to information is linked to the relevant conditions in the provisions, the less likely it is to justify an individual request for information in practice. A precise provision provides a better opportunity for the supplier to assess the request in the light of the legal conditions for the disclosure. In addition, the supplier of information may, by effectively refusing to provide information, create a situation in which the obligation to disclose information may be examined by an external authority. This possibility is important for the coordination of access to information and confidentiality. In its practice, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn particular attention to the need to limit the processing of sensitive information to what is necessary by means of precise and precise provisions. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs therefore proposes that this provision be clarified by a list of matters for which the Centre is entitled to receive information. These include information on the person’s participation in early childhood education or education, information on the extent and methods of early childhood education or education, information on the results of the study or assessment of the learner’s/student’s knowledge as referred to in Article 22 of the Basic Education Act, Article 53 of the Vocational Education Act, Article 37 of the Upper Secondary Education Act and Article 8 of the Basic Education Act, information on decisions and plans drawn up for education or education, and information on how to obtain and organise the support provided for in the Act on Education, Basic Education and Vocational Education. However, the proposed list cannot be exhaustive as it is based only on the prevailing view of the need for an assessment and the subject matter of the assessment. These needs for evaluation may change even within a short period of time, which is why there was also a lack of transparency. In addition, the need to obtain information that has not been foreseen in the planning of the evaluation may arise in the context of an individual assessment. The committee therefore proposes that the evaluation centre may also receive other information related to the provision of early childhood education, education or support. However, these must be necessary to carry out the assessment task and must be of a comparable nature to the information referred to in the list above. The explanatory memorandum of the Government’s proposal states in several paragraphs that the proposed right of access to confidential information on a person is not possible for the Centre to obtain information, for example on the medical assessments underlying the organisation of the subsidy. According to the proposal, this also applies to psychological assessments, medical or social care professional documents or other documents of student care services. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers this limitation to be necessary and important and proposes that a new paragraph 2 be added. It states that the Centre is not entitled to receive information on medical or psychological assessments of a child, student or student in early childhood education, documents of health care or social care professionals, or other similar confidential documents of study services. On the basis of the various expert opinions, the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Education Committee and the Ministry of Justice have then jointly reworked this section. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs therefore proposes a change to the title of the section, but above all to its content, and that can then be found out in this report. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u104	Mr President! A new, extended provision on the right of access to information of the evaluation centre is proposed for adoption in the Government proposal. Just as the chairman of the Committee on Education and Culture has pointed out, the Committee on Culture also considers the proposal of the government to be necessary and appropriate. The committee proposes the adoption of a legislative proposal contained in a government proposal with some details. The Centre produces significant evaluation-based information for decision-making in education policy and the development of early childhood education and training. One of the central objectives of the evaluations carried out by the Centre is to contribute to increasing equality and equality between the different learners and to achieving the best interests of the child in general. The education arrangements and learning outcomes of pupils in need, such as disabled children and young people, must be able to be assessed at the necessary points. Legislation must meet the objective of general interest and be proportionate and proportionate to its objective. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers that the proposed amendment of the law has a public interest objective and is proportionate to the objective pursued by it. President! It is clear that consideration should always be given to whether there are sufficient grounds for processing sensitive data and whether the processing of such data is proportionate to individual rights. The expert hearings which we heard in the Committee on Culture and Education have indicated that efforts should be made to complete this provision with the most precise and precise list of the data to be disclosed, i.e. the necessary data. These elements are, in themselves, described in the explanatory memorandum, but do not appear sufficiently forcefully in the provision itself. A precise provision provides a better opportunity for the data provider to assess the request from the point of view of legal conditions. President! It would therefore be wise to specify the provision by means of a list of the information which the evaluation centre is entitled to receive. This is precisely the person's information on participation in early childhood education or education, information on the extent and methods of early childhood education or education, information on the results of the learning and knowledge of the student or student, information on decisions made for education and education, and information on how to receive support and how to organise it. The explanatory memorandum of the Government's proposal contains a very important point: the right given to the Evaluation Centre does not allow access to information on the underlying medical assessments, including psychological assessments, medical or social care professionals' documents or other documents on student care services. This is a very important point to take into account. Just as the chairman of the committee said, the Committee on Culture considers this limitation to be necessary and proposes a slight refinement of the section, which was presented by the chairman of the committee. President! The bill aims to streamline and clarify the rights to information that serve the understanding of the educational and educational world. It's a very honorable quest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u105	Mr President! Finland continues to be one of the leading countries in education and learning. We must develop this fine school system as a whole. We still face major challenges, such as the exclusion of young people. This requires researched and analysed information and evaluation of activities, and this change of law is therefore important. In order to be able to develop in order to be evaluated, there must be conditions for data collection. What do we need a Garbage for? The role of the National Assessment Centre Karvi is to evaluate the activities of education and training providers and universities. It assesses learning outcomes, carries out quality system audits, supports education providers and universities in their evaluation and quality management issues, and develops general evaluation of education. This is needed more and more as the world changes rapidly. We need systematic data mining. Karvin must continue to operate in a way that is independent of outside bodies and that is in line with the principle of developmental evaluation and actively communicating the results of its evaluations. Some things about collecting information from the constitutional point of view: The government's proposal concerns Karvi's rights to information. The Centre shall be entitled to receive information necessary for the performance of its statutory assessment tasks free of charge and without prejudice to confidentiality provisions. In order to carry out these tasks, Karvi needs information on decisions concerning specific support for students, which also contain confidential information. For example, the Government is to map out and investigate the functioning of special education and inclusion, and I think this is very important. Among other things, this need is met by a change of law. From the point of view of the Constitution, it is necessary to collect only information necessary for the assessment. We have to act ethically. It is good that data collection does not go to student care documents or medical and psychological assessments. The Centre produces important information for decision-making and development of education policy. In its practice, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn particular attention to the need to restrict the processing of sensitive information in a precise and precise manner. In the Committee on Civil Liberties, Public Health and Consumer Policy, we stated that the amendment of the law has a public interest objective and is proportionate to the objective pursued. As the chairman of the committee explained above, the unanimous report of the Committee on Culture proposes amendments to the government proposal, which are mainly more specific. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers the Government's proposal to be quite necessary and appropriate. Karvi may collect personal data on participation in early childhood education and education, on the extent and methods of teaching, on the results of the evaluation of learning and skills, and on decisions and plans regarding access to and organisation of support. Another aspect of this is this retention of data: the Constitutional Committee has stated that the permanent storage of data is not in line with the protection of personal data unless there are grounds for this in relation to the nature or purpose of the information system. The longer the data retention period becomes, the more essential it is to ensure security, control of the use of the data and the legal security of the data subject. According to the Government proposal, the Centre may keep the data as long as it is necessary to carry out the evaluation for which the data have been collected and for which the data are processed. Of course, there is sometimes a need to carry out more detailed analyses of the same material. The data must then be destroyed within one year. Mr President! All in all, this amendment of the law is very necessary. The law contributes to equality, equality and the realisation of the best interests of the child of different learners. That is why I warmly support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u106	Mr President! The National Education Evaluation Centre is the only operator that produces comprehensive evaluation data on the entire education system. In order to carry out its statutory tasks, it needs information on, inter alia, decisions on specific support for pupils and students containing confidential information. It is necessary for the evaluation authority to be able to disclose confidential information, inter alia, in order to assess learning outcomes. The evaluation centre needs information on specific support for pupils and students and on relevant information necessary for the evaluation of learning and teaching outcomes. All of this promotes equality, equality and the right to support regardless of the provider and locality of education. These are the reasons why it is important to implement this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u107	Mr President! The work of the National Education Evaluation Centre Karvi has already played an important role in Finnish education policy. The numerous assessments made by Mr Karvi have provided information and recommendations at different levels of political decision-making, thus strengthening the quality of education from early childhood education to higher education. Evaluations that have sparked social debate and also contributed to political action have been linked, for example, to literacy, language learning and learning differences between girls and boys. Karvi's studies and assessments have highlighted shortcomings and developments in the Finnish education system. For example, at the beginning of the year Karvi published a report that it is difficult for people with foreign background to study at Finnish universities. The difference between people with Finnish background and those with an immigrant background is considerable, even if both groups had attended comprehensive school and upper secondary education in Finland. This study provides important information, among other things, that our education system is currently unable to provide people with immigrant backgrounds with the same capacity for higher education. The study also reflects the importance of support received in the secondary and tertiary joint phases and the problem of university application practices. For example, about one quarter of applicants with an immigrant background had a previous degree in higher education, but after moving to Finland, problems arose with the recognition of a degree. Based on the evaluations, Karvi makes recommendations to both political actors and training providers. On the basis of the above study, Mr Karvi emphasised in his recommendations, inter alia, support for language studies and the identification of students with foreign background in higher education institutions, in order to target possible support in an appropriate way. The draft law therefore proposes that the National Education Evaluation Centre, Karvi, should have the right to information on decisions concerning specific support for pupils and students containing confidential information. The bill and the amendments made to it are justified because, for example, when assessing school learning outcomes, information on specific support and learning arrangements for schoolchildren or students is essential for evaluation. Evaluations of the independent and independent operator will develop the entire education system. We should stick to this in the future and, by means of legislation, provide the best possible information for the work of the National Education Evaluation Centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u108	Mr. Speaker! This rather minor legislative proposal or legislative amendment before us is quite reasonable and worthy of support. I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media who, under the leadership of their chairman, have done a good job and have taken this forward and for their part will certainly strengthen our education system. These exchanges of information and statistics are a pretty hot potato in our society and in the public sector. It is very important that there is up-to-date statistical information and information on what is happening and that information is exchanged, but, on the other hand, this statistics and data collection are seen in many sectors, educational institutions and health care, as additional work that takes time partly from the actual, proper work to which the professionals have trained themselves. President! Even more importantly, I think it is quite difficult for us in Finland to exchange information between authorities at the moment. Of course, there are legitimate firewalls set up there, but then they go a little overboard. Many exclusions could be helped, human health could be promoted and even safety strengthened by better exchange of information between authorities. We have to do something about this here in Parliament. The EU Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which is very confusing, has brought its own difficulty to this, and it always raises concerns about how it should be applied, starting with the flower shops' funeral lists. This GDPR is so problematic that it is an EU regulation, not a directive. It is a directly applicable regulation in every EU country and cannot be implemented, transposed into national law, in its own way. President! Hopefully, there will also be solutions for the exchange of information other than that of this evaluation centre in the future, which will then make sense in our public sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u109	Mr President! Just now, when I presented this, because of the lack of time, I concentrated only on that other entity, which was amended in committee, and that was precisely the fact that there was a desire to be precise as to what data can be collected, what sensitive or confidential information can be asked and requested from the Centre. But then there was another, which was also changed after the expert consultation, when they wanted details to be made on the retention of data. In its opinion practice, the Constitutional Committee has stated that the permanent storage of data is not in line with the protection of personal data unless there are grounds relating to the nature or purpose of the information system. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stressed that the longer the data retention period will be, the more essential it will be to ensure security, control of the use of data and the legal security of data subjects. In view of the above, the Committee on Culture proposes a new paragraph 3 on the retention and destruction of confidential information received by the Centre under this Article. The proposal allows the Centre to keep the data for as long as is necessary to carry out the evaluation for which the data have been collected and for which the data are processed. The data shall then be destroyed within one year. Just as Mr Kinnunen said in his commendable speech, it is true that, in some cases, there is still a small need to check the data, but it is good that there is a deadline, which means that the data must be destroyed within one year. These changes to this government proposal are not all that small. That was quite a change in what was originally the case, but this is very understandable in the sense that it is necessary to be precise in order to obtain these sensitive matters and confidential information, and it was therefore very good that we had, for example, a data protection officer to help us in considering what needs to be done about this. I think this has come to a good conclusion, and I am very pleased that these relatively important and major changes have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u110	Mr President! There was a representative, the principal from Kivisaari, who made sure of a few special educations, because he has used his teacher’s degree a little closer to the past than I am. In time, together with him, we were able to study for a valuable class teacher’s role, which I was able to do before my career as a congressman. This matter of the National Education Evaluation Centre was also on the table when I came to Parliament itself. The first period was allowed to be in the Committee on Education and Rural Development, and now that I am still actively following the issues of education policy, I have drawn attention to this issue when it came to the committee specifically from the point of view of collecting and using this information. Then, as the chairman of the committee, Mr Risikko, pointed out, certain clarifications have been made, for example, on the retention of the data collected and on issues of this kind. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has done a good job and it is very well founded that these secret matters can also be collected and used through Karvi for the development and improvement of our education system in the future. One that I hope will improve and be more effective, especially after this reform, is the monitoring of the quality and implementation of special education, and here we often come to the questions that our children are in a very different position from the point of view of special education, even within the municipalities, on a school-by-school basis, but not to mention the situation in different municipalities. In the reform of special education itself there were many very good elements and, at the very least, beautiful objectives for everyone to be able to study in the local school and preferably in that so-called basic education group, but I would like us to think again about whether, for example, children's right to a high-quality and good special education will be realised in all situations following the reform of this law. For example, I think that the right to special education should be in a local school, and at least this will not happen in smaller village schools, because when this three-step support is advanced and needs stronger support, these small village schools with one or two or three teachers are often unable to give it, and then the change may be that the child cannot continue to study in his/her local school but then comes to another, for example, a larger central school, where more emphasis can be placed on special education. On the other hand, I myself would like to see our legislation restored to the right of children to a small group in the case of special education. It is often the kind of question I encounter when discussing with parents and teachers today. Mr President! The second point I would like to make in connection with the issue of the National Education Evaluation Centre is the accessibility of education and I hope that it will also be studied and monitored more closely. At the moment, our school network is becoming less frequent because of the acceleration of urbanisation, and it is necessary to examine and consider whether our children are in an equal position, for example in pre-school education and primary school, when, for many, school trips take up that maximum time, two and a half hours, at the age of six to seven. I personally think it is important that it should be re-evaluated and that this issue of access to education should be taken into account more effectively and that, as a local service, it should be possible to guarantee all children at least pre-school education and comprehensive school in the future. We, under the chairman of the committee, Mr Risiko, have also raised the question of whether Finland needs its own local service law in the future, and if it were to be implemented, it would also address these issues, which I have also touched upon in my own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u111	Mr Risikko, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u112	Thank you. Good speeches have been made here. There was also talk here that, for example, it would certainly be better to deal with the exclusion of young people if we had better information about their situations. Too much of us are behind that data protection. I understand that very well, but, for example, if you think that a young person has been helped by 50 different people and is still excluded, then there is a problem. I myself have always felt that we should try to intervene earlier. So all young people should be saved as a child. That is why we need this information. The opinion of the National Coalition Party is that a young person must be saved as a child. That is why we must also get information through the evaluation centre, but also in social and health care we need information between the police, the security authorities and the social welfare authorities. I launched it then as Minister of the Interior and I am pleased that the guidelines have now been adopted. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u113	Mr President! This is the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Risikko made an excellent speech on how problematic this data protection is in many ways. In fact, yesterday, in this Chamber, we discussed this data protection in relation to the employment administration and the difficulties it has caused, for example, municipal employment service staff and employment authorities when they do not receive the necessary information again from the state authority, i.e. the Employment and Economic Development Office. This is actually the same thing, and when we talk about young people, about children, this is, of course, even more difficult if help does not meet the child or young person who needs it in time. As far as this issue of the right to information relating to Karvi is concerned, the government’s proposal is indeed very technical and certainly very well supported. As such, this system of evaluation and monitoring of our education and training is interesting, because it is not really Karvi's job to check that our education system is working properly; it is its job to assess how well the education policy and the objectives we set for schools and the education system are being achieved. On the other hand, the avi has such a control responsibility, but often then, at the level of individual schools, these issues may be a little unclear. In the past, if we go a little further in history, we had these so-called school inspectors, and let us say that there was more control over that schooling and education from above. Of course, our strengths are also that we trust our teachers and that teachers have great freedoms compared to many other countries to implement a curriculum at their own school, under the leadership of the head of the school and the principal, but then the school-specific differences may be quite large. I am certainly not proposing any more control, but it would be good, to some extent and in a certain period of time, to look at the relationship between the evaluation and control of education and basic education between us and whether this system should be modified in some way in order to achieve better results in the future, as regards education and education and the acquisition of the necessary education and skills that all children and young people need.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u114	Mr President! As has often been the case here in a good and high-quality debate, this proposal is very good. It addresses a very important issue, namely improving the exchange of information between authorities, in the interests of the child and the young person in particular. President! Mr Kurvinen made a very important point when he pointed out that there were still problems with the exchange of information between different authorities in the field of education, particularly in the field of basic education. So I am talking about education, social services and health care. Time and again, when the challenges of a child are being addressed, these three bodies, as it were, start from the beginning in the face of children's challenges when certain things already exist at school, when certain things already exist in social services, and so on. In other words, the circle is still being recycled and run in vain on every side through sector thinking, not so much in terms of multiprofessional thinking and exchange of information. Of course, this has gone forward, but this is still such an everyday observation of the grass-roots vital field. Secondly, Mr President, there is such a small peculiarity in individual student care, which is based on the need for consent from both the small child and the parent when looking at the individual issue of the child. There are understandable things about this, but sometimes a problem is encountered, which is that the consent is not given, so the child does not consent to it or the parent does not consent or neither consents. In this case, the problem of student care is that what is now, what is the alternative, starting to think about and deal with the unquestionable problems of the child's challenge, and, Mr President, all too often it is necessary to ensure that the child has to be notified of child protection, so that in some way the problems that exist can be dealt with. That this is the case, that there are understandable aspects to this question of consent, and so on, but sometimes it hinders or at least complicates the child’s help.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u115	Mr President! Good things have been said here about this particular support, and this amendment of the law also helps to analyse matters. I have a little disagreement with Mr Heinonen about village schools, because there too, if sufficient resources are available and allocated, we will be able to provide three-tier support. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u116	Mr President! I believe that this proposal provides the basis for the development of quality education. We in this government have put a significant, fair amount of money into the development of education, and it is important that it is also monitored and promoted that it goes towards the development of quality education. I have already commented on the importance of this government's proposal from the point of view of the development of education. Education in Finland is of the highest quality, and that is the way it should be. That's what we work for in this house every day. Our strength is definitely homogeneity, and Karvi also plays an important role in ensuring that education will continue to be uniform throughout Finland, whether it is in villages or cities, or whatever the starting point is. We have also seen worrying developments in recent years, and I very much welcome the fact that we are now increasing these rights of access to information to the assessor of education, so that we will then also have the right information in the future to support the development of this training. Without this correction of the law, for example, knowledge of the need for special support and access to support will not, in my view, move at a sufficient level to ensure that the best interests of children can be controlled. Mr Risikko, the representative and chairman of the committee, gave a good speech on the way in which information is also limited, but I personally see that in this government proposal we are now opening up these data protection issues to such an extent that we will be able to develop education even better in the future. The Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy, in which I am also sitting, attaches great importance to ensuring that the education arrangements and learning outcomes of pupils in need, such as children and young people with disabilities, can be properly evaluated in the future. This time I will also focus on children's rights: I see that the original government proposal was not precise enough for the protection of children's data, and that is why we have now specified it in committee also in terms of children's rights, so that we do not share information that is not possible or harmful to the development and growth of the child. This is not the case here, for example, with hospital reports or information from the social media in such a way that it could be harmful to the child. I hope that Parliament will adopt this bill, but note that it has been specified in committee with regard to the rights of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u117	Mr President! Mr Kurvinen rightly raised the issue of the difficulty of exchanging information, which, at the moment, in the sector as well as in the sector, often undermines both the effectiveness and quality of work. The same situation and such interpretations of data protection have often also been raised in student care groups. In this regard, Mr Kivisaari has already said more about how this difficulty in cross-sectoral cooperation often lies ahead and hinders or at least slows down the student's support. I agree that this is what we should continue to look at and see what could be done about it. Well, the same question of interpretation has also been a challenge in this specific allocation of support, which was raised by Mr Heinonen. The idea of three-step support has been that each child will receive the most suitable support and receive it as close as possible and possibly there at his/her own school or educational institution, and I would say that it is precisely because of resource issues that it has not succeeded. Large cities have made it possible to combine larger groups and then take a few teachers into that big group, which can cause a student with difficulty in concentrating not to benefit from it, even if he is entitled to support it in the group. On the other hand, small towns may have had to move on longer journeys from home after their support. This resource issue is what needs to be resolved first in order to ensure that the best interests of the child are realised. Well, Mr Honkonen raised the question of the freedom of teachers. I would not go any further into developing such a control system for us. I trust that Finnish teachers can and are strong and competent in their field of educational science. What I think might be necessary — and this is also due to the resource situation in the municipalities, to the fact that work is being stepped up there so much that the weaknesses in quality may rather come from them — is that the human resources dimension discussed here should be considered in the future in areas other than health care. It may also be needed in teaching in the future. And another, where monitoring may be needed more, is the learning environment and the indoor climate of schools.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u118	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Hopsu here made a very good speech. As far as this supervision is concerned, I did not suggest before that our schools would need more supervision in that sense or that teachers would need more supervision, but I think that sometimes it is that, if such standards exist, they may also be a kind of protection for the teacher when there is too little resources. That, in fact, is what this measurement of care staff is all about, that there is a certain degree of security for the staff to be able to do their work in peace, whatever the method. I do not take the view that such a control system is needed, but in any case this border crossing should be clarified. I asked for this speech when Mr Kivisaari and others went through these various stages and steps with real expertise, how to get the necessary support for a troubled student, be it social services or youth services, or a school psychologist or others, whatever it may be. We have a major shortcoming that we cannot see a person as a whole in the various support services of society, but that there is always social work separately and then there is health care separately and that support and youth work separately within the school framework. To be able to see a person in a holistic way, especially a child and a young person, surely there would also be much better results in terms of support for the child and young person in the education system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u119	Mr President! I will speak again. — There has been a very good debate here. I personally think it is important for this legislation and for it to be precise, and this was made even better. But, overall, I consider that assessment and researched information to be very important. That is why we have at the time the Karvi, the Evaluation Centre, established that we should also be able to study information from the education side as the basis for decision-making. However, it is always important for us to stick to the knowledge studied and not just to mutate. What we need to do now with the information we are currently studying is to listen to the concerns of teachers, this three-step specific support and support measures in general. This triangularity has proved to be very complicated and bureaucratic, and this was recognized by the representative of the National Board of Education in our oral hearing last week when we talked about citizens' initiatives. I must admit that another important issue with regard to special support is this inquisition, from which it has been understood in recent years that it was not quite such a good idea. In other words, having a child who needs special support does not necessarily benefit from being in large groups. He often needs such a small group, especially as tailor-made forms of support. All in all, I think it is important that the good and safety of a person can be promoted through researched information, and I am in favour of the transmission of information, but we must always remember that data protection. Sometimes it may go a little overboard, but I always appeal to what Data Protection Officer Reijo Aarnio has wisely said that no data protection prevents us from helping people, and that is something we must always remember. But every once in a while we run into either the wrong interpretation or the wrong letter of the law, and then we have to change it. I hope that the authorities will cooperate despite the data protection provisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u120	Mr President! Perhaps in this debate we have already gone a little bit to what Mr Karvi could study and clarify, and that is extremely important and welcome. In particular, special education has emerged in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u125	Mr President! I know that Mr Heinonen is already an expert in education and education, because of his education and background. Nevertheless, I would like to raise a few points. Your concern for village schools is necessary and right, but at least as concerned as I am about such a special child in that big, huge giant school — that is to say, comparing village schools or larger schools with those of a small group student to the same challenges, no matter what the size of the school. I would also like to stress that special support is not as large as a small class, but in today's school world, even when it comes to inclusive thinking, the student of such special support is very often included in general education there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u129	Mr President! I don't have a teacher's background, but I'm a mother and I'm a municipal decision-maker. I have now been involved in various schools in the provinces, in primary schools, in secondary schools and in upper secondary schools, and mainly in the field of wood construction I have looked at school buildings, but of course I have talked a lot with students and teachers and also told about the work of the MP there. I have to say that this whole school system, which is taking part, almost splits the faculty in half as well. It's the kind of thing that's really come up in every school I've ever been to. It could be said that about half of the teachers have been in favour and half of the teachers have been in opposition. Teachers have, of course, been concerned about the student who would need a small group, but there has also been concern about the class's peace of work and how they manage there as teachers. When that debate has then been held there, the need has actually culminated in the assistant staff and the number of school assistants there in the big class. This has led to local government finances, and then we have started to wonder why it has not been possible to organise things in the best possible way in its own municipality. It is true that no matter how fine and good legislative proposals are produced here in Parliament, there must then be resources in the municipality to implement them. So without money, they won't come true. I myself am also concerned that the municipal economy is, in a way, putting our children and young people in an unequal position. In the municipalities where resources are available, perhaps even the children will do better, and this will not be the case in our country, and this should be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u130	Mr President! The debate has already gone a long way from the original government proposal, but in a few words I would like to comment on our current debate on school life, which is very relevant to this point. Instead of stalking in the school world, trust must have a place. I strongly believe that this government proposal does not mean that we should go on a stakeout, but rather makes it possible to develop education with information, i.e. to collect information so that education is developed in the right direction. Among other things, Mr Kurvinen and Mr Hopsu raised the difficulty of exchanging information. So there's more to the life of a child or a young person than a classroom: There are hobbies there — hopefully all children and young people have hobbies, and if not, this government will work to ensure that everyone will have other places to learn in the future. Then there may be customers of social welfare and health services — when there was a good talk of children who needed support, for example, many of them have some need for social welfare and health services. It consists of a child around such a multi-disciplinary group that should together discuss the best of the child. We often argue that data protection does not allow the information of the child to be shared between these adults who are close to the child, but in reality, for example, the programme for changing child and family services has already tried to sit down at the same table and discuss matters of one child or young person. Even the current legislation makes it possible to have quite a lot of common discussions at the table, at least if the child or young person has permission to do so. This multidisciplinary student care group practice has been put into practice in the field of child and family services, and I hope that the focus will now also be on how it works at the moment and whether this multidisciplinary student care group practice can be taken into account everywhere, so that the child can have the support he deserves. I am also very concerned that when these decisions of support are taken when decisions are made about the future of a child and a young person, whether we have sufficient consultation with the child and the young person themselves and whether we seriously take into account the views of the child’s parents. This is certainly a lack of resources, but it seems that this consultation often remains in the school's everyday life and should be given particular attention. Fortunately, 29 million additional resources will now be allocated to the development of student care,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u131	At the beginning of his speech, Mr Kempp said that this debate, which is now under way, had slipped quite far away from this subject, that is to say, from the government's proposal. I would like to ask that the next speakers return the debate to what should be discussed, and Mr Kinnunen shows the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u133	Mr President! Karvi's work is important and must be supported by all possible means, just as this legislation wants to facilitate access to information and extend the right to information, and of course resources must also be sufficient. Of course, it will come to the point where we will have to look at those places where there are such situations in particular, that our comprehensive school, for example, is no longer equal in terms of accessibility or in terms of these special support or learning opportunities for talented children. In my opinion, at the time of the debate, when we were somewhat distracted by each of us on a wider path, Mr Huttunen raised a very relevant question, saying that about half of the teachers are opposed and half are in favour. It tells us precisely that the resources are very different in different municipalities, in different cities, even between different schools. In fact, in my opinion, this is the big greeting of this debate to Mr Karville, that you should take this up, find out and see how our comprehensive school operates today, whether it is equal, for example, from the point of view of accessibility. When the representative, Mr Kivisaari, took the floor there, it may have given the impression that we, as the breeders of OKL in Hämeenlinna, would have disagreed in some way on this, but we do not agree with it, so these problems exist in both small and large schools. I myself specifically wanted to open up this problem, which is perhaps being exacerbated at the moment by the acceleration of urbanisation and the condensation of the school network. I'll stick to the next step even better on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u135	Mr President! This government proposal, the report of which we are now discussing, is therefore a question of the right of access to information of the National Education Evaluation Centre, without prejudice to these confidentiality rules, and although the debate may have been somewhat broad, I believe that the important points that the Centre should be raising in the future — for example, this question raised by Mrs Kemppi on the need for multiprofessional cooperation. If you consider, for example, the school bullying phenomenon, which, despite many projects, such as the Nice School project, is still a very persistent problem, it really needs this cross-sectoral cooperation, and it is also important that the National Education Evaluation Centre should be informed about the situation of students who have been subjected to school bullying in order to develop practices that can address these problems as early as possible. On this multi-professional cooperation, I would like to highlight one problem: In such serious situations, where crimes against the student can even be spoken of, Ankkuri activities have been used, which is a multi-professional cooperation, but in practice cooperation between the school and the Ankkuri team has been problematic, in practice it has not worked. I think it would be good, for example, to draw attention to this in this evaluation. As far as the integration of special pupils is concerned, I would like to say that it is a beautiful idea for students who need special support to be integrated into general education, but it is essential that sufficient resources be allocated to it. Then, on the other hand, there are those children for whom it is definitely better to have their own small group education, and that too should be the right.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u136	Mr President! I would also like to speak very broadly on the subject, but when I already told you that we stand firm here, I will not take a stand on this point in the Inquisition or village schools, even though they are close to my heart. However, this government proposal concerns data protection and its extension in relation to the evaluation of education. The chairman of the committee gave a very good speech earlier, where he also stressed the difficulties in data protection. All in all, if you look at Finnish legislation and how the data protection obligation has been reformed, you can also say that sometimes you get the feeling that you are waving a dog or a dog at a tail. It cannot be that, based on data protection, we always renew all the good objectives and have to make unreasonable compromises. However, the reason why the chairman of the committee, like myself and the rest of the committee, has been in favour of these blackmails on the original government proposal is that the sharing of information must not in any way cause any harm to the child itself. Such situations, where there is reason to suspect that information can be used against the child or his or her growth, must already be able to prevent and eliminate at the legislative level. As far as I am concerned, this proposal, which we are now discussing after the committee debate, is now the basis on which I am able to put my back straight to trust that it will provide adequate protection for the child himself, so that he is safe to study and that the Finnish school will continue to be able to tell challenges and ask for help without others knowing or harming himself. I very much hope that Parliament will adopt this bill, because this is also critical of our ability to develop our education. In the current situation, we have so little information that it is very challenging to develop education and monitor its quality in all its aspects. Especially for needy children, this is a critical government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u137	Mr President! I trust the Committee on Culture's judgment in this limitation which it has made to this information. This sensitive information concerns, for example, the medical assessments or psychological assessments underlying the organisation of the aid, the documents of health care or social care professionals or other documents of the student care services, and it is certainly important that sensitive information does not spread into the hands that could then cause harm to the child, but it would be very important, in general terms, that, when the training is evaluated, information should also be provided on these difficult situations, without identifying the individuals and their situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u138	Your Honor! That is what Mr Räsänen meant, but when I listened, I may have misunderstood, and I shall say for certain, that this is a restriction on the fact that, for example, medical or psychological information is not passed on to Mr Karvi. That is certainly what was meant to be said, but for the sake of clarity I repeat. In other words, doctors and psychologists do not go to Karvi's knowledge, but there is a purely formal development of education, pedagogical solutions, and it provides information other than this information on the social side.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u139	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 3/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Chairman of the Committee, represented by Mr Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u140	Mr President! This is therefore a report by the Administrative Committee on the Government's proposal for a law amending the law on the organisation of state-owned ICT services. The proposal seeks to repeal the provisions on the government of the Valtori service centre and to abolish its government. In addition, the scope of the criminal liability of staff will be clarified. The change makes Valtor's steering structure clearer and simpler when the Ministry of Finance is responsible only. This is intended to contribute to the achievement of the objectives and to reduce the problems. The committee is in favour of this change, but also believes that it does not in itself solve the problems of service production. However, the committee believes that improving customer guidance and customer orientation does not require immediate legislative changes, but rather a more effective use of existing regulation. The Committee also considers it important that changes do not undermine the ability of the safety authorities to influence Valtor's development and services. The service provider shall distinguish the activities referred to in the TUVE Act from activities other than those covered by the TUVE Act in an administrative, operational and economic manner. The committee has repeatedly drawn attention, including in its annual budget statements, to the increasing ict costs of the state. For example, in last year's budget opinion, the committee has stated that the costs of the state information system are high and seem to continue to rise annually without the means available to those using the systems to curb the rise. The main problem is that the increased costs are, in principle, covered by low operating costs without compensation. Even the cost benefits planned for Valtor have not materialised, on the contrary. At the same time, the services do not fully meet the needs of the customers. Last autumn there was a particularly large number of disruptions, such as core network services, videoconferencing services, remote access solutions, mobile services and some e-mail services. The Committee considers these widespread disturbances to be extremely worrying and notes that their occurrence must be prevented by all means available. Mr President! The committee's report proposes that Parliament adopt, without amendment, the bill contained in the government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u141	Mr President! As the Chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Purra, has just said, the aim of the Government proposal is to simplify and clarify the guidance of Valtor, a service centre that provides state-owned information technology and information systems services. One of the key changes in the proposal is the abolition of Valtor's government, and therefore Valtor's CEO would be appointed by the Government instead of the Government in the future. The tasks of Valtor’s winding-up board are therefore transferred to the Managing Director of Valtor. I see the new Valtor steering model as good. Instead of being directed by both the Ministry of Finance and the Valtor government, I think it is sensible that the guidance should now be clarified and simplified in such a way as to strengthen the role of the Ministry of Finance. It is also important that the position of the Customer Consultation Board will be strengthened and clarified in the future. Mr President! With regard to Valtor, consideration of costs and quality is central. Until now, the costs of centralised services have still been high, perhaps too high, and the services have not met the needs of all customers. Attention must also be paid to the reliability of services, and decisive measures must be taken to develop services and operational security. According to a report received by the Administrative Committee, a quality programme focusing on improving the usability of services has been launched in Valtori. It is to be hoped that Valtori will be able to develop its services in such a way as to improve the prospects for the renewal of the agencies and institutions that are its customers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u142	Mr President! I shall begin in exactly the same way as Mrs Viljanen: as the chairman of the Administrative Committee has just said, the costs of state information systems are high. They only seem to continue to continue their annual increase without the authorities using the schemes having the means to curb the increase in annual costs. These increase the cost of purchasing, maintaining and operating — but, in principle, low operating costs without comprehensive compensation for costs and their increase. The Administrative Committee therefore considered it necessary for the State to invest in the necessary customer and contract skills and in the requirements for system suppliers to be effective, usable and user-friendly. One might imagine that these would be quite normal demands and self-evidents when we started ordering state-level telecommunications systems, and one might imagine that the committee would not have to comment and mention them separately. History has shown, however, that our committee's concern is justified. Contractual competence is also an important part of managing operating costs for the life cycle of ict systems, since overall costs, however, determine how expensive or inexpensive the system has been. The aim of this organisational reform is to enhance, rationalise and, above all, improve the quality and reliability of operations. I can therefore say that the government's bill to this end is very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-26-ps-13.u143	Mr President! Our committee, the chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Purra, presented this very well, so I will not repeat what he has said. In this respect, colleagues in committee have also drawn attention to important issues. We had an in-depth consultation on this subject in committee, and, as this report shows, we were actually dealing not only with this change in the administrative system itself but also with the status of staff, but also with these problems in the information systems and the problems involved in their procurement. I myself started to think a little about this in the sense that what can really be done about these matters, other than to write in the report, is to make them work better than they are currently doing. Valtori is a working community of 1,400 people, responsible for 92,000 workstations and has a budget of more than EUR 300 million. It is responsible for the information management of government agencies, including the Prime Minister’s Office, the Police Board, Vero and many other dozens of units. During the hearings, I compared it to my former working community in Helsinki and Uusimaa, where I thought the information administration was very large in itself, but this Valtori complex is three times bigger. Well, what would be the alternative now that we have expressed our criticism here? Would it be an option for each government agency to be responsible for its own IT management to make the procurement itself, to decide for itself how it will develop its IT management? I'm sure that wouldn't be the right option. That would certainly be more expensive than the present centralised system. The result is that the centralised system is better than the decentralised system. Now the debate around the centralised system — in this case Valtor or the Senate — often takes place so that these real estate and ict expenses are now absorbed by the operating resources. Well, in my opinion, there is such a problem that no agency should be provided with ict or better facilities unless it helps to carry out its basic task more productively and better than it has done in the past. And now we should get to grips with this. It cannot be that some agency is being pushed into an ict system and then the agency is starting to stalemate, that it is now eating up our human resources and that we can no longer provide services, but that its reform must leave the agency ahead of productivity, and that it must introduce systems that increase productivity. This is Valtor's role, and that's how you should understand it.
