ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of one hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u2	Mr President! I am very pleased and proud to present the long-awaited proposal of a government to strengthen the Act on Elderly Services. In the Government's proposal, the Act on Elderly Services would include provisions on the size of personnel to be used in the 24-hour care of elderly persons, which would be 0.7 employees per customer. It is also proposed to include in the Act on Elderly Services a provision on a national system for monitoring and evaluating the needs of an elderly person. The proposal implements the constitutional right of older people to the necessary care and adequate social and health care services. The presentation supports the right of older people to live a dignified and meaningful life even in the last years of their lives. The proposal improves customer and patient safety by ensuring that there are sufficient staff in charge of care and care. A coherent system of performance and service needs assessment will improve the knowledge base on services for older people. This will allow better planning, monitoring, evaluation and development of treatment. The equality of customers in services will also be strengthened. The provision of adequate staff in the services of the elderly has been discussed for a long time, at least since the preparation of the Act on Elderly Services, i.e. the last ten years. As we all know, the quality of services for older people has been a major problem in recent years. According to the findings of the supervisory authorities and also of the family, it is too small a number of staff and that the working time of trained staff is directed at tasks other than caring for the well-being of the elderly. These two criticisms are now corrected by this bill, which increases staff and defines immediate work as something that can only be done by care and care professionals. The minimum size of staff in 24-hour care is now laid down by law, because the records in the quality recommendation have not been sufficient to safeguard the quality of services. The most important change to the current situation is the adequacy of the number of personnel specifically directed by the quality recommendation, i.e., in practice, that after the law enters into force, employees are only counted in the size of the personnel when they do direct customer work. The support work will then be separate. Support work from laundry to cleaning is no longer the time for nurses, and it will not be out of customer work in the future. At the level of the recommendation, the current size of personnel becomes a genuine management measure, which only takes into account the actual direct customer work. An enhanced service housing unit is his home for an elderly customer. In addition to treatment, life must include activities other than treatment. It is important that the unit includes not only carers but also other customer workers, such as geronomists who maintain customers’ ability to function, physiotherapists, occupational therapists or rehabilitation instructors. They are proposed to be counted for immediate customer work, as is the case today, but not for other activities, of course. The measurement only takes into account the size of the unit, i.e. the actual work input of employees who are on-site and directly engaged in customer work in relation to the number of customers. The implementation of the personnel size would be assessed over a three-week follow-up period corresponding to the length of the working time schedule in accordance with the Working Time Act. Indirect support work would no longer be counted against the size of any professional group. The management and administrative work of the director or responsible person of the operational unit would also be indirect work, as is the case today. It is proposed to include in the Old Age Services Act a provision on a national harmonised monitoring and evaluation system for determining and evaluating the need for services. There is scientific evidence of the benefits of the RAI assessment system and there is experience of its use over a period of 20 years. The aim is to obtain comparable information on service needs and services for older people through a common evaluation and planning tool. The Government proposes that the Act should enter into force on 1 August 2020. From then on, only those with immediate customer work would be counted in the personnel size. However, a transitional period is proposed to prepare for an increase in staff needs due to the fact that the situation on the ground is very different. Experts say that before 1.4.2023, the 0.7 should only be below the scale if the operating unit is able to ensure patient safety and the quality of the services. However, the size should be at least 0.5 employees per customer everywhere after the entry into force of the Act. This, therefore, is now being tailored to a transitional period that would allow us to cope with the needs of the carers and the need for people to receive quality and improved care. The RAI evaluation system should then be introduced at the latest at the end of the transitional period. However, measures to implement it will be taken as soon as the law enters into force. The reform has now started with the most urgent needs. In the background, significant flaws and shortcomings have jeopardised customer and patient safety, especially in enhanced service housing, which none of us have been left cold. Throughout the preparation process, the Government has considered it important that the situation of home care be assessed and taken into account. Furthermore, the national approach is that an elderly person is entitled to live in his or her own home even when his or her ability to function has deteriorated. No one should therefore have to move out of their home because of the lack of adequate services. The second phase of the reform will assess ways of providing adequate home care. The need to clarify the regulatory framework for controls will also be examined and other development needs identified in the preparation of the reform will be assessed. The proposals are based on a broad-based debate which was launched during the last term of government. One of the objectives of the Government Programme is to promote age-friendliness throughout society, and this theme is also promoted in the name of the intersectoral age programme in preparation. One of the content areas of the age programme is the exploitation of technology, and we still have untapped opportunities for it. During the course of the current government, quality recommendations are also being prepared, which will become part of this same process when the second phase updates of the Act on services for the elderly come. Mr President! I would like to thank you for the opportunity to present this bill in Parliament and say that we are committed to implementing the Government Programme's record of binding human resources, and we will also allocate financial resources to it in the budgetary plan and budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u7	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. This proposal has been awaited for Parliament. We need to be able to invest more in care for the elderly, and something about the state of our care for the elderly tells us,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u11	Mr President! In recent years we have been talked about and worried about the quality of care for the elderly. When care entrepreneurs, poor supervision, a circular door effect or the frequent turnover of a home nurse have been lifted to the beak of the stick. It is wrong to imagine that only a lack of human resources would remedy the whole situation, although it will certainly help a great deal. I am sure that these positive aspects will emerge in the debate, so I will try to raise the issue a little further. In a tight economic climate, municipalities have tried to find ways to keep rising social spending under control. In addition to the self-produced service, there has been an increase in competitive, privately purchased, cheaper and originally quality-based service production. The main issue with the invitations to tender has been the issue of affordability, and so to speak, what has been ordered has been received. On the other hand, quality control in its own service or in the purchased service has not been sufficient. Another challenge is the shortage of personnel and the trickery of the staff. This is something we need to be able to address. Messages about heavy work have already influenced the application to the care sector at a time when the need for care increases as the age groups grow.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u12	Mr President! It goes without saying that this bill is also important and significant for the Finns. We've been working here for years. I've been working as a nurse myself for almost 24 years, and I know what we're talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you this: Is there any reason to water down this incredibly important bill? Is there enough money and resources to get this important law moving forward now? Is this bill in any way linked to the future social reform, because in 23 years there will be a lot of different things coming? If there is no progress, what will happen to this important law and its desire to get 0.7-manufacturing in Finland? I would also like to ask the question of liability: how is it ensured that all those involved in nursing work know their responsibilities and control their patient safety, because there will also be those who assist them in the future, such as care workers?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u13	Mr President! This is a very important government bill which will improve the quality of care for the elderly. Reference has already been made here to the negative events that have been going through this topic recently. These numbers, 0.7 and so on, may be difficult to understand, but if I concreteise them, it is 168 hours a week. I hope no nurse does a longer shift than 38 to 40 hours a week. When we divide this carer into that unit, in practice, we are now able, compared to that 0.5 level, to raise the daily shift from five to seven and the evening shift from four to seven employees, as everyone can understand. In a unit the size of which is the night shift, both now and in the future, the two will suffice. So this is really important legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u14	Mr President! First of all, warm thanks to the government for this presentation. I would like to point out that these people who are in 24-hour care, up to 95% of whom have memory problems or symptoms, i.e. they are our extremely vulnerable neighbors, and when these recommendations, which have been lacking — quality recommendations since 2001 — have been successful, that is why this proposal is all in all to come here. I consider this to be very important for the people being treated, for the family and, of course, for the staff as well. This will also improve the ability of staff to cope, and this is an important reason for this proposal. But at the same time I think that management in these nursing homes, working conditions, all this is what we can do to improve our endurance. And I agree with the idea that this is a good start for the government, but we have to invest in home care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u17	Mr President! The obligation to raise the size of personnel to 0.7 professionals per client obviously improves the care and safety of the elderly, but this kind of statutory obligation does not remove almost all the problems — I don’t think anyone thinks so — and the supervision must be in order. But when you know what the situation in local government finances in general, the availability of staff, the labour market situation in the care sector and the legitimate wage requirements of care workers, the equation is very difficult. Minister Kiuru rightly stressed that this is one part of the services, the service chains. I am quite sure that, if legislation fails to define local services with sufficient precision and the availability of local services with a time and mile limit, the elderly in remote regions, whatever the model of service production, will be left without care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u18	Mr President, värderade talman! The Government’s proposal to increase the nursing qualification in the 24-hour care of elderly people is an important line of action. We want to invest in the elderly. It costs money, but this is a priority issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u19	Mr President! The regulation of the nurse dimension is an expected and very welcome reform, thank you for that, but the funding and practical implementation of this reform are worrying. It is unfortunate that even at the moment local authorities and joint municipal authorities are sending out a completely different message to carers than what is needed, i.e. there are these negotiations which, on the contrary, are reducing the number of carers and they are already working elsewhere at the moment. With regard to funding, I would like to highlight in particular this intention to abolish Kela compensations. This is an unfortunate decision, because in practice it undermines citizens' access to specialist services. This is a problem especially for people on low and middle incomes, and it also affects women, for example, who primarily use private gynaecologist services, while increasing the pressure on public health care and health centres. I hope that you will withdraw from this motion and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u22	Mr President! The idea of the performance is good, but it does not address two problems. First of all, the nursing work done by a nurse and others with the elderly is not attractive as a profession. Of course, hiring is a matter of its own. We cannot just talk about hiring a nurse, but we must always remember all the others who do heavy and responsible care or otherwise participate in it, the local nurses and institutional nurses. Money does not solve everything, but it also matters how you feel you can influence your work and be respected as a member of the work community. What do we do about these things? The government proposal does not apply to all critical parts of care for the elderly, i.e. home care. On the contrary, the size can be harmful to home care and those working there switch to work for long-term care. There are already too few nurses working at home. Now the individual nurse has too many customers and too little time at each customer’s place. I'm sure I'm familiar with inadequacy as a home care worker.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u24	Mr President! I would also like to thank the government, and in particular Minister Kiuru, for this very important bill. It is also good to hear that the opposition parties broadly support this binding staffing. This is too long awaited, and I would perhaps like to stress that it is important that changes take place now, because we have an extremely low level of care. We have extremely qualified nurses, but we can't see it. With this we are improving people’s fundamental rights — as has been rightly said here, the majority of people are very vulnerable, there are people with memory disorders — but at the same time we are also improving working and well-being in this care and care sector, and I see this as extremely important. I would also like to thank Minister Kiuru for the bill on customer fees that has been passed today, which also gives us justice to this payment policy for enhanced service housing, and this too is extremely important from the point of view of these people. For further preparation, I would like to ask you about these quality recommendations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u25	A reply to the Minister a little later. The Prime Minister asked for the floor, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u26	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Good care for the elderly, decent care and care, is a matter of heart for the government. It is a value choice that we invest in the good care and care of the elderly and that we value the people who have built this country to care for us. They deserve respect, and they deserve decent care. The government is working on it, and as part of this, this proposal on the size of the 0.7 staff will be presented. That alone is not enough, but it is a very important step forward. And I am also very pleased and glad that the Coalition Party has announced yesterday that it will support this 0.7 staffing proposal, i.e. if I look at this Chamber, then I see that from left to right all the parliamentary parties are behind this proposal, and together we send a strong message that improvements need to be made to the situation of the elderly in Finland. This is an important message from this hall to send forward. As far as this funding, which has been asked, is concerned, the government has also gone through very carefully the fact that this proposal can be financed and financed within the framework in a responsible manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u29	Mr President! It is extremely important, Minister, that we get the carer's size right, that no one will deny it, but there are some things I would like to raise here, in particular. First of all, I would like to raise these wards, that we must also ensure that the compartments are also found — quite a lot of them have been closed down and closed down. Inpatient care is also needed. Point 2) is the migration rally for the elderly. That is impossible when people who live in the last few years of their lives are now subjected to that migration ramba. Their seats vary from place to place, no matter how many times in a few years. As item 3), I would like to draw attention to home care. This must not happen in the way that home care will then be spared. It's really wrong if you save it. It may be that very poor elderly people are left at home and not taken care of. You have to take care of it. As item 4), I would like to highlight the issue of informal care. It will be wonderful if you finally get tax-free support for informal care and come with such criteria as are the whole of Finland. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u30	Mr President! Nurseship is an important step in improving the services of the elderly. It should only take into account the entire care of the elderly, all the elderly who need care and care. You have said here that there have been shortcomings in 24-hour care, and we know that this has just been the case, but there are also deficiencies in home care. You may not know that — I know, I have been on duty for more than ten years and I have seen the misery of home care. This presentation improves one part of the whole, but at the same time turns its back on the other
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u35	Mr President! The Parliamentary Group of the Centre Party also welcomes this law, which will improve nursing standards and care for the elderly here in Finland. The new definition of carers means that we will need thousands of new carers over the next few years, and I would now like to hear from the Minister for Social Affairs and Health how you have planned this additional carer training now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u36	Mr President! The immediate customer work of the elderly includes care, care and rehabilitation, as well as tasks that promote and maintain the ability to function. There's a human being at the center. Man’s ability to function is a vast entity that can be influenced in many ways, sometimes with very simple things. Good care and care create a sense of security and ability and provide a safe environment for residents. By considering the possibilities of multiprofessionalism as part of good care for the elderly, we can transform human activities into activities. A small allowance for weight shifting in daily activities and directing the use of the aid or reaching the top shelf of a cup of coffee — the new management of older people and the multi-professionalism it brings with them make those activities even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u37	Mr President! One important part of the improvement of the elderly services sector is now being achieved. The care crisis in elderly services has been allowed to continue for far too long in this country. If it had been taken care of already in 2012,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u40	Mr President! The elderly need to be taken care of, that is quite clear. For the assembly, for us, this 0.7-management measure is suitable as part of a whole where the services of every elderly person, including an elderly person living at home, are provided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u47	Mr President! The number of elderly people in need of service is growing rapidly, while the number of elderly people is also increasing. The home is now a prison for many elderly people, and is it now the case that the government is going to reduce home care services even further and leave the elderly alone at home and then transfer 0.7 to the enhanced service units? The Minister did say just now that the needs of home care are being assessed. How quickly is it estimated that it will not happen, then, that staff from home care will be transferred to improved service housing? When it comes to funding, it is said that digitalisation is being exploited, is it then that the old man at home will look at the number of the pizza taxi from the iPad, that he will get food, or he will Google to see what treatment he needs? Is this what digitalization is? And if the government is going to cut private care for Kela benefits, then that will inevitably increase the demand for public health care. What happens to a medical guarantee when more people get there to treat? And when we talk about funding: we have a population that grows old,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u48	I've slipped a little bit out of this 1-minute deadline. I see now that you're trying to pull back into this line. — Representative Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Just as Mr Orpo said, the valuable old age of the elderly is an honour, and it is a special honour for us newer generations to take care of those who have built this common fatherland. I would like to thank the government and the Minister for finally taking this up. I also think it is important, as has been said all around the Chamber, that we really take care of all the elderly and that if such omissions happen, which unfortunately have happened, they too will be tackled and, if necessary, sanctions will be imposed, so that this does not happen in the future. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how to ensure that these important and valuable promises and actions are adhered to, and how to ensure that, on the one hand, if there are any irregularities of this kind, they will be addressed and will not be repeated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u50	Mr President! It is very important that this personnel measurement now only takes into account the staff working for the immediate customer, and in future there will have to be seven carers for each of the ten people to be cared for. Indirect work, i.e. support services, is not taken into account in this proposal, but support services must be provided with a separate resource outside the scope of this human resources measure. The purpose of this proposal is now to ensure that the operating units have sufficient staff to carry out their duties with care and care. Nurses must be able to concentrate on nursing work in the future and their working hours must not really be spent on providing support services. This Chamber has now raised the question of the impact of the human dimension on home service staff, on the resources of home care. That is why I would like to ask Minister Kiuru: is it not, Minister, that in the second part of the reform of the Act on Elderly Services, the government will also find ways to ensure that this home care is adequate?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u51	Mr President! I would have asked about the progress of self-determination. There has now been talk of home care, where, according to the government’s proposal, about 60 per cent of the elderly are elderly, and the Finns of Peru have presented one solution to it: the tax exemption of informal care and the investment in home care. But really 95% of people in institutional care are memory-diseased, and we have a significant gap in the fact that we do not have legal restrictions on the self-determination of the elderly — this is a significant deficiency, and it is the largest group of customers. How's this going? This has been on the table for about ten years now — Mr Guzenina spoke of these ten years — and it is a very significant law. It's still waiting for whoever did it. There are also very important tools for the guardian authority to help older people who are, so to speak, financially related to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u52	Mr President! There is a very good objective in our hands, and one can say that care for the elderly needs to be strengthened: more hands are needed. It is also good that efforts are now being made to harmonise this method of calculating the dimension across Finland. It hasn't always been the same everywhere. However, the entire care of the elderly should be raised to the Rinna right now. The situation of day-to-day care is not yet resolved with this dimension, but also needs to be updated on quality recommendations — what it is like to have a good day-to-day life in a group home. At the same time, it is absolutely necessary to carry the home care mentioned here as well. Already, in some municipalities, for example, no new clients could be taken home when no replacements were received at Christmas. The situation is already acute and thousands more experts will be needed. How is it ensured that experts are provided with more than paper, so that older people do not remain in home care without adequate care? That too needs to be strengthened. The need for education is enormous. Finally, there is the question of funding: this is something that must be reserved for.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u53	Mr President! The Left Alliance is also pleased to welcome this government proposal and gives all its support to Minister Kiuru and the Government for the completion of this work and for the staffing of 0.7 to be binding on the law. This requires a lot of action. This requires securing the number of staff, securing access. We need places to train, places to start, more places to start. Hopefully, these recipients and providers will also be found and these places will be added to all parts of Finland. It is very important that this signal is sent out of this Chamber in a uniform manner to our valuable care staff in order to put it to the forefront here. It is a very important attraction. And I have understood that this government will also take care of the elderly there, and also of the family carers and their ability to cope, so we are on the right track. Thank you for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u54	Mr President! Thank you to the government for this wonderful performance. Minister Kiuru said he was happy and proud, and that is the way to be. I do not think that this is the kind of thing that we should fight about very much in this Chamber. There is no point in contrasting home care or enhanced service housing with institutional housing. We all know in this Chamber that both these services are in crisis. We know which way we've been going. This situation has not developed in a year or two, but is a ten-year, if not longer, course. There's a lot of good in this government proposal. There is a uniform assessment of the need for services, which ensures the equality of customers through the RAI system. I believe that the distinction between immediate care and indirect work is important. It is true that this also involves issues such as home care and its future, access to nurses and other issues. But the government is here for that — we are all here for that — that we are working for
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u55	Mr President! It is good that human resources are invested, but it is really good to talk here about the need to invest in all care for the elderly, including home care, family care, everything. Of course, the only worry that many of us here have is where to get these nurses. When I myself have been a health - care teacher for over a decade, I know that it is not quite simple. This already requires 4300 nurses and takes about 4 to 6 years for them to be trained, and they should not be taken from disabled people or from home care. Then a free tip for you: While you are doing that old-age service law, strengthen the rights of the elderly to receive services. At present, the law is subject-related and does not have subjective rights to access services. What do you do with nurses if you can't get to them? That is why I would say that you should strengthen the rights. If you do not believe me, believe Investigator Hanna-Kaisa Hoppania, who has analysed the old-age service law and found that rights are missing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u57	Mr President! Ten years from now, we're gonna need 80,000 nurses. The need for an increase in nursing care, about 30,000 nurses, is very challenging to achieve. Of course, the increase in starting places must be significant, but this in itself does not solve anything, because the attractiveness of the sector is becoming less attractive for the same reason that trained nurses are fleeing the sector: working conditions whose burden is not compensated for by pay. Up to 40% of nurses are planning to change the industry. Departure from the sector is especially considered by experienced but still excellent working age nurses aged between 30 and 50. There would already be enough nurses in Finland if the nurses were to do the work they were trained for. According to a study by THL, 72,000 people with medical training are employed in other fields. I ask the Minister how to get these people back. How do you intend to ensure that those working in this field do not leave?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u58	Mr President! I am proud of the tone of the debate today, because there has been a great deal of talk about ageing. It must be the case that ageing is not an expense, but rather a right for all of us in life. We're all getting older, that's obvious. I would pay attention not only to the shortcomings reported a year ago in the care of elderly people, but also to the lack of customer guidance, which has already been the subject of some debate here. It cannot be that not everyone has access to enhanced service housing. In particular, I am concerned about how we can find these places for enhanced service housing and how we can bring our elderly people into care. Minister Kiuru, how do we respond to this issue of security so that people will continue to be covered by care? This government proposal is just a step in the right direction,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u59	Mr President! Even today, a lot of nurses are doing their valuable work. With their hands they hold hands, help to eat, change clothes, move and rest. They say that they encourage, comfort, and meet, that I will take care of you. Yes, they have a desire, a will, and a professional capacity to help, but even when hand pairs are limited, nurses cannot do everything. That professional group, which this society of ours has far too little appreciation for, despite the fact that they are the very ones who will care for us and our loved ones one day. That is why I would now like to thank the government for finally setting up a permanent carership. This should have been done a long time ago, because many of those who could have had an impact on the quality of old age by setting it up are no longer here. Humanity is never the right place to save. That is why we Greens now believe that this should be done with sustainable funding. We should not set any age groups or groups of people against each other. Let's not improve the position of one group by weakening another. It's not like a nurse can solve all the problems, but it's important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u60	Mr President! Thank you very much to the Marin government and Minister Kiuru for bringing this proposal to us for debate. This is a step in the right direction, and I am glad to welcome the fact that we can finally raise this dimension from 0.5 to 0.7. I myself come from that western border, and we have quite a few nurses moving to both Sweden and Norway, some of them in pursuit of its better pay, some of them in pursuit of better working conditions, but I believe that this presentation will make a difference so that when we add nurses to these enhanced service housing units, we will also be happy to return home to work with care. To the extent that it is a good thing that there is a sufficient transitional period for municipalities to be given sufficient time to hire these carers. We now have this proposal before the Constitutional Committee and we will go over it carefully there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u61	Mr President! The right to dignified ageing should be seen as a fundamental right. Everyone deserves quality services regardless of age, including the elderly, who are rarely able to stand up for their own rights. Increasing the size of personnel to 0.7 professionals per client improves the care and safety of the elderly. Private care giants have forged profits at the expense of the well-being of the elderly by compromising the number of staff and thus the quality of care, and this ruthless trickling stops now, as long as the new staffing is also monitored effectively. The Left Alliance is pleased that the Marin government is finally carrying out this reform, which has been held back by the Coalition Party in particular for almost a decade. Mr Kiuru, I would have asked how the government will improve the effectiveness of monitoring staffing in the future, particularly with regard to these private carers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u62	Mr President! Thank you for this proposal, which is exactly what is needed. But here are some problems. First of all, we really are running out of that money. 70 million has been earmarked for this since 2023. Then there are these abstract issues, the promotion of digitalisation and the enhancement of purchasing services, and there is unfortunately no euro — and this money must be found because, as has been said, it comes from within the framework. A few essential points: I hope that this will be the subject of this comprehensive evaluation of care chains, namely home care, informal care. I also hope that it will be seen here that this will not be allowed to giggle in the municipalities with the words: is it institutional care, enhanced service housing or some other kind of service housing that will get us out of this dimension? Then, with regard to staff: this is precisely a human resources measure, not a carer's qualification, and it is good to note that this is now calculated as follows:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u63	Mr President! As has been said here from the mouth of many members of the Assembly, this is all right for us as part of the whole. But I am a little concerned about this road map for these future nurses. This 4300 to 4,400 nurses who should be here in a few years — it will be a problem. But, in fact, Mr Purra raised the even greater problem that, in 2030, we need its 80,000 nurses, which means that if we triple the training places for local nurses today, it will not even be enough. So what is this longer-term road map to the fact that these carers really are in the industry is the great concern that the assembly and presumably the whole Chamber are concerned about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u64	Mr President! It is great that today, indeed, this tone of debate is respectful — much better than yesterday, when we touched on the same subject. A number of concerns have been raised here about this nursing dimension. I am sure they are justifiable, but I must say in the direction of the opposition, the National Coalition Party and the Finns of Peru that the greatest concern would be that this dimension would still not be achieved. There is concern that staff can leave home care, but even more worry is that if this dimension does not come, our young students, those in the industry and those in the industry will see that there is enough talk about care for the elderly, but nothing will ever be done. This dimension is needed now. But I would also like to say that all work with older people is valuable, including repairing those pipes. All people are needed. I would also like to point out to the debate that there is one living thing here. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u65	Mr President! I thank the government for this very good proposal. This recording of the personnel dimension in the law responds to the hopes and loud cries of the field in the 24-hour enhanced service housing there. In addition to this, it should also be borne in mind that, in addition to the number of employees, the development of services, multi-professional cooperation and the re-examination of the division of labour play a major role in the care of older people. Here I hear concerns about home care, but I personally do not see this reform as a threat to home care, but as a prelude to how to start the restoration of good care for the elderly in the care of the elderly as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u66	Mr President! It is a good thing that this debate has raised this concern about the state of home care, because we know that these crises have also occurred in home care throughout the country, and we must get all care for the elderly in order, and not just one aspect of it. I'm glad they're talking about home care. The proposal is, of course, good and worthy of support, but the problem here is that, firstly, this is far too late, and secondly, that there are no nurses to be assigned to it and there is certainly no money to it. In fact, the only viable financial transaction that the government has considered is this cut in Kela compensation for private health care, which has the adverse effects mentioned earlier. In addition, I would point out that people’s admission to the doctor’s office will further increase the pressure on access to primary health care. Savings from digitalisation — who still believes in them? Year after year, new expensive and inefficient systems will come, the savings of digitalisation will not be seen anywhere. How could medicines be cut off as the government has considered? So I ask the government that if and when this financial base of yours turns out to be wishful thinking, what will be done? Will the costs be brought down on the next government?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u68	Mr President! Good and human treatment belongs to every elderly person. The Coalition Party is strongly committed to the work that ensures quality care and that care providers are provided everywhere in the care of the elderly. But the question is how committed the government is. If you look at the budget line, there was a huge increase in government spending and the targets were certainly good, but coldly prioritised the services of the elderly. When this bill was in the consultation, the Ministry of Finance stated that your budget decision and this bill were different. Now you are forced to find money for this performance and you have already presented the first operating list. I hope that the money will be found so as not to undermine people's services, but now you are looking for money only for this 24-hour care. Where, then, does the money come from for home care and the development of informal care that is excluded from this bill? In other words, the greatest threat at the moment to the development of care for the elderly
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u69	Mr President! I thank Minister Kiuru and the Government for this wonderful presentation. As has been said here in the Chamber, everyone will probably agree that it was good that it came and better late than never. It is not only to ensure care for the elderly but also to ensure the attractiveness of the sector: to have new students there, to have the light of hope that working conditions may be better in the future than they are today. In the same way, I take care of home care, but I also take very great care of the maintenance of family carers. In Finland, about a million people are currently helping their loved ones at home, and it can be said that some 350,000 of them are carers, of whom about 50,000 are officially carers. It can be imagined that if they were to be taken over to the public, there would be a lot of new customers, so I ask the Minister: how will the role of family carers be safeguarded in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u70	I would like to give the floor to Mr Forsgré, Mr Kiljunen and Mr Zyskowicz, and then the ministers will have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u71	Mr President! The government's common will is to invest in people and their well-being. This state of will affects all groups of people, ranging from children to working-age people and older people. There has been a long debate on the shortcomings and shortcomings in the services of older people, including the adequacy of staff. Over the last few years, there has been an increase in the number of irregularities, problems and inspection findings of the supervisory authorities. With sufficient human resources, we send a strong message that everyone deserves quality care now but also in the future. Mr President! In addition to ensuring high quality services for older people in improved service housing and institutional care, the aim is also to improve customer and patient safety. In addition, the equality of older people will be strengthened by the introduction of a common evaluation and planning tool across the country to identify the need for services. It is not only the carers who are being treated, it is also a message that we appreciate the work done by the carers. This investment is particularly important for the female-dominated care sector,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u72	Mr President! This is a historic moment, a warm thanks to the government. At least since 2011 we have been talking about the setting of a nurseship and an attempt has been made to get it into the law, and now this historic moment is taking place in this Chamber. That's a great thing. I would like to say that, while the government has defined the human resources, it has also sought funding for this human resources measure, which reflects the sense of responsibility that the government has. While the government has developed 24-hour care, it also develops open services alongside it. For example, in the field of open services, carers' visits will be free of charge in the future and home-based services will be subject to a ceiling, which will also strengthen the availability of services for people living at home. People living at home and people in 24 - hour care cannot be contrasted. Understandably, people in 24 - hour care need more intensive and demanding care, but at the same time we also develop home service and home care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u73	Mr President! On 29 August last year, Minister Kiuru, you wrote the following: ‘The services of older people must be looked at in a comprehensive manner in order to ensure that the quality of care and care they need is equivalent to that of older people’.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u74	Minister Kiuru, there have been many comments — even 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u75	Mr President! Now that it is quite a short time available, I would like to say at the outset that I think the chairman of the committee raised this major change in the operating environment. It's a serious place. We cannot share this need for older people just in improved service housing or home, not even in family care or family care, but in between there should be a variety of housing, and these challenge us. Another change in this operating environment is that institutional care has decreased, as Mr Reijonen has already said here, and that is why there have been people who have a much greater need for support. This current set of recommendations does not support this change in the operating environment. Mr Lindén said very well what this means in practical terms, why these improvements are needed. Then another aspect of this debate is, all the time, what aspects are, as it were, slinging against each other. I now have to tell you that the government programme has not been drawn up, nor has it been the government's task, to put things in order for the elderly, so that one thing is over the other. That is not the case. This is a comprehensive move forward with these reforms. All these things need to be put in order. For a long time, we will not be discussing in this Chamber how much can be saved from care for the elderly. Now we're talking about how much we can afford to invest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u83	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u84	We will now resume the debate on item 2 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u85	Mr President! Thank you all for the very substantive and valuable debate that took place at the beginning of the sitting. I will return to the issue of staff shortages first. Neither the municipality nor the private sector always intend to find sufficient qualified personnel. For reasons of saving, the content of the work tasks has also been affected. At the same time, an increasing proportion of those treated in nursing homes are worse off than in the past. It has seemed advantageous for the municipality to live longer and longer at home, and many older people have also wished for this. At the same time, however, part of the increase in the costs of special care has arisen from this particular group. These concerns about the quality of home care presented and raised during the debate are partly reflected in the proposal for a uniform national evaluation and monitoring system to identify and evaluate the needs of an elderly person. This is intended to ensure that care is provided everywhere in Finland on the same medical criteria and that the elderly do not have to be imprisoned at home, for example, because the province wants to save money. At the beginning of the period, I met colleagues in the Japanese Parliament who said that we share the same major challenges: the low birth rate and, consequently, the significant ageing of the population. A good wake-up call is to recognise the scale of our challenges, although our societies are different in many ways. The direction of change is common to the whole of Europe. When my mother was born in 47 C.E., a record - size cohort, over 100,000 children, was born in Finland. When my daughter was born in 2007, the size of the age group was 60,000. Last year the figure has fallen to about 45000. Our welfare services are largely based on working tax revenue. There is no need for an economist to estimate that my daughter’s age class will be difficult to support the age of her grandparents, who are older than before. Treatments are evolving, and Finns are living longer and longer. What is worrying is that the years of infirmity in life are much more accumulated in the end of life than in our Nordic neighbours, even though we have no difference in life expectancy. The number of these infirm years must be reduced. As the working-age population declines, the narrowing and also regionally distributed tax base is increasingly directed towards social and health services and even more towards the end of the years of life in these services. This need is right and there is. However, I am very concerned that the second major item of public expenditure, education, is going to be left behind in this development. However, it is the lifeblood of Finland’s success. This millennium has seen more than one-and-a-half-fold increases in social spending, while education expenditure is unchanged, and this does not yet reflect the full impact of the baby boomers. In the next few years, the growth in social spending will accelerate. Our greatest challenge will be the lack of labour. This is already visible in the social services sector. This is where Purra earlier presented the figures. I have roughly the same figures: by 2030 it would take 90,000 new replacements for 44,000 retired workers. During the same period, the number of people of working age will decrease by 55,000. Regrettably, the change in the carer’s size now being proposed will further increase this deficit. Everyone understands that improving the smooth flow of work-related immigration, learning the new language of all entrants, quick access to work, mental well-being in the new country of residence and occupation are critical factors for success. I also saw it in the care services. Although the additional training places in the care sector are absolutely critical to the success of the reform, they are not the only ones that we have to deal with. After climate change, I believe that the changes brought about by the age structure are the biggest challenges facing our welfare society for the coming decades. To cope with them, we need a good common understanding of the whole and a long-term plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u86	Mr President! Every ageing person deserves a dignified and dignified old age. We should be confident that we will be taken care of when we are no longer able to do so ourselves. Unfortunately, the quality of elderly services has not improved as required by the Act on Elderly Services, but services, care and care have been neglected in various parts of Finland for both private and public service units. Last spring, just about a year ago, there was a shocking lack of care and care for the elderly in private care companies and raised the whole of Finland to reflect and assess once again the state of care for the elderly. It cannot be that profit - seeking is used as a pretext for neglecting the care needed by the elderly. These are human rights, respect and respect for the elderly. It cannot be that the distress and well-being of the most vulnerable elderly people are doing business and doing business without any morals. It is therefore the responsibility of the State to ensure that such a situation will no longer arise in Finland. According to the studies, the number of carers has been too low at the heart of the problems of elderly services. Too few nurses have led to the fact that nurses are tired and no longer have their own powers and time for other than mandatory tasks, if any. Time has not been enough for care for the elderly, because in addition to care, food must be distributed, dishes, sanitation and so on. We don't have enough time for the old man himself. There has been a lack of food, since there has been no time to feed the elderly. We've had deficiencies in sanitation, hygiene when we don't have time for the bathroom. We'll change the diapers when we get there. If we have time, we'll do the teeth washing. You can only dream of going out. On the basis of these experiences, a few years ago, SuPer made a report that told a lot. The survey showed that 93% of local and primary care providers were concerned about the quality of care. Seventy percent of them had to do weekly things that conflicted with their own values. On the basis of the survey, 70% were also thinking about changing the sector. We cannot afford this in Finland. We can't afford to lose a single employee in old age work. Rather, we must do everything in our power to improve the well-being and attractiveness of the sector. We have a major challenge for the future, because we need at least 200,000 new workers in the social services sector by 2035 because of the increase in retirement and the need for care. Elderly work is an important part of this overall need. The definition of nurse size will bring more detailed guidelines for elderly services, mainly 24-hour care, but at the same time we need to recognise the increase in personnel needs and skills also in home care and informal care. This package is supported by future Government proposals on the free of charge of carers' visits and the extension of payment ceilings to oral health care and also home-based services. Mr President! We must be able to rely on the future. We can also influence the future, as we are doing here. We can make an impact on it with good legislation, such as the nursing standards law that is now under discussion. We can further improve the old-age service law. We can guarantee adequate training. We can also develop social and health services as a whole, as is now the case with the reform of social welfare and health care. We can improve the well-being of workers at work and through these various activities improve the appreciation and attractiveness of the sector. If these basics are not in order, the problem may arise if we do not get employees in the sector. Then we wrestled with questions and challenges of a completely different scale. You can't leave old-age work to carers. Mr President! Today is a historic day. We've been talking about setting a nurse's size in this room for a long time. Since 2011 at least, Parliament has held discussions and made proposals on the setting of a nurse’s appointment. Unfortunately, so far no agreement has been reached on this, but now it is finally going to be taken care of. I am therefore very pleased that the Social Democrats' long-term objective of 0.7 on the minimum number of binding carers to the law and the new, refined carers and staff structure has finally come to the House for discussion. With this reform, the quality of care and service for the elderly will be improved while reducing the workload of the care staff. Thank you very much for the preparatory work done by Minister Krista Kiuru, her team and the entire Sanna Marin government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u87	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Finns of Peru also greeted with joy this bill, which came to the parliament, for placing a nurseship in the law. We have been working on this for years, for years — and it is not so much that we have worked here, but that people have been waiting, those elderly people in the care of the elderly as well as the family. Mr President! The first thing we have to do is fix the way we talk about this performance here in Parliament. Repeatedly, representatives of the government, you use the term “registration”. In fact, this bill is about to make a staffing effort. The basic Finns have systematically used this expression ‘hospitalisation’ because we think we need to describe what we need for the care of the And now that we are talking here all the time at the mouth of the government about nursing, even though you are actually making a staffing effort, that means that in one night all the workers in the field will become carers in your opinion, and that is not how it is, but how it is. This bill contains 21 different professional titles, which are included in this direct care work, which means caring for a person, and includes, among other things, assisting staff, i.e. domestic assistants, helpers and care assistants. They do the indirect tasks, that is, cleaning, cooking, laundry, and then they can also be counted as part of the rating, that is, taking part in the nursing work — and we believe that this is a question mark that should be answered: how are the responsibilities then divided? Is it the case that the home assistant, the nurse or the carer do the morning care work himself, the food, the cleaning, and then move from afternoon or evening shift to the nursing work itself? Nor does the draft law say how many people in the care sector themselves, i.e. those trained in social welfare and health care, should be included, but it states that sufficient is needed. Is it that there is one person in the work unit who has, for example, a nurse’s education, and the rest can be these home assistants, nurses or care assistants, or how much is it? When we talk about where we can find these nurses, we are actually looking for auxiliary staff, which means that we in Finland are increasing the training of domestic assistants, nurses and care assistants who will then take part in the job. And care assistants can't be on duty alone, they can't be in charge of medical treatment. Their studies, which they are studying, represent a very large proportion of their studies at the workplace with an apprenticeship, and their degree includes two parts, growth and inclusion and assistance and services. In other words, if we expand the question of responsibility that care assistants, nurses and home helpers are involved in the nursing work themselves, they should also be more trained that there is then an understanding of the patient safety and the nursing work itself. Mr President! What can bring down this bill? Is there some dogs buried in this bill that this does not pass? One is certainly the funding and the fact that, if the funding is not clear, the Constitutional Committee will certainly interpret the way in which the law is being passed. And I certainly hope that this bill will not fall into any of the Constitutional Committees. That would be a real disappointment for all of us. I would also like to raise a few misgivings and question marks. We already had an expert hearing in committee this morning, and today we heard the Minister. Funding is one thing: is it linked to social welfare reform, because in 23 C.E. these private medical visits are intended to be cut and saved — what if there is no such thing? Will the elderly be deprived of access to enhanced care services, or will they have to stay there too long for home care? So, in what way do we also secure that sufficient resource for home care, because there is a crying shortage there? What's the status of home care? What happens when the situation is acute? Even now, the care of the elderly needs to be put in place when this high dimension itself comes into effect only in 2023. This 0.5 comes into force 1.8. What does this RAI assessment method by which care is classified actually measure? How much will it cost to those units that do not have it yet? What, in fact, is the definition of where a 0.7-manufacture is needed? Then there has also been the talk of family care here: how do we ensure that there is also a possibility of self-loathing? I am sure that, despite the good intentions of the law, many people also want to invest in informal care, and I have taken a legislative initiative, among other things, that the employer should be obliged to give it to the family care worker when the time comes and not to lay off himself, but to take part in hospice care, among other things, if it were at home. Mr President! This text of the bill and this presentation text are very good, and this is a basis for all of us to know what it has been like and what the situation is at the moment. For that, thank you to the drafters of this law. Of course, it must be borne in mind that a lot of things have already been taken up in this proposal from the previous quality recommendation, which means that the chair has not been re-invented, but that things have been brought directly to the level of the law, including these 21 people who can do the care work. Mr President! There's a lot of work to be done in the nursing sector. Now there is a staffing effort coming, but how are we going to get those people, how are we going to get nurses and assistant staff? Working conditions, pay, attracting people who have moved back to work and to study — we have a lot of workers who may have worked in other fields — that they can get back, re-study and continue to be assured of nursing work. Mr President! This bill is to be welcomed and expected, but in committee we will certainly still hear a lot from experts about what this includes, something which we have not yet received in Parliament on the basis of this mere text. But funding is the biggest question mark for me and the greatest fear that the Constitutional Committee will tell me that funding is not right, and then the whole law will be watered down, and that is what we do not want.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u88	Mr President! Today we are dealing with a very important law, a law with binding staffing. This is a necessary and good thing, but I will now focus on the pain areas in this proposal. The crisis in the care of the elderly is under way. We constantly receive feedback from our mail on care for the elderly, which repeats too few people or too few people trained. Unfortunately, the crisis in the care of the elderly will not be resolved with a fast-track dimension, which will not even come into force until 2023. The proposal lacks money, partly nurses and comprehensive consideration of the care chain for the elderly. I would like the committee to draw attention to problematic issues. The size of personnel concerns enhanced service housing and institutional care. This is a good thing, but, as we well know in this house, municipalities are champions for savings in a difficult economic situation. The law should be written in such a way that municipalities and service providers do not get rid of the dimension by talking. If now the name of enhanced service housing is ‘assisted service housing’ but customers are stomachs,how can this problem be solved? In this context, we should also talk about home care. Both the state and the municipal home care fund is rife, i.e. the elderly are being kept at home for as long as possible, but what about when this bill comes into force? Even now, in many places home care is at the limit, and it is clear that if nurses have to be taken out of home care, it will not be any better. Or, if the care measure leads to an increasing number of places for 24-hour care, has the law actually gone from ditch to allikko, no matter how good the intention is? It is therefore extremely important that care for the elderly from home to institutional care is considered as a whole. I would also like to express my concern at the fact that the minimum number of nurses per elderly has been recorded in the law. Unfortunately, the general point is that the minimum law often becomes the maximum. A good example of this is, for example, the services of the disabled, which the law guarantees 18 journeys in one direction per month. In practice, these trips are only granted the 18, which means that the minimum has become the maximum. What if housing customers are such that their needs are 0.8 or even one? I venture to assume that even then, the pressure on savings is easily reduced to the minimum prescribed by the law. Everything should be left out of individual service needs for each elderly person. This dimension is precisely the problem that Mr Juvonen has just raised, that is to say, the assistants, care workers, care assistants, stimulators and — this next one is interesting — the other are responsible for the employees involved in the maintenance of the customer's social performance, as well as for the managers and managers of the operating units, and unfortunately we are talking about the actual human resources measurement rather than the measurement of the carer. Here comes a little similar to what was seen a year ago in the care of both the elderly and the disabled: in fact, the unit need only be one person who has been trained in the care sector and the rest can be almost anything. In addition, it is suggested that the unit’s management can be calculated here even if they do not do nursing work. Such a presentation merely legitimizes the way private care giants operate, and that is not the intention. It is not possible to talk about nursing professionals if we are talking about care workers and, unfortunately, there is still such a landfill clause in the law, and I hope that it will be removed or considered in that committee, this ‘others responsiblefor the participation of workers in the patient’s social capacity’,because it can also be a replacement plumber for the older person. Where, then, do these nurses come from? If we go with this staffing measure, then there is actually no need for nurses, as Mrs Juvonen has just said, and this is perhaps a bit of a problem. Here we should have some definition of how many trained nurses we should have. In Tehy's and SuPer's calculations, there are about 20000 to 30000 non-care professionals and the THL estimates that they could be up to 72,000, i.e. if they can be lured back, that would probably be the simplest option, but of course work is needed in terms of management, workload, pay and flexibility in working life. I am surprised that there is no Danish model in Finland, where there is only a four-day working week for over 60-year-olds, i.e. the older end of the week begins to shorten the working week and then it increases the working hours. And, of course, flexibility in working hours is important in families with children. Mr President! As far as financing is concerned, I already expressed my concern last week, and I repeat that now. As has already become apparent, 70 million money has been allocated directly to this in 2023, but, as we know in this Chamber, this money is not enough. This is at least the EUR 240 million per year. Now they want to reduce these private doctors' Kela payments. It may be a problem for middle-incomers in particular when choosing whether a child goes to a private doctor to show his ear pain or to a health centre. Then I am amazed at these improvements in purchasing services and the promotion of digitalisation, and they have not received any euro amounts of any kind. This cannot be the case. But don't worry, we Finns in Peru can find this money in the budget. At the same time, you can get online news about where you can find it when you asked questions last week. The elderly belong to the very group to which we, in the opinion of the Finns Party, belong, and we could easily raise this EUR 230 million: 97 million of the increase in development aid, 100 million of the climate fund aimed at low carbon in developing countries, and the remaining 30 million can be deducted from the subsidies paid to customers in reception. Mr President! It is, to the greatest extent, a choice of values. There'll be money when you get your priorities straight. For us Finns, it is an honour that we treat children, the elderly, the sick and the disabled well in this country. We can afford it as long as Finns are given priority instead of improving the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u89	Mr President! The care of the elderly needs to be strengthened and more hands needed. It is good that we are taking a clear position in this Chamber to safeguard valuable old age and the conditions for good work in the care of the elderly. It is also a good thing if this reform is taken in such a way that the method of calculating the dimensioning can be harmonised across the country. At the moment, regional government agencies have had very varied practices in this area and little content has been considered to be sufficient, and I do not believe that this principle of equality is sufficiently implemented. It is also a good thing that the work of the various professional groups is taken into account more widely. It is very important that we see ageing not only as a therapeutic matter, as a matter of social welfare and health care, but that it is built on a great many other elements of life there, in 24-hour care, in a group home or in whatever form it is organised, and that is why culture and all kinds of stimulating activities are important. And, of course, a rehabilitative working grip is essential. Similarly, the separation of indirect and direct customer work is a clarifying reform, but I believe that it is important to take this into account in funding, so that it does not only take into account the staff assigned to this dimension, so that this support work does not create such an area, which will then be reduced in this provision of services for the elderly. The well-being of older people is also closely linked to nutrition and hygiene, which is why, for example, sanitation services must continue to be provided. It is clear that it is much easier for large operators, large entities, to organise this separately than for small ones, and I therefore hope that this will be given attention in this further preparation. The separation of tasks is also of some concern to such a hierarchy that has been strongly seen in the ministry in due course. Fortunately, there is not much evidence of it in the working units today, but I am returning to my own experiences from the '90s when I was an intern in a nursing home. There, for example, this hierarchy was reflected in the fact that the nurses were allowed to go for coffee first, then the institutional administrators came and, for example, we trainees were at the bottom and were allowed to go for coffee last, as far as it was, and the same type of distribution was also visible in the work assignments. Indeed, not much of this is to be seen today, fortunately. I feel that the culture of care for the elderly has changed a great deal, but I hope that this will not allow us to be reborn into care for the elderly, but will see that all the tasks that are being done there are valuable. That is a very important starting point here, if we start to differentiate more strongly. As good as this is the objective of strengthening the resources for 24-hour care, I think it is important to add the whole of care for the elderly right now. The situation of day - to - day care is not yet resolved by this, but quality recommendations must also be updated. It is very important that this is accompanied by an understanding of what a good day’s work and life are like in a group home. At the same time, it is absolutely necessary to carry home care if 92 per cent of people over 75 live in their own homes and home care services concern at least as much as customers in 24-hour care. I see that this is a big challenge that needs to be taken into account, because already the situation is that in some municipalities, for example, it was not possible to take new customers home for Christmas when no replacements were received. This is indeed the situation at the moment, and the challenge is that when work is hard at home, its competitiveness should also be increased, so that it is an attractive job for people and it is also provided with staff and that the municipalities do not go to the other side to re-source this. Now that this law is being passed, it is clear that thousands of experts will be needed. I would like to ask the government how we will ensure that experts are provided with more than paper and that older people are not left in home care without adequate care, but also strengthened. The need for education is enormous, especially in view of developments beyond the next few years. There is a lot of retirement in the sector, and there is no time far away when the young age groups will start to need more services. We must be prepared for this already. The bill already contains one interpretation challenge. The measure will enter into force as soon as the law enters into force on 1.8. this year, but the full scale will have to be reached on 1.4.2023. The municipalities have been informed that, during the transition period, the size of 0.7 can be reduced if the unit is able to provide adequate care and care. I would like to ask who will assess this and how and whether the municipalities will be given prior guidance. This information has been contradictory and it goes without saying that this needs to be clarified before August. Finally, on funding: Adequate funding must also be provided for this law. In its own alternative budget, the Coalition Party proposed that we start already this year by providing sufficient resources. We presented 50 million or thousands of nurses for 24-hour care, 50 million or thousands of nurses for home care and 50 million for the development of services for the elderly, and the idea was that this would immediately secure those resources in it. The Government says from funding this that one way, among other things, is to apply within the spending limits for this money and to improve the efficiency of procurement. I'm worried about this term in it. So will the services of the elderly be more competitive at price in the future, and what will it lead to in terms of quality?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u92	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here and I would also like, on behalf of my own parliamentary group, to thank the government for bringing this proposal here. This is indeed a proposal that has been awaited and prepared and hoped for for for years. There are serious shortcomings in the care of the elderly, both in institutions and in home care. Although a large proportion of elderly services are produced in high quality at the moment, the extent of the problems is indicated by the fact that 40% of nurses in the survey have said that they would not be happy to be treated there when they are old at their own workplace. Well, it does say a lot about what's going on. However, with regard to this proposal, I have three concerns: firstly, funding, secondly, access to nurses, and thirdly, the impact of this proposal on the services needed for home care. At the moment, many municipalities and joint municipal boards take decisions because of their financial scarcity, rather than sending a message to qualified carers that you are not needed than to hold onto these qualified carers. Therefore, resources should be urgently needed in municipalities to implement services for the elderly in institutional care, both in 24-hour bed-care services and in home care, so that these trained nurses do not seek employment elsewhere. We have quite a reserve of nurses at the moment, even though they have been trained for these tasks. If we are to aim for a sufficient number of qualified nurses in the future to carry out this 0.7 dimension and also there in home services to ensure home care for the elderly, this work should now be undertaken. We cannot wait until, for example, these government-designed cuts in Kela compensations or changes in the prices of medicines start to bite and produce the money that can be used to hire carers. And I am, of course, concerned about these funding projects planned by the government, because they are contributing to the weakening of other activities in health care, and that is certainly not good for the elderly either.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u93	Mr President! My parents, who have reached a high age, still live at home. They engage in hobbies, travel according to their powers, and continue to work on gigs from time to time. The ability to function is preserved when there is something meaningful to do. My grandmother was also allowed to live in her home for a long time, and for the very last few years, when the memory disorder came and got worse, she was in a 24 - day care facility. The treatment was good and my grandmother was a little satisfied and grateful for the treatment she had received. A lot of good work is done in Finland, and I would like to thank all the nurses and rehabilitators who care with their hearts for the elderly all over Finland. However, for all the elderly, things have not been this good in recent years. As we have heard today, there have been serious shortcomings in our care of the elderly. Every elderly person has the right to decent treatment and human care, care, care, care, but also rehabilitation and stimulation. I do not think it is bad that we are now talking about carers as a whole, workers working with rehabilitation and also those who maintain the ability to function. The staffing capacity for the care of the elderly is now recorded in the law. In the previous law of 2013, this dimension did not come — which is why not, it can be answered by the bearers of the time. But now it's coming. There should be seven nurses per 10 per 24 hours of treatment. Of course, that is not always enough. What is needed today is the issue of home care, home-based family care, different group homes, but also the situation of family care and family carers. Many of them are at the limit of endurance. That is why, now that this issue is being taken forward as a first step, their situation should also be mapped out. Mr President! It is a good thing that now all the parties are behind this dimension, even though we certainly disagree with funding. Nothing is free, and it has been pointed out that within the spending limits cuts may be coming to private doctors' Kela compensations, through pharmacy reform or by enhancing the efficiency of services through digitalisation. The effectiveness of these measures should be carefully assessed. All in all, this is a complex issue, the effects of which cannot be fully anticipated. That is why it is worth making changes one step at a time, and now we are taking a good step. Once it is known of its effects, corrective action can also be taken and further steps taken in the direction of continuous development. The transformation of work will also have an impact in this area. The tasks of a doctor and a nurse may converge when AI comes and makes diagnoses based on the amount of data loaded on the machines. But a person is needed, care is needed, a traveler is needed, support is needed. A valuable vocation work is being done in the nursing sector. I recently listened to a country doctor about Tapani Kimink. He also wanted to be responsible for the doctors. In each nursing home there should be a familiar doctor who knows people, is available and serves as a safe haven for nurses. This would help the nurses to cope. A large locality could have some kind of on-call team as a back-up for the nurses. It is good that we are on the side of small care companies. In small units, the manager is usually involved in nursing work, is not alienated from everyday life, the employees are reasonably permanent and motivated. A good manager has the tools to run the entire care unit, home. He sees the whole thing. Leadership must be strengthened in education. Of course, the skills of presence and communication must also be strengthened in education and training. It is also a good thing to acknowledge that not everyone is in nursing work. Mr President! The elderly have built us this prosperous land. It's our turn to take care of them. The reform of continuous learning, with its conversion and precision training, is now more than necessary. Now calls the work where you can face people’s life stories, face life and death, where you can convey the idea that life is full, even though years come, you can walk by your side when you live your life to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u94	Mr President! It has been estimated that in 10 years’ time, the staffing needs resulting from the increase in the number of carers will be 80,000. The need for an increase of about 30,000 nurses will be very challenging to achieve. The increase in training start-up places must be significant, but this in itself does not solve anything, because the attractiveness of the sector is deteriorating for exactly the same reason that trained nurses are fleeing the sector: working conditions whose burden is not compensated for by pay. As many as 40% of nurses are currently planning to change the sector. Especially experienced nurses aged between 30 and 50 are considering leaving the sector, but still at a good working age. There would already be enough nurses in Finland if the nurses were to do the work they were trained for. The National Institute for Health and Welfare carried out a report on the personnel in the care sector. The survey revealed that 72,000 people with medical training are employed in other fields. Even more moderate figures have been offered, such as 40,000. This too is a huge amount. How can we get these people back? How should we ensure that those working in this field do not leave? Of course, we hope that the nurseship will help in this regard. Low scales and the load of unskilled jobs create a rush and too wide a responsibility that brings stress. If more hands were placed on shifts and those hands were to do what they were trained for, the burden of work per nurse would be reduced. Working conditions could improve. Unfortunately, such an optimistic hope at this stage is still a long way from reality. In any case, it is clear that we are approaching the crisis of treatment. Work has also changed. A study by THL from a couple of years ago shows that 80 per cent of nurses working in institutional care for the elderly had experienced violence during the year. It is clear that this reduces well-being at work and increases stress. In addition to wages and employment issues, housing and transport policies, for example, affect the question of carers, as do many other tasks of lower wages. It doesn't help to scream work-related immigration if your own nest is this messed up. Exactly the same incentives apply to immigrants once a residence permit and possibly a family have been admitted. This is completely humane, but we need to change the structures. Mr President! I would like to highlight one further reason for fleeing the sector, which is, of course, less than what has been said before, namely forced vaccination. As a result of forced vaccination, nurses have already left the sector or have sought work elsewhere, as in other Nordic countries, where this is not required. The person who has been vaccinated may also infect the disease and the vaccine is far from certain. Last year the protection against influenza vaccine was at most moderate. Of course, the employer cannot, in theory, force the worker to take the vaccine, but it is unfortunately felt that the practice is different. True Finns also receive a great deal of feedback about this. With the entry into force of the nurseship, such a mandatory body law can hardly be complied with anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u95	Mr President! I still have faith that politics will do good when it is done on the basis of sustainable values. In my opinion, the 0.7-management dimension recorded in the Old Age Services Act is the victory of humanity over the harsh speeches and hard forces that have resisted the binding human resources dimension over the years. This has been a very long and multi-generational process, and it feels very good that we are here in Parliament now having a referral debate on this very important subject. The history paper is turning around. But we must remember that this is only one repair move and that, despite this future improvement, we are still lagging behind the other Nordic countries in the number of carers and in the funding of care. After this 24-hour staffing commitment to the law, Finland must continue to be able to do better in home care and in all ways to promote the well-being of the elderly. Mr President! The worse the situation for the elderly, the greater the profits the health and care giants have made. The profits of nurses or, for example, the profits of pharmacists — can anyone seriously suggest that people’s common funds are justified in financing the enrichment of a few privileged ones? The government has here found a sustainable way to finance this important improvement. In the case of nursing and health giants, the arguments that people apply for the public side due to the Kela cut-off are not credible. During the last parliamentary term, Kela compensations were cut. There was no disaster. It would be sustainable if the care giants — rather than pretending to be a kind of disaster in the form of a Kela compensation cut — looked at their own activities, lower their own prices, cut their own profits. Then this price reduction might even bring them more customers. It makes more sense for taxpayers' money to be directed to the services of elderly people who need care rather than to the profits of health and care giants. Old-age services, as many people here have already said, have lost their nurses. People already trained in the sector have moved to less heavy jobs, some estimates say 30,000, some even more, while at the same time the number of people seeking training in the sector has fallen dramatically. Now, almost 5,000 students are seeking training in this field less than five years ago, and this cycle of crisis needs to be stopped. The attractiveness of the sector will increase as the carer’s size is corrected. This is shared by the care and care organizations. This 0.7's carer size is their minimum requirement. From the point of view of SuPer, it was proposed to measure up to 0.8, which was based on the Nordic level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u98	Mr President! If all the controversy and barking that politicians have been using for years for the care of these senior citizens were aimed at moving forward, then it would certainly be better for them. Of course, money is a big problem here too and, at least for myself, a lack of awareness of where it actually comes from, but I think that even the greater the problem is finding the skilled and motivated care staff needed, and even so that it does not impose a burden on the national economy, but on the contrary. It is a fact that the shortage of nurses in several nursing homes is a daily problem and does not show itself attractive. In recent years, treatment received by 75-year-olds at home has decreased as development should be reversed. More quality home care should be available and should respond to the needs of these senior citizens. It must be remembered that nursing is only one of the problems to be solved in a large number of cases. So it cannot be the last cure, but only the beginning. Nor is it in any way wrong to ask whether the order is right. So is there a risk that the little nurses and the money will be allocated to 24-hour care in a way that does not serve the whole big picture of care for the elderly? Would it have been reasonable to expect the entire work of the working group on the reform of older services to be completed? Now we've only arranged one piece of the puzzle. I hope that this will not be the case for municipalities to find themselves in a situation where they will further weaken home care by transferring small carers to round-the-clock care. However, there is no room for weakening home care in a situation where it should increase. There is hardly much time for reform, because the need for these services is constantly increasing, at an accelerated pace.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u99	Mr President! “The children would be They built Finland, where it is good for us to be now. After the wars, the trees that we now enjoy are planted. It is therefore self-evident that it is now our turn to take responsibility. I took part in the "Take the Old Man Out" campaign and went to several care departments. I was convinced there that the number of hands to help must be raised. It helps nurses to cope and reduce the feeling of inadequacy. Trust in the quality of elderly services must be restored. I have a good feeling that on this basis of government it will happen now. The Government's proposal includes a proposal on the personnel allocation of 0.7 and its assessment in enhanced service housing and long-term institutional care. This human resources measure refers to the actual input of employees on site in the operating unit in relation to the number of customers in the operating unit. If you would take the room by the hand with the shaking hands of the life cycle itself and quietly ask ‘not leave me alone’,you would certainly wish there was a time — with a friend or a relative or maybe a nurse. Tax money does not go to waste when checking the nurse’s size. The opposition ran out of middle-class tax evasion. If I were that over three tons of wage earner — as I am — brought up by the opposition, whose taxation is being tightened by a few euros, I would think of it in return for the previous generations. Help is also needed in homes, as has been well demonstrated in this debate. The fragility brings insecurity, as Mr Guzenina said. It is therefore good that the funding of the elderly service is not solved by undermining the services or benefits of other groups. We do not set age groups or those who need help against each other, but for all Finns — regardless of where they live and how they are —to ensure quality and appropriate social and health services. In my opinion, the savings that sought this solution are also very good for daylight. There is no need to support the profits of private health companies, and perhaps it does not matter very much whether those who use private services receive a refund of the euro or a couple less from Kela. And, of course, on the private side of the health waste can be received if they are concerned that customers will disappear. The Government Programme states that Finland is a country where everyone receives care, care and care in a timely and equal manner. Mr President! This was a very good and necessary step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u100	Mr President! This poor state of care for the elderly and care for the elderly rose to the public debate with a very strong intensity a year ago when abuses of the activities of Esper and some other companies operating in the care of the elderly arose. Of course, as long as I can remember, the quality of care for the elderly and related issues have been discussed and the related shortcomings have been highlighted. However, it is obvious that a number of business activities have been created in Finland over the last few years, or when business activity has been concentrated and foreign investors have become involved, there has been an unhealthy situation in which the quality of people's care, the level of people's care and, you can even say, human rights have been compromised through this, when money has become the biggest consultant. This is also indicated by the fact that recently we have been able to read on the news how the economy of these few companies has deteriorated sharply over the past year, as improvements in care have been made. This really speaks a harsh language about how the act of victory has driven past human rights and good care. Mr President! We all believe that there is a need to improve the quality and quality of care for the elderly in Finland. It is extremely commendable and valuable that the government is now bringing this proposal, which will ensure that care is adequate and will put the back door to no longer compromise. My own loved ones have been well cared for when they have been in the ministry, and yet there has always been a certain amount of concern. I have noticed that in these nursing homes, where I have been following the work of Finnish care professionals, conscientious workers, time has been the resource that has always been the biggest shortage, and I have noticed, having talked to them, that this work would be done as well as possible if there were enough time and colleagues to work with. Now that our population is ageing and the number of Finnish elderly people in need of enhanced care is constantly increasing, we need really big changes in our society, in addition to this nursing dimension, the human resources dimension. Now that memory disorders are increasing and weaknesses in the functioning are increasing, better urban planning is needed, a better housing policy is needed. There is a real need for major changes, and I believe that not all of us involved in politics have yet fully realised how big changes are needed. Now, a few days ago, it was reported that a whole village is planned in Helsinki where people with memory problems can move safely and live on their own terms, and I think that this kind of thinking is needed. It should also spread more widely to Finnish municipalities and urban planning and urban planning. Of course, in rural areas, solutions of their own are needed when distances are larger and people live at home behind long distances. In my opinion, there has been a great deal of unnecessary talk about the care of the elderly in this way and in the discussion about care for the elderly, since I believe that there is largely agreement on the objective. Of course, everyone has targets and value choices. However, in this background there is genuine concern. This is often the background to concern about how to care for your own father or mother in the last years of their lives, how to care for your grandmother or grandfather in the nursing home or other loved ones, and how that coworker copes with his work there. It is right that, at last — I dare say — this is the biggest human rights problem that has existed in Finland — the weak level of care for the elderly is being addressed. I am not saying that this whole dimensional issue would solve these problems, but it is a big step in that direction. In addition, of course, we must pay attention to quality and good management in the care sector. There are care units where even a small amount of nurses have been able to produce better quality than others when management and staff support and competence have been at a better level. This too needs to be given even greater attention in the future, and this is also something that does not always require so much money, if you have good supervisory skills available.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u101	Mr President! Older people for whom enhanced service housing or institutional care is organised are in most cases in need of extensive care and support. The management of customers in 24-hour units requires special expertise and requires an increase in the size of personnel. At the end of life, the quality of life of long-term care clients will fall. Memory disorders cause customers to feel insecure and insecure, which can lead to different risk situations. Staff adequacy, staff structure, endurance and skills have been identified as important quality factors in the studies. Mr President! The right to the necessary care is guaranteed as a fundamental right for anyone who is unable to provide the security necessary for a decent life. The key services provided under the Social Welfare Act for older people are home care and home services, as well as rehabilitation services and housing services for them. Service housing in accordance with the Social Welfare Act is arranged for persons who need suitable housing and care and care. Enhanced service housing is arranged for people who need care and care 24 hours a day. Mr President! The starting point is that the implementation of the service is always guided by the customer's individual service needs. The adequacy of day-to-day care personnel relative to the number of customers has been monitored by personnel measurement. There are simply not enough nurses, especially during nighttime and weekends. Important issues for older people are sociality, hobbies, safety, food quality, participation in decision-making, the quality of care and the adequacy of service housing. There is also a need to invest more in home and family care. The care of the elderly must not be money laundering. Mr President! It is obvious that more medical staff will be needed in the future. We need to train them more and attract them to stay in the business. Special attention must be paid to the care of the care provider’s own working life and to the comfort of the working environment. It's reflected directly in the customers. Interaction and relationship work with patients is an important form of work. Continuous transitions from place to place with heavy work items, restlessness, hurry and indoor air symptoms do not motivate work. The end result may be fatigue, depression, trouble sleeping or anxiety, which eventually lead to a change of business or an exit from working life. Mr President! I would like to thank the government for coming into the law with this 0.7's nannyship, but I am raising the question: where's the money? It's not like you're actually cutting out home care, for example, to get that 0.7-management thing into the law, is it? I can give you a free tip, which will immediately lead to more than 200 million: 97 million for the increase in development aid, 100 million for climate aid and 30 million for inefficient reception. I think that this is especially a matter of value, and we Finns always weigh more heavily on the Finnish population than on the embrace of the whole world. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u102	Mr President! Parliament is debating a very important issue today. The need for care for the ageing population in Finland must be fully met in the future. Large age groups have made a very valuable contribution to building a Finnish welfare society, and for them we must guarantee valuable old age, but unfortunately, at least for the moment this is not happening in all parts of Finland. Parliament expects a great deal, especially with regard to social welfare reform, but its preparation schedule has even been kept tight by Minister of Basic Service Krista Kiuru. I strongly hope that the government will genuinely listen to the reform of the social economy in the preparation of, among other things, municipalities and involve the opposition in the preparation of the reform. A reform as long-term as social protection should definitely be carried out in the broadest possible consensus. But, Mr President, with this draft law, Parliament is now in a position to legislate for binding personnel measurements in enhanced service housing and long-term institutional care for older people. In the same context, this reform of the law must strengthen the supervision of care institutions and give proper sanctions to those who may be in breach of these future regulations. The Finns of Peru would have been prepared to regulate binding nurses' measurements already during the last parliamentary term. And, as Mrs Lundén has already mentioned, we would have financed this reform by reducing, for example, immigration and expenditure such as development aid. Unfortunately, there was no readiness in the previous Parliament to deal with the matter. Well, I hope this is the Parliament we'll find now. But, Mr President, the Finns of Peru also want to ensure that the status of family carers who work in a highly valuable human and social way is improved. It is estimated that some 350,000 Finns are the principal carer of their family members who need help, but less than 50,000 people receive informal care allowance. The number of recipients of informal care support is very limited, given the high level of responsibility they bear and the huge benefits they bring to society, which are estimated to amount to up to EUR 2 billion per year. The role of family carers could be improved, for example, through tax exemption for informal care support and the clarification of the criteria for granting the aid and the harmonisation of the wider number of beneficiaries. This would make life easier for many Finns. The benefits would be both caring, family carers and society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u103	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! So we're still talking about human resources, not nursing. What's the difference? We would think that nurses are included in the nursing measure, but the personnel measure includes all the employees who work there in the working unit and, according to this government proposal, there are 22 of them, if I correctly calculated, there are also students. So the worry is how the responsibility is shared, if, for example, the care assistant does the cleaning work of the morning and then the afternoon goes into the nursing work itself. Is he able to take that responsibility and do the nursing work? This is certainly one of the core issues we are going through in committee. So what is the education, knowledge and knowledge base in the field of social and health care with these workers? That is one question. Mr President! Indeed, this law provides that enhanced service housing and long-term institutional care are to be defined by law, which, on 1 August, would be 0.5 and 1.4.2023 it would be 0.7. There is also a concern here that there will be giggling, so to speak, in different nursing places, that is, the elderly will not be able to access enhanced service housing or long-term institutional care, but perhaps a service house where the law would of course not be in force. There is also a risk that there will be a great deal of repatriation of elderly people to home care, that they will not be guided by the location of enhanced service housing, because that care may not be available there, which means that home care will become even more critical. The bill talks about this long-term institutional care, but this is a concept that is already disappearing, and many say that they do not even want to hear about institutional care. What on earth happened to that facility? In 2013, the then government drew up a structural package in which large savings targets were created. Overall, it was EUR 300 million in savings on care for the elderly. In fact, this structural package has started with the fact that the proportion of people aged 80 or over in institutional care has halved since 2014. In other words, fewer and fewer older people get access to enhanced service housing, let alone institutional care, because institutional care has been reduced, wards in health centres closed, people directed to home care. So when we talk here about the need for more of those facilities, it has been the message of the people of Peru all along. A lot of different measures have been taken, and we have been concerned that when not all elderly people fall off their boots, so to speak, they need those intermediate care places and rather than when they are in such a state of infirmity that they are alone and unhappy and with little help. These are the questions. In a way, it seems hindsight that we are now crying that can when all those institutional care facilities have disappeared if we ourselves have reduced them. So we should all look in the mirror in this Chamber and make the decision that we will build more of those facilities, because there will also be future arrivals. Mr President! In 2014, therefore, I took the initiative to introduce a nurseship into the law. It is a great thing that the performance is here now, but what could bring down this fine performance? What waters down this fine government bill? The fact that the Constitutional Committee would find something in it, for example, that funding is not sufficient. Let us hope, let us put our thumbs up that this is not something we are going to hear, but that we are actually going to take this performance forward, because it is important and important. The borderline between direct work and indirect work is certainly very difficult, and Mr Ikonen, you gave a good speech here and mentioned the hierarchy. In fact, it can also be at work: let's think for a moment, whose job it is now to do that if the milk falls on the table, and then who's to take the elderly person to the bathroom if he asks to go to the bathroom in the middle of a meal, because it's the immediate job, and that's the indirect job to wipe the milk. We can't have these hierarchies. Even that part of the proposal stated that even the authors of the opinion were concerned about whether this would make it difficult and would bring such minor problems to the care unit in the way in which the work was actually separated. Well, if this law comes into force, there will be no sanction if it is violated. If it's not 0.7 or 0.5, then what's the result? Mr President! Just a few more words about this old-age care in general. After all, all these years it has been shocking to hear what has happened there in the care of the elderly. Last year we learned that there have been record reports of mistreatment of the elderly, 940 reports last year, when it had been 437, which means that the avi is under real pressure. Well, then, at the beginning of February, we heard that Esperi Care has transferred to debt ownership — it was at the beginning of February — as a result of the deteriorating financial situation. This means it's hard to get a business out of old people's care. We should remember that elderly people cannot do business and should not be able to get rich, it is so important and extremely valuable work. Today, at just 5:00 p.m., news has come that Attendo has received an order from Valvira. It has been exceptional: there are flaws in all the service housing units of the elderly under Attendo, and time has been given so that by 1 July 20 we have to put things in order and report on it 1.8. In other words, we do have these shortcomings, and it is really worrying that I feel that things are not going to work out. It is a common subject and it is very important that this be brought forward. But there are risks, so let's hope that everything goes well now. At least there is not a sort of assortment in this, that if you do not get it into force in 23 C.E., this law would not proceed either. Let's hope that the government and the yardstick have put that funding in order. We can no longer be disappointed, but we must now get this through and thank you for bringing the motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u104	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Juvonen, for your very good speech, and I fully agree. After all, in today's debate almost all the parliamentary parties have agreed that this law must be put into effect and must be taken forward vigorously, but I wonder why this definition of carers as such does not go to the assembly. Mr Ikonen may now have a somewhat unthankful situation here as the only member of the Assembly to be present in that regard, because today Mr Orpo announced that the delegation would be prepared to accept the proposal only as part of the whole, but I agree with Mr Juvonen that it should be taken forward. It is clear that there is also room for improvement in home care and family care and in many other areas, and these risks have also been raised in that government proposal, but this carership is part of a wider package that can improve the daily lives of older people. The situation is intolerable: it is precisely those things that have been mentioned about the supervision of avi care units, or that are constantly being read about the inadequacy of staff or the lack of clarity in medical treatment. These examples come daily, and they tell us that something needs to be done, and now, fortunately, this government is doing so. It would be a very important message for the elderly, their families and those working with care for the elderly, that the whole parliament, which goes beyond the Government-Opposition boundaries, could support this government proposal, which, however, aims to increase the number of care staff in the 24-hour care units. I suspect that the presentations of the assembly as such would put a brake on the implementation of the nurseship.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u105	Mr President! We are living, I would say, a very rare time in the history of the Finnish Parliament these days. From day to day we meet here in Parliament to discuss government proposals, and what a pleasure it is to follow this when, in practice, Parliament unanimously supports them from one proposal to another.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u112	Mr President! Congressman Juvonen, you have raised concerns about the division of tasks in human resources. It should, of course, be carefully examined in the preparations. This includes direct customer work and indirect work, i.e. participation in direct customer work in accordance with the quality recommendation, and of course these indirect tasks are taken into account — that it is cool that there is good food, clean clothing, home is in order, or the unit in which you live — but there is no participation in customer work, and that a separate resource should be reserved for them or carried out as a purchasing service. Of course, these too are important tasks that affect the well-being of the elderly. However, if indirect tasks are included for persons who carry out this immediate customer work, these tasks should be specified and indirect tasks should not be counted against the personnel size. When I think of this group — staff who do direct customer work — it is such a multidisciplinary group, and when I think about the needs of the elderly, it is precisely this kind of cooperation, working together, that is what is needed. As a new point, I would also like to raise the issue of what is normal and familiar in itself, that is to say, voluntary, so it is important to keep organisations involved when we think about the care of the elderly. It has been said that if you want to be happy, help others. Many lonely people could find a good volunteer job alongside the elderly and with all the workers in care and customer work. Finally: let us keep Finland in order that we can take care of everyone, including the most fragile ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u113	Mr President! I feel that I am a very foot-in-the-country person in many things, and that is why I actually have to say to myself that when there is cause for joy, then joy must also be shown, and in this situation, even though we know the reality of the elderly services, there is reason to rejoice that one thing is now going to be right at the legislative level. In the last period, it was even planned to reduce the current recommendations. So, for less than a year or two ago, we were still in a completely different frame of mind, even considering lowering the current recommendation of 0.5 to 0.4 and having a huge debate on whether this could be done. It is therefore necessary to underline that we are now in a completely different climate when we talk about making recommendations legally binding and raising them from 0.5 to 0.7, i.e. from five employees to seven per 10 customers. When we put this into perspective, we have to understand and say that very realistic feet on the ground – people can — and should — rejoice in this. Last season, for example, Mrs Juvonen and I listened to a very hard fact in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health about what emerges in Finland through inspections, and I was perhaps most shocked by the fact that not only one but several inspections had revealed that there could be half an hour between the morning shift and the evening shift, when no one in the 24-hour units was present. It is absolutely shocking — absolutely shocking. I think we all cried out for swift action at the time. In my opinion, the fact that the Coalition Party has reviewed its position on this matter and has now come to the conclusion that the Coalition Party is also in favour of the size of personnel and 0.7, should not under any circumstances be blamed. I must say that I think there is a healthy aspect of politics that a person is willing to change his position when he receives more information.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u116	Mr President! I would like to thank the representatives of Kinnunen and Salone for their excellent contributions. We are talking about human resources and this very important law relating to the elderly. Congressman Kinnunen, you have highlighted the importance of volunteering. I would like to draw your attention to the example of Kerava and Talkorengas volunteers, whom I visited and heard that there are about 300 volunteers and who, in fact, save the situation of the elderly living at home. They have an emergency phone in the morning to call anyone who needs help. It can be even being placed at a health centre or being taken to a doctor or whatever else it may be. Let's answer it and then let's go help. In other words, this voluntary service is really something we must respect and allocate resources to. Municipalities should ensure that these volunteers are able to operate. It is also very important and meaningful for the people who work there. They are trained in these things, what they then do there, and it also gives joy and activity to their day. Mr President! Mr Purra has just raised this question of vaccination. It is therefore a question of flu vaccination, which is now laid down in the Act on Infectious Diseases, that care staff should also have influenza vaccinations in certain situations, and we were talking about forced vaccination last season. Representative Purra raised the question as to whether it might also be the reason why nurses disappear from the care sector. In 2018, I asked a written question on this subject when so much came in contact and questions about what this means. At the time, the impression remained that this Chapter 5 of Article 48 of the Act on communicable diseases was in some way being clarified — what it means and whether it is actually compulsory vaccination. It would be desirable for the Minister of Social Affairs and Health to be able to clarify this further and see whether there is a need to change the section in some way, that it will not then become so coercive from that section. Well, then the ghost nurses we have been talking about here, and if you leave half an hour between shifts, as Mr Salonen pointed out: that is a major problem in the planning of shifts then. You can't be ghost nurses. The nurse should be on duty. I myself have worked a long career in Helsinki, in large hospitals for 24 years, and I remember, among other things, when I was on the evening shift and came on the night shift and there was no nurse at all. Of course, we have to be flexible and stretched, and then we have to stay and do the shift because there are no nurses available, but it is important now that the ghost nurse phenomenon has been recognised and identified, and we must no longer have these situations. And then about what we're talking about here... Mr Kiljunen, you have also made a good speech, and I must say that we do not, of course, support all your proposals from the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u119	Mr President! There has been talk here about the glaring examples that have emerged over the past year, which I am sure no one in our opinion has represented the good care of the elderly that our elderly have earned. The examples that have come to light are absolutely unacceptable. Talking about irregularities will help to correct them, to tackle them, but I hope that we can also talk about good practice here. I myself have seen both good and bad examples in my various assignments as well as in my personal life. If you look at these places, they are not necessarily separated by the number of staff — it has been more or less the same in these places — or whether they represent a public, private or organisational body, but, above all, the culture of action of these units, how to deal with the elderly and how to deal with him, how to respect his autonomy, whether his needs, wishes and habits are taken into account, how to deal with the relatives and at last how to deal with the hospice phase with the last moment with dignity and care. It's crucial. I therefore hope that, in future, we will also highlight the factors of good quality in order to learn from them. Well, then, in response to Mr Ovaska, when it seems here that the words of the Coalition Party are interpreted in different ways, I shall try to settle this. In other words, when the Coalition Party stated that the 0.7 dimension is appropriate as part of a package in which the services of every elderly person, including those living at home, are provided, it means that we expect the government to bring the whole to the table as soon as possible,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u128	Mr President! A little commentary on four points. First of all, Mr Ikonen: an exceptionally valuable and excellent speech. You specifically want the whole package of care for the elderly to be supported. In fact, the Coalition Party in this formulation wants to support the implementation of the Government Programme more strongly than our ambition can do, because we have these budgetary constraints and spending limits in it. Thank you to the assembly for this strong spiritual support in the implementation of the Government Programme. We also expect in the votes that you will also support the partial solutions that we are taking forward, because our goal is exactly the same. It is great to hear, I say, and I repeat this joy, which we also have with such strong support from the opposition, that is, stronger than we ourselves dare to implement that government programme quickly. Representatives Kinnunen and Juvonen highlighted the strong involvement of older people in volunteering. This volunteering is a big deal, actually, surprisingly big. We do not see what kind of work input people over the age of 65 give to Finnish society, when they are so often labeled a passive population. They are also most active in this form, not only in increasing consumer demand, paying taxes and responding to different services, but also in providing input to society. For example, 60% of family carers are pensioners. Sixty per cent of all family carers are pensioners, i.e. elderly people. In this respect, this rehabilitation aid, to which I referred in my previous speech, should also be put into practice and implemented very quickly for those over 65 years of age. Mr Salonen, in his own speech, wondered and wondered that it might have been possible to even think about calculating this carer’s size, not raising it. And, Mr Salonen, it is probably quite logical in relation to the basic premises on which the government took off because, according to the government programme, competitiveness and the economy were most hampered by the ageing of the population. That justified all the cuts that were made during the last period in relation to the elderly. Now, as Mr Salonen well knows, we are approaching the issue from a completely different angle, and this is another way of seeing the way in which we measure the nurse. Mr. Juvonen, in a fine way, you taught us a little less knowledgeable about this nursing exercise and you talked about the personnel dimensioning. I think that we are all moving a little in the everyday language, however, because ‘ the size of the staff ’ —if the producers,the safety officers,everything,the kitchen staff belong to the staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u131	Mr President! Maybe I'll pull some corners. I admire Mr Kiljunen's way of analysing and interpreting the position of the Assembly, but somehow I still feel that the assembly has not fully understood how much need it is now. There is a great need, and the need to respond as quickly as possible. Of course, I am not a nurse and I do not know it as well as many others in this Chamber, but I sometimes wonder that when you have been a relative in places like this and wonder how comforting it is to hear an old man scream from there — screaming for help, and there are no nurses and there are no staff available — then the legislator must wake you up. That is why this proposal has now been brought and has also been brought in haste to meet the long-term objectives and wishes that have existed. The OECD and one research institute published this kind of land profile, a health profile from Finland, and it found that life expectancy in Finland has increased by nearly 4 years since 2000. But perhaps it is worth noting that Finns have reported more operating constraints than other Europeans, which cause them to have less healthy years of life than other EU citizens, and this also puts a lot of demands on us as to how we can look after citizens, whether they are at home or otherwise in the health services or in older years, for example, in 24-hour care. But this matter needs nurses, and during the day there was a little discussion and the Minister was also asked, but the wider question is indeed where we get nurses. Are they being trained in the traditional way? How can we train, including conversion, faster? And would we, for example, be able to obtain medical personnel abroad? Perhaps Mr Juvonen knows this half as much as he does, but we might need medical staff from abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u132	Mr President! Here came some great ideas about this volunteer work, and it was nice to hear them. I myself have sometimes wondered that these needs are so different in different parts of Finland. When you are from that country and there are long distances, it has sometimes occurred to you if, for example, you could pay a low - income pensioner a little to visit your neighbor regularly. He would have time to talk, and then he could call for help when there is a need for help. Mr Ikonen spoke very well of this culture of action, an action culture that values the elderly, which is of the kind — I think — in which often the small one is beautiful. When the old man is known and the nurses do not change too much, there are nominal nurses, so it is possible to take into account the old man’s background, values, convictions, important things for him in arranging care and housing, and the old man feels and feels valuable and is activated into a meaningful life. In the course of this evening there has been a concern that this law would be lodged with that Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It is not a question of politics, it is always looking at the draft law in the light of the Constitution, so that the fundamental rights of the elderly are realised, and time will then show whether there will be any objections to the issues to be considered. Let us work on this law in such a way that these fundamental rights will certainly be fulfilled. It is a good thing, therefore, that this has not been the subject of a huge overall reform, because many times such a package will also meet these constitutional challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u133	Mr President! I do not quite understand the idea of this assembly that if you do not do everything, then you should not do anything. Some wise man once said that an elephant has to eat piece by piece, or a mountain has to go up one step at a time. I know that you, Mr Ikonen, are well aware of the magnitude of the overall legislative reform. And now we are in a hurry: we must take bold first steps, at the same time fully knowing that we are moving towards bigger renovations and change, but there is no time to wait. Now we have to start, and that is why I find these arguments for the whole to be lame. I admit, Mr Juvonen, that I too was concerned about this staffing exercise when we went into it in greater depth, but I was at peace with the fact that it was agreed unanimously with the nurse's organisations. So the professionals in the industry support this solution, and yes, it is a strong backrest for me, at least I want to lean on it myself. I also think it is crucial to distinguish between indirect and immediate work. That is an important part of this. When I look at these people who are involved in the immediate customer work that Mr Juvonen has already listed, such as the housekeepers, I must say that those old-fashioned housekeepers are ironclad professionals. When I myself used to do old - age work, even though I had a higher education, I learned about that basic work from these very old - age householders. Therefore, I do not believe that there is any contradiction in their calculation of immediate care. Of course, if, for example, we start to abuse the catalysts in some way, if the working time they spend does not really go to the idea of stimulating action, then that is a worrying sign, and you will certainly hear more about it in committee. But the good thing now is that, for example, a leader cannot be counted as an immediate care worker, and this is a change from the past. Therefore, sitting at meetings is not an immediate care work, and that is what I consider to be crucial. Then this control is a big issue, and I am sure you will also hear in committee about the resources for monitoring, so that we can get these ghost nurses off the list, so that the culture of action is genuinely changing in both public and private institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u134	Mr President! I will take this immediately, Mr Salonen, when you made a good speech, but you mentioned that the heads of the operational services are not involved in the immediate work — let me get this straight. — because, in this bill of law, they are registered in that direct work. Then perhaps in some way the limit will be drawn when they will not participate, but it has been raised here. Mr. Kiljunen, why do you need to talk about personnel planning when you go to the numbs and the squares? Because it's a legal text, it's in the law. Here, the text of the law says ‘manufacture’, but ‘manufacturer’ is the language of the country. So we can talk,but if we split hair as we sometimes do,then we have to remember that we talk about I understand that the ‘teacher’ dimension ‘whatever we use,however,but ‘staffing’is a little different as a result of the fact that people who have not been trained by the carer are being read. Not all future carers, nor everyone can win under the heading ‘career’. For example, a care assistant does not receive a degree title but performs certain sections. Mr Ovaska, you have spoken well, thanks to them, you asked about carers from abroad: could we take care of them from abroad? The fact is that, of course, when language skills and that desire and know-how and know-how are in place, so why can't even that foreign nurse be there on the field of employment, and we have international education in Finland? But it is hardly the solution to this lack of care, because it really requires good language skills, good skills and also competence in Finland. It may be that he has a profession that does not necessarily have the qualifications. Here we come, among other things, to these Filipino nurses. There is a situation where you can be very highly educated in your own country, a nurse, for example, and she comes to Finland, but since she does not master the language, she will of course not be able to do that job as a nurse. He can't even get into the job of a nearby nurse because he doesn't know the language, so maybe it's the nursing assistant's job picture he's doing here. I find it sad that a skilled person with education and knowledge in the health sector will be placed in low-paid employment, that is to say, at the lowest level, and that is the problem. Which means I wouldn't see the need to bring nurses from abroad. I'd like to see that we have to have a specific training and that those who leave the industry should be lured back. I raised the issue in the debate when we presented our alternative budget, including these dual degrees, that is, when young people go to high school, so I should encourage those young people to go out and do that double degree, because then, in your 20s, you have a matriculation examination and then you have, for example, a local nurse’s degree, and then you can go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Nothing is as grateful as the nursing home. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u136	The government is pleased, Mr President, with the thanks I am sure, but it is true that people in the care sector also say that there are not enough nurses in Finland and there are places open to try to attract. I understand that we need to improve the attractiveness and certainly the pay and so on, but we still have a situation where we just don't have the hands to do it. [ Arja Juvonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u137	Mr President! Let me answer just two questions about what has been brought here. The question was: what has been the justification for the assembly in this regard, that we have emphasised this parallel transport of the whole? They simply leave the worry of not accidentally endangering home care. This is precisely the question of these experts: if you do not want to have them so that you do not take them away from home care and then put them at risk. This is why it is good to look for a whole package to ensure that home care is constantly ensured. And as a follow-up, the answer is that yes, the coalition understands the situation in 24-hour care. Perhaps the answer would be to ask whether the government understands the urgent need for home care there. It is also urgent to seek solutions on that side.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u138	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about these educational challenges, a few more thoughts about that. After all, we are now working on this continuous learning reform group, and I am sure that this is also a challenge for us to catch. It is important that all workers who work with the elderly have sufficient medical skills. As a special teacher, I have also encountered young people who have learning difficulties, who do not necessarily have the ability to undergo a secondary degree in nursing care immediately, but have a great heart, they have a very good natural capacity to meet another person. This is certainly the case with apprenticeships and gradually qualifications, or with such a job as a nurse who does not have the ultimate responsibility, but even with such a pair of hands in the care of the elderly. Mr Juvonen raised the possibility of this double degree, and it is also a very good option in his own view, so that it will then be possible later to proceed to different tasks in this career. There is therefore a need for a wide range of paths in this training. More start-up places are needed and then further training for those who are long absent from work. Surely there are already those who come from elsewhere who need this qualification training and also this language training, which is the best integration at the same time. Everyone who can get a fingernail is now needed to work. But the development of such a regional reserve bank because of the need for flexible substitutes is also particularly important in sparsely populated areas, certainly also in cities, but then, of course, the development and exploitation of technology in routine jobs. A machine does not replace a person, but it helps in some tasks. There is much to be done, but let us accept the challenge.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u139	Mr President! Representative Juvonen asked me to use the legal text when talking about the care of the elderly. President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, I must admit that I have tried to avoid the text of the law and to try to speak to people which is understandable, and I would also do the same in this Chamber. I was very pleased to hear Mr Salonen say that the trade unions are also urging us to use the so-called understandable text here, so that we know what we are talking about when we talk about'registration'. That is just the way it is, Mr Juvonen, that we also have a few different approaches to this verbal approach to these phenomena. Mr Ikonen, we are also very concerned about home care. I myself have been in internships every January, and one year I was in training, especially at home, and I saw the pressure with which home care is done. I saw the absolute pressure and the need there, especially when we have now increasingly reduced so-called facilities and are trying to make it possible for older people to live at home for as long as possible. 77 per cent of those aged over 85 still live at home. If we want to go that way, then we must invest in home service, and it is great that there is also a clear tick in the government programme on this point, that there is also a desire to invest properly in home care and home service, not just in care services in institutions. This is the important thing. As Mr Salonen said very well earlier, we have to go along with some of the reforms. We see the whole, and we want to go towards the whole, but take it piece by piece. It will not be out of the whole if we get a piece of it right away and the next one comes right after it. The same government programme will be taken forward, and in this respect, Mr Ikonen, thank you for your support for the government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u140	Mr President! It is great that in the dark hours of the evening we really go into the details of the legislation and not just have a general debate. It is, of course, always a pleasure for the legislator. I am sure you will learn more in committee about what these statutory records actually mean in practice, but I believe that we cannot simply read the list of professional titles and make an interpretation of whether the staffing is calculated correctly, but that it is crucial to distinguish between this indirect work and direct work. Just as I said before, if, for example, the stimulus director does any other work, it cannot be counted as a human resource measure, and I believe that is also the case with the responsible persons and the administrative director. In other words, all the work they do — supervisory and administrative — would be indirect work and would not then be counted in this dimension. Perhaps what we will probably be wiser about in the future will be these tasks that provide immediate access to basic work: is there something there that could make it possible to do something that we do not really want. But this supervisory work, which is administrative work, is indirect work and should not be counted against that scale. However, a much bigger question has been, for example, food preparation, large-scale heating, laundry. For example, the nurse’s job description may have taken a large part of her cooking, she has made sure that wet sheets in the laundry room can be washed in order to get clean sheets in place, and it has been away from being with an elderly person, from her well-being, for example, and that is a big change, and that is something we could talk about more about. There is no time to talk about it during the first hours or Question Time, because it goes to the details, but everyone who has done that work understands that this is a huge change on the daily level, and it should be a change that makes it possible for the elderly to work well-being now and, on the other hand, gives respect to those professionals in the sector who are specialised in their own training, even in the care of clothing, and also respects that profession. But then, Congressman Juvonen,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u141	Mr President! I, too, seek to be plain - language when I go around in the marketplaces and in the turbulents. It is very important that we speak the language that people understand, because in general when a politician speaks, responsibility is passed on to the listener. It's rare to understand what we're telling you. But, of course, this terminology, what we use here... This has been discussed for years, and especially during this government term, whether we are talking about ‘staff-measuring’,in which caseit will be understood as ‘non-medically trained’,that is to say,if there is a basic nurse in the social and health sector,the nurse,the nurse,these arethe namesof So this is the difference. But of course we can talk about the question of “careerization ” when all people do care, including those who do not have medical training. And, of course, we must encourage care assistants, among other things, to possibly study as a follow-up to the local nursing degree. That is a very important issue. On this demand for language skills and the fact that we cannot find our own carers and that we should import medical staff from abroad: The phenomenon that concerns me today is that we have a large number of areas where negotiations are under way and carers are being laid off. It seems strange how on earth there can be a situation where nurses march into the yard when they are laid off, and then we talk here that there are not enough nurses. Some equation doesn't add up. Well, then, from the reaction of the unions to this law, when the unions have supported it: it is very important that health unions are involved, but here in the legal text it is mentioned that there must be a sufficient number of social and health workers and, of course, there will always be enough: how many nurses in the care unit, how many local nurses, or whether there may be more of those care assistants. This must not be the case under this legal text, of course, but it is only said that it is sufficient. What is that sufficient number of nurses in that unit? Of course, it is an interesting question whether the unions have also understood this. Of course, indirect and immediate work will be dismissed and nurses will no longer clean up. It has been the desire of unions all along and the idea that nurses are simply doing nursing work, that nurses are not cleaning — no floors are being wiped at night and no evening shifts are being cleaned — and now it is going to happen, and that is a good thing. They won't be one of them to be rated. But what is the sufficient number of staff? I hope then that local nurses and nurses will continue to be hired and found and trained, that we will not be able to develop in such a way that nurses will only be able to work in hospitals and care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u142	Mr President! We have had a long day, we have been talking here for a long day about care services for the elderly and their dimensions, and now we are right at the end of this debate. I hope that this is my last speech on this subject. Representative Ovaska opened up in a fine way what this is all about. When there are younger people in the galleries, it is good to pay attention to the background here. The background is definitely that the average life expectancy of Finns has risen. You referred to the fact that in about 15 years it has risen for 4 years, and if you look at the post-WWII development cycle, we have had 23 years of average life expectancy for newborns. This means that a whole new generation has emerged in Finnish society. The fourth knees, the fifth knees, are already beginning to exist in families, and we see that the average life expectancy is increasing. It then means that society must also assume its responsibility for these older generations, just as history has done. The key message here is that ageing people are not a burden in this respect. This is not a problematic phenomenon, but, in fact, the fact that the population is ageing is perhaps by far the biggest single achievement of the Finnish welfare society. By measuring development indices in the world, average life expectancy is the most important factor when comparisons are made between different countries. The level of education is also a common variable, and then the level of income is the third variable to sum up this development. And the fact that Finnish society is one of the highest welfare indices in all the countries of the world in the history of the world reflects precisely this phenomenon, that the average life expectancy is long and we all share the concern of older people, both younger generations, working as well as ageing people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u143	Mr President! That is precisely what it is that the way we take care of our elderly is also measuring our value in this society. I received a message from Tampere about the number and training of nearby nurses. I do not know what time this is from, but there was an example like this that there were 100 places of education open and 17 applicants. This is quite alarming in terms of how and where to attract those nurses, as some countries have done and gone out of their way to attract advertising campaigns and others. But let us see if at some point we will have to attract even more nurses from abroad. Perhaps, in the end of the debate, it can be said that almost all parties, with the exception of the Coalition Party, are quite prepared to accept this carership as they are. I am sure there will still be a hard debate in committee, but it is good to see that the government has also received such strong support from the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u144	Mr President! Thank you very much for this valuable debate and for the forward-looking proposals and reflections. Mr Juvonen, you have brought up the hospice care, which is also on the government's agenda and which is a very valuable and important issue — that everyone can experience a good death and get relief from the possible suffering before it. I can tell you that I have a very beautiful experience with this last year. My wife was next to my mother and mother - in - law all week, and I was allowed to visit there myself. The employees were very discreet. They also considered us family. This is the opportunity for loved ones to be by their side we need. But there are also people who have no one to come to that last moment. It requires workers, perhaps trained, suitable volunteers, so that no one has to leave alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u145	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Culture must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral and the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u146	Mr President! The Government Programme of Prime Minister Sanna Marin aims to secure the resources for social research and its long-term development. We are in the position that Parliament has already taken: the social sector also needs research and development. And now the breakthrough is happening. Effective and effective social care is not only the right of every citizen but also an integral part of the functioning of the entire social and health services system. However, so far, research into social work and social services has not received a funding system such as health research, based on state compensation. Social care also lacks the same operating environments as the central university hospitals, which combine scientific research, scientific and vocational training and practical work. Universities have contributed to strengthening the situation by setting up teaching and research centres at universities to meet the needs of research, development and innovation at work alongside the training of social workers. However, in the absence of funding, the scale has remained modest. At the same time, the need for research to develop social work and social care practices is urgent. In social work, special research into the development of practices with working life would be required. [Sari Sarkomaa’s interlude] A number of recent studies have focused in particular on the coverage of information production and research in the field of services for children and families and adult social work — serious issues, right? Recent findings also highlight the need to strengthen and develop the skills and development of older social work. There is a need for a knowledge base on the social problems faced by customers and effective working methods and services. In addition, the ongoing restructuring of social welfare and health care and the development of customer information systems provide a whole new kind of research needs and thus opportunities. The aim is also to link social work research strongly with the Future Social and Health Centre Programme and as part of the work of social welfare and health centres. The prerequisites for multidisciplinary research should be strengthened. We must make this social and health threshold, which we are familiar with as a centre for social welfare, so that we also want to develop its work from within every day. The legislative proposal now under discussion extends state funding for research into social work at university level. Similar funding for university level health research has been in use for a long time. In the future, it is important to develop cooperation between both fields of research and to make multidisciplinary research more effective for the whole system. It has already been said at this stage that it is not intended to eat the funding of health research, as has been claimed here many times, but to ensure that research can also be started on the social welfare and social services side. I think it is too vague to say things that are not actually happening. As regards the financial framework for the last term of government and this term of government, it has remained at the same level since Parliament, as a fixed-term project, has increased this funding, which means that it is in a position to be understood in a different way from what is normally referred to in the spending limits procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u147	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. After all, this provides resources for social research, which is very important, as are health research and various themes there, especially when it comes to cancer research and how different operating models are developed, and Finns are at the top of this research. Equally, this social research is very important. Here, a number of contributors said, among other things, that there are differing views on the definition of university-level research. Perhaps on this, Minister, you can then say how this will be taken into account here and see this as a concern and a problem. This is a very good thing. We were just talking about amendments to the old-age service legislation and personnel measurements, and among other things, the proportion of care centres aged 80 or over in institutional care has halved since 2014 — that is to say, it has halved. This would be a good place for research: what reasons have led to the halves of institutional care, whether it is the result of a parliamentary policy, and how it has affected these people, and how it will affect whether something should be done about it, so that the elderly and also disabled people get the care they need. So much unexplored information exists, and when we talk about social and health services, it is often very difficult to understand what these social services are. Well, they are the services for the elderly, they are the services for the disabled, and, equally, when we are faced with huge structural reforms and the number of older people is increasing, we also need to know how this whole package is being managed, and in that sense it is good to get to know this bill in committee as well. But if you really do, Minister, with regard to this commentary, you will tell us, and perhaps in your own view, an example of what you think it would be very important to study now in this social field.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u148	Mr President! It is important that research into social work at university level is invested. Social work research needs long-term funding, needs to be increased to higher university level research. But this must not mean that it is out of medical, medical and nursing research. The 2020 budget proposal provides for EUR 25 million of state funding for research at university level in health care. Now, if this legislative amendment goes through, 4 million will be taken from this same item in social research, that is to say, it will reduce the remaining share of health research to EUR 21 million, and that is a clear decline. It is also a decrease compared to the previous year, when 23.8 million were reserved. Healthcare will be developed on the basis of researched data. However, in practice, the government does not act in accordance with its words and Government Programme. Quality and good treatment is not achieved and maintained without research. Finnish cancer treatment or good heart research results are praiseworthy in various headlines and festive speeches, but when it comes to money, the support seems to be running out. Instead, the government can afford assistants. Mr Marin's government, you have 69 special assistants and 15 state secretaries, The Sipilä Government had 42 special assistants and 4 state secretaries. When we cut back on this, we could well compensate for that research cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u151	Mr President! Two comments on the impact of this proposal: Firstly, the fact that the model for this financial system has been introduced from health research. Well, this certainly seems like a natural reference when the lawmaker is the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and is being dealt with by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. But this is not necessarily the case if social work is considered as a field of science among the disciplines. Other areas of reference could have been future research, criminology, addiction research, research into working life, youth research, regional science and demography, to name but a few. Why does this matter? Because when it comes to young weak science, what we use as its structural reference will inevitably also direct how it evolves. Secondly, we have long had the tendence to strengthen decision-making based on research, which in itself has a good and worthwhile objective, but its impact on science at the same time is that the relative share of research funding, in which either politicians or officials decide on questions, is increasing. This inevitably has an important role to play in the freedom of research, from the point of view of which the question of who puts the issue at the heart of the matter. The kind of research that decision-making requires to support its already existing work is qualitatively quite different from the kind of research that is carried out in a genuinely free academic environment. Although both are needed, these, to which emphasis is placed at any time, are big choices. That is why I would have liked the impact assessment of the government's proposal to have at least given some thought to what this opening up of such an apparat means for this field of science. I do see it as a shortcoming that not even one sentence of this kind of reflection has been able to fit in. In general terms, I consider this to be a positive, necessary and expected reform. I am delighted that we are also working hard to combine research and practical work in the field of social work, for which the gap has undeniably been a problem to date.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u152	Mr President! Minister! The Social Welfare Act is important, and we need money for research, and of course we also need money for universities. There are not enough social workers in general. Why are there not enough of them? Maybe there's something wrong with hiring, and there's also the fact that attractiveness doesn't seem to be the best class. Different localities may have big pay differences. Now, on this subject, the Disability Services Act, I would like to ask: people with disabilities must also have social services, and perhaps more advice is needed. At what point is this Act on Disability Services coming to Parliament? I see the importance of reforming the Disability Services Act. It's out of date, whether it's social or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u153	Mr President! It is great that this issue is now in the referral debate. This makes it possible to finance research at university level through state funds granted by the Ministry of Social Affairs. When I think about the term “university level”and the importance of a non-universityresearch,the Minister for So-called for,is it possible that this would include researchinvolved I am thinking of this uniform school path from university of applied sciences to university. We need researched information here for decision-making purposes, but also for the development of social work. We have also faced a wide range of difficulties and challenges in social work, which are of course very much linked to the lack of resources, but there is also a need for research into the functioning and effectiveness of service systems and also multidisciplinary research. Social work is very important work, customer and expert work: To build social support and services that meet the needs of the individual, his family and the community, to guide and monitor. It is a life of a small, dignified person, where things do not always work out the way they want. There is a desire to make a change for the better in life situations of individuals, families, and communities, so that everyone can feel that they belong. As has already been pointed out, this is a very young field of science, and it is therefore important that we invest in it now, and the link between education and research should also be clear. But, indeed, I am interested in the connection between the higher university of applied sciences and the research related to it, because it actually relates to a practical challenge which is in that field. There is a huge shortage of social workers, and there could also be the question of whether the socionomist of a higher university of applied sciences could qualify as a social worker for all the tasks the law shows.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u154	Mr President! In order for us to develop this society, we need researched information. We need information on how we can reduce people's nausea and increase well-being effectively. We need information on how to increase justice and equality in our society, and we need information on social professions and institutions, for example. It is these things that the field of social work examines, among other things: the well-being of people and their influence on them. However, the Social Welfare Act currently in force does not provide for the funding of university-level social work research. University-level social work research is therefore significantly different from health research. I'm glad there's going to be a change. It is important that effective methods based on research evidence can also be developed on the social work side. In order to provide the most effective social work service, we need to have information about what is affecting and how. The expansion of state research funding proposed in the Government proposal would strengthen the research-based culture of social work. It is important that funding, for example, makes it possible to work in a research career. Combining research careers with practical social work could be an important attraction in an area where recruitment problems are commonplace. The possibility of combining both research and practical social work in one's own field could increase the relevance of the work. In this way, we could contribute in the long term to solving the shortage of social workers, but we also need a lot more means of getting professionals and keeping them on track. It is important, however, if this government proposal succeeds in improving the quality of social work, knowledge and research, thereby affecting the everyday lives of people who use these services and who would therefore receive a more genuine and high-quality service.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u155	I will give the floor to Mr Viljanen and then to the Minister if he wishes to use it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u156	Mr President! I would like to thank the government for finally finding the desire to extend state research funding to university-level social research. This funding for social research has been expected for a very long time in this field. I am particularly pleased that this is precisely a separate new funding, so that it would not jeopardise the funding of current university-level health research. This will at last bring not only the funding but also the appreciation it deserves for social work research. Many times I have been concerned about how social work and social care are being left at the feet of health care in many discussions. This is indeed the right direction: to increase the overall importance of social work and social care, because many times people forget how big social work is. It is important that staff and those working in social work have the opportunity to combine research careers with practical social work. I believe it will increase the attractiveness of social work and the importance of work. Customer service needs are diverse, and the development of social services requires the development of social work based on scientific research. In addition, I believe that funding contributes to the skills of social workers in general and improves the quality of customer work. As a social worker and involved in research projects, I can sincerely convey the thanks that have come from the field as a result of this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u157	Mr President! A few comments on the debate. Firstly, I would also like to thank Parliament and the members of the committee for supporting this big line in that the social sector also needs its own research. In this regard, it is important that we are now in the position we are in. It is also important to discuss with the rest of society the role of universities of applied sciences in social research and the role of social competence centres in this picture. It is also important, as Mr Kontula has already done, to have a debate on the reference group which is being tilted and which direction is being applied for the coexistence that is being pursued. In this respect, I believe that this wider scientific debate will begin now that this breakthrough is being initiated so that it can be given a signal that it is important to carry out university research in social work as well. I think that the committee should also draw its own attention to this encouragement. As far as the definition of this yo-level study is concerned, Mr Juvonen raised the question. I myself am no more able to answer what we have had in the drafting of legislation, but I believe that this is also an issue that can be raised on several occasions in the committee as to whether that definition needs to be improved even further. That is probably also the bigger problem in the social field: what it is all about social work, and what it is like to study at university level, the work we do in practice. The world is changing around us, and it is also challenging us to meet the needs of this time in what that social work can be. Then one of the angles of conversation was that from whom is now being cut and from whom is not being cut. I would like to go over this financial angle, because this government is constantly taking on a cut in its permanent funding for research in the field of social welfare and health care. I have to say that this is not true if we look at permanent funding. The logic of parliamentarians that we suddenly change and confuse this permanent and temporary funding has never been used before. I hope that we will now refrain from borrowing what has been the subject of this debate in the past. If we look at the funding of research into health care and social care in budgetary terms,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u160	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u161	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u162	Mr President! During the previous term of the government, I was vice-chairman of the Working Party on Inequality set up by the Prime Minister and was then responsible for seeking solutions for social work reform in this work. One of the themes that emerged strongly in the work of our working group at the time was the strengthening of research into social work. We put it this way: ‘The effectiveness of social work is a basis for the allocation of operational resources. This requires better evaluation skills, a knowledge base, measurement and effectiveness assessment, and cooperation between municipalities, regions and research and training organisations. Effective development structures enable the conditions for assessing the impact of social work. The content of social centres of excellence must be secured, and the place of multidisciplinary excellence in research units built around cooperation areas must be ensured.” Above all, then, we called for information on effectiveness so that we can target actions and funding more effectively. We need more information on customer progress, services and the effectiveness of interventions to support decision-making as well as the development of services. The status of medicine and health sciences has traditionally been very strong in this research on the social and health field, but many of the problems of people are not solved through medicalisation, but we need to understand, for example, the accumulation of disadvantage. Research into social work provides good answers to this. But other fields of science can also be learned within this field of research, and research in health sciences, for example, has been carried out for a long time with so-called evidence-based research, and the same challenge would be in social science research, i.e. there should also be interaction and learning among each other. What I want to say here is, on the whole, from these points of view, I am delighted to see that research into the social and social sciences is being invested. In its own alternative budget, the Coalition Party also put forward a proposal for additions to these research funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u163	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for the Government's proposal on the amendment of the Social Welfare Act, which has already been set up a little better this morning. It is a pity that after the discussion on the nursing dimension, the Chamber was empty and there are only a few of us here, but I consider this government proposal to be very important. The aim is to secure long-term resources for social research and to create state funding to support the strengthening of this competence. This has already been agreed in the Government Programme, which is why I have been waiting here for eight months for us to be able to take this government's proposal seriously forward. There is a lot of social dialogue in the Parliament, which is also a good indication of today's hourly debate on the role of nurses and the related areas of competence. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have very little debate on social matters in the Chamber of Parliament. I myself have been working at the social competence centre quite recently in the work on child and family service change programmes. At that time, I noticed that in social centres of excellence, in a special way, research data is taken into practice and, for example, it increases the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of services — the very things we have been discussing today, for example, with regard to the measurement of carers. The social side, which we so rarely talk about in this Chamber, deserves greater weight in the social reform, even though it is precisely the preventive approach and it brings the cost savings that we are seeking with the social reform. To date, there has been no long-term financial system for research into social work and social services, and there has also been a lack of university central hospitals or similar operating units. This has been seen in everyday life in such a way that there has been duplication of work in many places and, due to fragmented funding, the work has remained rather short-term, although expertise is available in Finland. Mr Juvonen asked Minister Kiuru today what to look into. When we talk about the phenomenon of nausea among young people, we talk about mental health, intoxicants and debt. When we talk about the phenomenon of elderly nausea, we talk about intoxicants and loneliness. When we talk about working-age people, we talk about coping and, among other things, the rights of people with disabilities, about eliminating domestic violence. It is these things that the social sector can handle and understand and thus improve the Finnish system. I strongly support this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u164	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u165	Mr President! Trade in seal products is prohibited in the European Union. This is the dominant and prevailing situation, and I find this extremely regrettable. There is one exception to this ban, and that is what is at issue in this government proposal. It provides that seal products originating in the hunt for seals by Inuit or other indigenous communities may be imported into the European Union and sold within the EU subject to certain conditions. Such seal products shall be accompanied by a certificate of origin on the EU market. The Government's proposal to the Parliament on trade in seal products is of a technical nature. National legislation on trade in seal products would be updated to reflect EU legislation. EU legislation requires the designation of a national competent authority to assist customs authorities in ensuring certificates of origin for seal products imported into Finland. The Finnish game centre is proposed as the competent authority. It is also proposed to provide for the rights of Customs and the Police to monitor and inspect trade in seal products. The law would also provide for infringement of the placing on the market of seal products, which can be fined. I would also like to say that EU legislation prohibiting trade in products made from seals hunted from the Baltic Sea is problematic from the point of view of the sustainable exploitation of natural resources and our ethical hunting culture. This applies both to fishing and to the use of meat, fur and leather from seals. Finland has reported on several occasions on these problems in writing and orally to the European Commission and other Member States and has proposed the need to amend EU legislation. Unfortunately, no response has been found to Finland’s views on this matter so far. However, we will continue to raise the matter. The government has identified the difficulties with which our coastal fishing is struggling, partly due to the seals that cause damage. We are investing in the development of preventive fishing methods and fishing gears. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is preparing a proposal to compensate coastal fishermen for the costs of proper handling and transport of seals removed from fishing gear. This would specifically target individuals causing harm, and this Regulation is intended to enter into force in the coming period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u166	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. I have to say that we are in this kind of a bad little crack. Of course, the EU can define, and now this proposal will perhaps bring something to what we need internationally. We have a seal, could you say nicely now, a problem that we should be able to solve? Because of the restrictions or limitations of hunting, we cannot see what we are doing to them, now that hunter or fisherman can only take advantage of its own need. I therefore hope that Finland, under the leadership of Minister Leppa, will fight the hard struggle that is needed in Finland, because it is an impossible situation for us not to be able to commercially exploit seal products. It is incomprehensible because we have a problem with it, and we have too much of the so-called game. If we have obstacles to take advantage of it, could you say, a dietary product suitable for further processing, that we will have to bury it... Fortunately, you could say so playfully, at this point the seal has hooves, that there are no hooves, that the seal does not need to be taken there to us in the Satakunta in Honkajoki for treatment but can then be buried in the ground. But it is somehow incomprehensible, how can it be possible for a catch animal, or at this stage, to say an animal that is harmful to fishermen, to be pitted when it has no possibility of further processing? I hope very much for myself at least, and I believe that quite a few, that Minister Rest has the strength to move this issue forward, so that we do not have to start thinking here in Parliament, that perhaps we will be producing commercial inuits here from Greenland, which will start to exploit the commercial activities of seals, when only indigenous peoples have this right to sell and when we Sami people do not have this, because there is no justification for seals on the indigenous peoples. This, too, is a step forward to what we must see in this whole reality, how we can struggle with the rising salmon and what we actually have the potential to do what fishermen can do. I believe that there is a need for us in many areas of the Baltic Sea and especially in the Gulf of Finland to be able to intervene in some way so that we can have such a... When we talk about food losses, this debate should be brought up, and I think the Minister's speech made the point that it is sad that we are not taking advantage of something that we could take advantage of. Let's do what we can, and let's do what the minister can do!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u167	Mr President! This bill is in itself a good one. On the other hand, it does not really change anything. It is good that the bill that prevented the trade in seal products but has never been established is withdrawn. All the same, the whole of this legislation was the result of the EU, and when the EU bans trade in its seal products, except for indigenous peoples, we are, in a certain way, in the same stalemate. Here are some very good reasons why the trade in seal products should be possible. Seals are a problem for endangered fish stocks. Increased seals are the main threat to coastal fishing. They generate losses of at least half a million per year for fishermen. Thirdly, it is absurd for a valuable raw material to be without a commercial opportunity at the same time as we are talking about food waste. Of course, fishermen can use the seal themselves, but as long as it does not have a commercial opportunity, seal products cannot be sold forward. Consequently, fishing is also unprofitable and even burying it can happen. That is why we will be doing all we can in committee to explain whether it is in any way possible for us to move in a positive direction in this regard — in the direction that the Minister referred to there. It is a good thing from every point of view, whether you think about protection or business or increasing your domestic food self-sufficiency. We must work to find a solution to this. One thing worth considering is that the Sámi are the indigenous people, and when seals land there on Teno, then of course at least the indigenous people have the right to dispose of them from the north. Then we will also think about the fact that the Sami issues always concern Finland as a whole, for example, the Sami people of the capital. I wonder whether they do not also apply to the Sámi in Ostrobothnia.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u168	Ärade Herr Talman! Jakten på säl och uttytjandet av bytet har långa traditioner i Finland, längs kusten i Östersjön och på Åland. Sälarna fridlystes dock på 1980-talet på grund av att stammarna försvagats kraftigt. Stammarna försvagades på grund av reproduktions problem förorsakade av miliögifter — något som också gällde andra djurarter — och för stor jakt. Sedan dess har dock sältän i Östersjön, gråsälen, återhämtat sig och också ökat explosionsartat i brist på naturliga fiender. Antäät sälar är nu mycket stort, och det stora atsälar är ett stort problem för yrkesfisket, både till havs- och i det custnära fisket. Sälen finns inte bara uute till havs utan kommer också in i vilir. Antalet sälar i Östersjön är nu så stort att det stätter ett hårt tryck på fiskebestånden, inte minst på torsken men också på lax och havsöring. Sälen sprider också parasiter. Salmaskens grander som äts av kräftdjur som i sin tur äts av fiskar gör att parasitten spridits till fiskebestånden. Parasiter uppskattas i sin tur vara en betydande orsak till att just torskbeståndet i södra Östersjön är i ett så dåligt skick. En activare conservating av gråsälen skulle därför batteries behövas. Irade the Talman! Även om fångsten på säl återupptogs på grund av skador i fiskerihushållningen är den ytterst futtig och bara en bråkdel av det antal som brode fällas för att hålla den ecologistiska balansen. Ett stort problem är att de sälar som fälls inte får användas i produkter som säljs, vilket just det ox lagförslaget handlar om — något som inte bara går emot principerna om hållbar användning av naturresurser utan också emot allt sunt förnuft. I kögare vill inte fällä ett djur som Han eller hon inte kan ta vara på och få sälja vidare. Då försäljning av sälprodukter förbjuds begränsar det öjligheten till användningen, och det begränsar således också i practiceken jakten. Sälen har så klart en viktig roll i Östersjöns fauna, och situationen på 1980-talet då sälen höll på att slås ut vill vi ente ha tillbaka, men nu är situationen i practicen den omvända, Vilket visar att balansen slagit över åt andra hållet. Då man på sommaren är uute med båt och med blotta ögat kan se Hundratals sälar på en och samma gång ser man hur starkstän är. Vetenskaplig forskning från bland you give Sveriges lantbruksuniversitet har påvisat problemmen med parasiter i stän. Parasitten sälmask är en viktig orsak till att torskbeståndet i södra Östersjön är i så dåligt skick, och just därför behövs mera activa förvaltningsmeder också för sälstans skull. Det är absurd om man inte kan sälja produkter från de sälar som fälls, vilket också skulle töda småskaliga samhällen bland you give ute i skärgården. Irade the Talman! Problemmet är att Finland inte senmt kan ändra på detta effectsom enta regleras på EU-nivå. Finland har hösten 2019 Konstaterat i en rapport till EU-Commissionen att förbudet mot handel med sälprodukter går estrot principerna för en hållbar användning av naturresurser och att förbudet har orsakat problemm för kustfisket i Finland och i flera andra medlemsstater i Östersjöområdet. Det är mycket bra, för de växande bestånden av säl har försämrat torskbestånden och sannolikt också haft en negativ inverkan på viktiga och i många fall svaga lax- och havsöringsbestånd. EU:s förbud mot handel med sälprodukter försvår regleringen av sälbestånden eftersom fångsten nu endast kan utnytjas i jägarnas egen economist. Finland har därför framfört att man allvarligt bör överväga att ändra EU-lagstiftningen som förbjuder handel med sälprodukter — det arv var också något som minister Leppä nylgen lyfte fram är i plenisalen — så att de negativa socioomousska effekterna av förbudet för fiskärinäringen och jaktkulturen kan förhindras eller minskas. Regeringen och jord- och skogsbruksministeriet har arv en mycket bra linje. Minister Leppän tal koh tidigare var alldeles utmärkt och också Jord- och skogsbrukskottets ordförande Anne Kalmaris och ledamot Myllykoskis. Regeringen och Finland bör fortsätta driva den raj frågan activt i EU då det rauh har en stor betydelse för yrkesfisket och flera fiskebestånd i Östersjön.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u169	Mr President! I have to tell you, the seal will take the salmon out of our 100-day table. Professional fishermen, coastal fishermen, do not have the opportunity there to produce what we want. We are protecting by Parliament's decisions, by the guidelines of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, by means of ICES measures, so that we have enough salmon to rise, but at the same time somehow we have to close our eyes to the fact — and now I would like the Minister to say in his reply that this is not just an EU issue — that the EU has to adapt to the international agreement that only indigenous peoples have the right to sell seal products. We have taken it as ours for coercive reasons. Now I hope that the Minister will tell us what efforts we Finns are making in this situation, where we are, to make use of the EU so that we can question this international agreement that only indigenous peoples still have the right to resell or exploit it, could we say, very good food and seal products? Our protection measures are very good. In the past, Minister Leppä was chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, and now Kalmari, chairman of the committee, is taking the same stick forward. We want to protect the rising salmon and enable it to rise to us, so that we are self-sufficient for the natural salmon stock, but I very much hope that we can move forward from here. In that sense, I hope that the Minister will be able to shed some light on what plans Finland has for EU legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u170	Mr President! Indeed, when we take decisions on endangered stocks, we try to involve scientific advice from there and so we have to share misery, for example, with fishermen. Therefore, it seems unreasonable that we ignore the fact that some species are no longer in real danger. It concerns, for example, a cormorants that could not have been reduced. Well, the seal certainly has a quota of 1500 people, 450 of which are in Åland, but this quota has actually only been used around 20%, because there is no use for these products. This would be worth about 500,000 pots if these seal products could be used. In addition to the sensible regulation of the stock, we could get the Finnish fish on the tables, which everyone so much hopes for.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u171	Mr President! Thank you for your contributions, Members, and thank you for your encouragement. Finland continues on the path that we want regulated, well-functioning and both ethically and sustainably managed trade in seals and seal products to be possible. Together with Sweden, we are the only Member States of the European Union who, at the time, presented and pursued this line. As I said just now, it was lost, and we are now facing this situation, but we will continue with this work — you can be sure of that — in order to make this possible in the future. It is also quite true that we also want fish stocks, of course, to be protected and migratory fish stocks to be strengthened and we follow the scientific advice of ICES when we set fishing quotas, and in that way we will also limit fishing, when there is a need to limit fishing. There are also socio-economic issues, as has been said here. When all these combined are pulled together, there is no other conclusion, except that we must be able to limit the growth of the seal stock that has been strong. We have wanted to increase the seal stock — well, it has grown — and now it has grown oversized. This current procedure, which we currently have, does not produce the result we want it to produce in terms of hunting either. That's why we have to do things here. That is why, in this spring, we will also bring this treatment compensation to these predators, which will slightly improve this matter and give them a little incentive to go out there for the seal hunt and for the batch. This is a long road, but that's the way we're going forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u172	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u173	Mr President! Climate change increases abnormal weather conditions and affects water circulation, society, the environment and nature in many ways. In addition to climate change mitigation measures, there is a need to strengthen climate risk management and adaptation to climate change. Measures are needed in infrastructure and in different sectors, both in agriculture and forestry and in other sectors of industry and in various sectors of industry, as well as in a wide range of services affecting the daily lives of citizens. Even the current winter shows that this is necessary even if all climate change mitigation solutions are introduced. Instead of traditional spring floods, the change is expected to bring more and more abnormal water conditions, winter floods, heavy rains, special ice phenomena such as floods of goodness and ice dams, and droughts. This is what we have been through in the last few years. In the EU, annual flood damage is estimated to increase from around EUR 10 billion today to EUR 50 billion by 2050. In Finland, the current average level of flood damage is less than EUR 5 million per year. Flood risk is predicted to double or triple as a result of both climate change and an increase in the vulnerability of society. Flood risk management plays a key role in preparing for these changes. The EU's flood directive and its implementation must create the conditions for our national flood risk legislation, and it has created the conditions for effective flood risk management, and it has been doing so for decades. Flood risk management plans are updated every six years. The measures included are widely implemented in a number of administrative sectors, ranging from water management to regional and construction management and rescue. The proposed changes to the flood risk law and regulation will contribute to the development and implementation of flood risk management plans in river basin areas. In line with the proposal, the tasks of the Ely Centres will be specified in the assessment of the impact of abnormal water conditions, thereby strengthening the overall management of water resources in flood risk management tasks. The proposal will also improve the information management needed to plan flood risk management. The proposal extends the role of flood teams in river basin planning, monitoring their implementation and monitoring the objectives of the plans. This is intended to strengthen the practical implementation of the plans and the preparation of future plans, thereby supporting the continuity of work beyond the planning periods. The information collected in the monitoring process also supports wider monitoring of climate change adaptation and thus contributes to the preparedness of our society for different occurrences and the worsening of weather conditions that we have seen. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u174	Mr President! The extreme weather phenomena have increased, and this means that storms, floods, but also droughts are affecting us and our waters. In November, Mr Nieme and I tabled a written question on the need for the renewal of water rationing permits. In your reply — thanks for the answer — you said that the law is being changed and this government proposal is coming, and it came. In that reply you stated that this government proposal will also take account of the risks of drought. Well, that's what the law says. Indeed, as regards Article 4, it is said that drought and exceptional water situations are taken into account. Perhaps it is still necessary in committee to take this issue of drought to the point where it is necessary. It may be worth thinking about, and of course it has been thought about, but this drought is beginning to be an issue that plagues many inland waterways, for example in Pirkanmaa, Roine, Näsijärvi, Pyhäjärvi, Vanajavesi and so on. It causes problems for fishermen, for leisure use, for cottagers, for boating, for inland waterway transport — that is a big deal. Then again: right here came an ely-centre notice stating that the exemption for the regulation of Näsijärvi and Pyhäjärvi was granted immediately for use. Now I am not sure and I have not been able to get to know this exactly, but it says here that the Näsijärvi rationing company and the Ely Centre of Pirkanmaa have applied for a permanent change to the rationing permits. So I understand that a year has been granted, but this has now been applied for for for many years in a row. The aim of this is to make the Ely more flexible in regulating water bodies, especially in the spring. So I ask the Minister here: is this government proposal relevant to this matter, or will the Ely Centre continue to have to apply for such an exemption every year, as the case may be?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u175	Mr President! Once again, with joy, I must say that the Government has brought a good proposal here. The only thing I want to ask the Minister is if only then the President allows us to answer it, it is that how do we have this kind of interest, the principle of primacy, then work here, when we consider this legislation, how to value things. One hundred and the Pori region is one of the 20 flood risk areas that are completely, or whether it is said in concrete terms, where the flood risk is real. Of course there are many other areas when they have been applied for as 20 high-risk areas. When we come to an event, where we will certainly have to protect industry, housing areas — and then how do we respond to the fact that municipalities want to build areas along the river, because they are attractive, the plots are well priced, what do we do when we are prepared for this flood risk? We also have this kind of Säpilä area in Satakunta in Kokemäenjoki, where there is a nature reserve, and it has been thought that in order to avoid the risk of flooding, we would make a ditch that could receive more water, and then we are in conflict with nature values, zoning, industry. I would like to ask here: how does this legislation, at this stage, take account of the principle of priority, that what is the top priority?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u176	Thank you. Let us leave Mr Levä the answers to the last speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u177	Mr President! This legislation is good. It is good that we take advantage of the fact that, when the climate changes, we recognise risks and try to act in such a way that, if they happen, the routes are clear enough, as Mrs Huovinen wrote. In the committee, when we had a little discussion of this law, very good points were raised. After all, we have legislation on flood risks a few years ago, which guided this to an insurance-based approach, but we do not really have very good information on how this insurance system works. That is why it is so good that this too is being clarified so that consumers can, for example, convince their own houses. In addition, it is important that we take greater account of the increased risk of flooding in planning and other construction. However, this legislation does not only apply to floods, but also to droughts, which have already been raised in several speeches here. This is a matter on which very little has been discussed in Finland. The security of water supply is guaranteed in several municipalities, for example, through interconnective water pipelines, but not all municipalities have this issue under control. We have been putting an end to state aid for such projects many years ago. Something should be done to ensure that the water supply issues are in order, that it does not happen, for example, in the municipality of Petäjävesi, where there was a real emergency last autumn when there was no water. At the same time, it is good to discuss how we will continue to secure groundwater, how we will ensure that our valuable water resources are not the subject of international trade, and many other major issues. Many of the best wise men are at local or regional level, and it is therefore good that such organized thinking about how to act and what to take into account in advance is now going to happen. Of course, with a sensible organisation — even in the committee we always want to take note of the fact that there is no increase in unnecessary bureaucracy. But thank you, Minister, for this proposal too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u178	Mr President! Mr. Secretary! As Mr Kiuru has already mentioned, we conducted this joint survey on the level of the lakes, precisely because we were approached by a large number of residents in the direction of Pirkanmaa. They made this survey because the height of the waters of Näsijärvi and Pyhäjärvi, for example, has been so low in several summers that such a lake dweller’s cottage is a so-called dry land cottage in the upper waters of Näsijärvi, if it is 50 meters from the pier to the water line. This has been a major disadvantage for fishermen, recreational boaters and others. Is it possible, Minister, with this change, to avoid lowering these water levels too low, given that, for example, this winter there are practically no melting waters which would raise this so-called spring pit? Even at this point, if the heights of the lake waters are set too low, they can no longer be raised even to a reasonable height by the summer. — This one, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u179	Mr President! To that extent, I will continue the inquiry that when water is regulated by dams and power plant structures and these rationing permits exist and the power companies are in some cases very old, from 50 to 60 years old, what is this hierarchy: can this new government proposal now walk over these old rationing permits? How's that hierarchy going? There is clearly a lack of awareness about this, even for municipal decision-makers. Then yesterday's debate, which also concerned water issues. We have a citizens' initiative to prevent the privatisation of water supply, or we will certainly have it before us once it has been handed over to Parliament. Yesterday you took a very firm stand by saying that water is an important issue and is not for sale. Somehow that's the way it worked out. That was a good statement, thank you for that. I agree exactly — capitalism and enterprise are a good thing, but if we give the natural monopoly carelessly, especially to a foreign player, then there is a great risk of what is happening in the country. I encourage the Minister to follow what is happening in Pirkanmaa. We have an artificial groundwater project launched in 93 C.E. An artificial groundwater company, owned by municipalities, has been established there in 2002. We're still in the middle of a warrant. This uncertainty has now lasted more than a quarter of a century. It creates uncertainty in municipalities, it causes uncertainty in many municipalities, especially in Pälkäne, as to where the production areas are. It creates uncertainty precisely from the point of view that what will ultimately be done with those shares if the artificial groundwater company receives the permits it applies for. The project itself is unnecessary in terms of water supply. Matters have already been resolved in Tampere and the municipalities of the region in another way. In view of the situation in 93 C.E., the starting point was different. It is worth watching what is happening there and what these municipalities are planning to do with their shares. Why do they not stop the whole project, because it is simply pointless and creates uncertainty and uncertainty for both the administration and water supply?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u180	Mr President! The representatives of Kiuru and Niemi raised an important question about the regulation of surface waters, and I would like to continue on this subject, although it may not be directly related to this legislation. Apart from the fact that these agreements are very old and I would say loose, there is really no awareness of whether there will be any breach of these limits, the limits of regulation. It seems really unreasonable if, as a result of the big profits, you get a finger out of it because it does not, in a way, encourage you to stay within the limits of these agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u181	And then Minister Leppä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u182	Mr President! It is important and common that these extremes are taken seriously and that we try to update our legislation so that we have the best possible and also the most flexible tools to prevent these things, and that is why this proposal has been put forward. It is clear that we want this flexibility and more of it at local and regional level also for the authorities to act, which has been our policy. When the Ministry designated those flood risk areas until 2024, that is, for that six-year period, this was done precisely on the basis of proposals from the Ely Centres. After all, some areas were also dropped because, for example, there were measures to combat ice dams and, in general, permanent measures to control them, so that they no longer pose that risk. That is why the risk was precisely shifted and the risk areas were identified, which Mrs Myllykoski mentioned as a priority, that there are, in your region too, the most critical sites in the whole country, and that is why the priority was transferred here. And, of course, in this valuation, it is an important task for the Ely to do what and how to do with these things, but there will certainly be flexibility. Then this drought: It can't be passed, it's quite clear. It must be taken into account, as it is also taken into account in this proposal, and it is one of the things that has also come before us. Then the zoning: Of course, the municipality must also reflect against this law and the bill, where it is worth planning and where it is not worth noting that the risks are not constantly coming from there and concretely. Of course, we will assess, and the authorities are constantly assessing the height of our waters and trying as well as possible to anticipate what will happen. That is why these measuring systems of ours have developed quite well, and we can already predict the effects of their melting waters from the top to the sea, and that is what we are doing all the time. Of course, it is not always possible to predict the course of nature as to how it will happen, but that is the work we must continue to do, and research is, of course, a major part of it. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u183	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u184	Mr President! I was trying to meet this fertilizer legislation on the intranet. It is a pity that the minister now has to run away. I would have just asked whether this legislation will give us a chance to make it a little easier for organic fertilisers to get on the market. It's a pretty big deal. This may be a message to the effect that the use of common sense here too would have been allowed, now that a lot of standards have been dismantled, so that we try to find out whether there are any routes that allow the use of such a rational circular economy, organic fertilizer, for example, to the consumer, when it is well composted or, for example, biogas, and then there is this final fraction. But this is becoming another package, and I am sure it will then, hopefully, go into a little more concrete presentations. This may not have been very clear, but the EU acquis is being implemented here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u185	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. In this context, discussion is also allowed on the 8th item of the agenda. A maximum of 45 minutes shall be reserved for the joint referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u186	Mr President! When you look at that report from the Inspectorate, it seems that we have quite well done, and people also report where the money came from. Of course, there is always something small — there in the constituency always looks at the announcements of their fellow competitors, that why there has been no notification of the payer and that has indicated and where that money came from — but this has, after all, greatly improved transparency. But what worries me is that, in recent days, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has raised this issue of access to finance from foreign sources. At the moment, this financial legislation makes it possible, on the one hand, to receive foreign aid from individuals, but I am beginning to wonder whether this entry is still current. I do not know about the other representatives, but have you wondered whether, in terms of election funding, we need to make it possible for us to receive funding from abroad, which then runs its own campaign here in Finland? This is perhaps something that should be further considered in the future. On the other hand, I would also like to talk about the advance announcements, but they will probably be discussed further.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u187	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I share Mr Ovaska's view that we already have good transparency, but here are some ideas that could improve it and this election funding anyway. Parliament and the European elections once again showed why it would be necessary to set ceilings governing the size of election funding. It is alarming to think that this time, for example, it cost an average of EUR 35,000 to become a Member of Parliament and a Deputy Member of Parliament. This is not a sustainable situation for political inclusion that is strongly linked to democracy. Everyone should have a fair chance to take part in the elections. There are also big differences in the election budgets of the MPs. Part of the candidates spend up to EUR 100,000 on the campaign from one election to the next. The amounts are largely made up of donations from individuals and businesses. Young and more unknown candidates in particular find it difficult, even impossible, to gather similar electoral budgets and the visibility they bring. It is important that the financiers are public and known to the voters before the elections, and here I am referring to the issue raised by Ovaska, which should be mandatory. At present, the submission of prior notification is optional. Just over one third of the candidates for the previous parliamentary elections made voluntary prior notification of their election funding. Of my own constituency, only 25 of 45 MPs or deputy MPs from Uusimaa had made this announcement. The notification limit for the individual amount to be donated could also be reduced. Now the notification limit is EUR 1500. For us Greens, the candidate agreement limits the reporting obligation to EUR 1000. Then, on behalf of Mr Nikon, on the Chinese connections. I agree with the same reasoning and reflection as to how it is to receive this foreign money. The second point I am thinking about here is whether this election donation can be converted into an election loan afterwards and paid off and how this will affect the transparency of this funding. These should be considered in the future. In any case, it is essential that our electoral funding is as transparent, as timely and as honest as possible and that we regulate electoral funding in such a way that the amount of funding does not diminish candidates or direct election results.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u188	Mr President! Very good speeches were heard in this Chamber from Mr Ovaska and Mr Hopsu. It is good to join in on these. As can be seen from these reports by the Audit Office, there is considerable variation in campaign costs and some candidates have very high figures. On average, nearly EUR 35,000 was spent on the parliamentary election campaign. The most expensive campaign was as much as EUR 115547. Yes, such sums raise concerns as to whether our democratic opportunities for participation are open to everyone or only to those with a certain socio-economic background or with sufficient contacts with money. Such a process of inequality must not be tolerated. We must ensure that in Finland, influence and participation will continue to be possible for everyone, regardless of income level and wealth, so that in the future, as I did in the past, you can also become a candidate, for example, on the seller's salary and as a parent of a large family. One concrete and simple way to influence this issue would be to adjust the campaign ceiling. Mr Honkasalo has made a good initiative on this, and I have signed it myself. It proposes that an election-specific campaign ceiling of EUR 7500 in municipal elections, EUR 30000 in parliamentary elections and EUR 50000 in European Parliament elections be provided for in the Elections Act. The Parliamentary Audit Committee has also stated, after both the 2015 parliamentary elections and the last municipal elections, that the campaign ceiling should be clarified. Mr President! Expensive campaigns can influence not only the candidate’s ability to pass, but also the content of the policy. Whose bread you eat, its songs you sing. This is how it wants to go. It is not part of a functioning democracy that huge campaign donations buy power of decision. Therefore, the importance of transparency in electoral funding cannot be overemphasized. In fact, Mr Honkasalo's bill also proposes an amendment to the Election Finance Act to make the prior notification, which includes a plan for the funding of the elections and the costs of the election campaign compulsory. Now the prior notification is optional. In this way, the voter would already be aware of where the candidate's money comes from when he decided to vote. Mr President! I think it's good that there are people sitting in this room from corporate manager to job manager. It is precisely the Parliament that should represent the people as a whole. With the changes I have raised here, we can take better care of our democracy, and they would certainly also increase public confidence in our political system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u189	Mr President! With regard to electoral funding: I fully agree that everyone should have the opportunity to participate in the elections, regardless of their background and resources. However, things are often more complicated than one might think with a quick look. I am not saying 'yes' or 'no', but I want to bring another point of view to the debate that I have been thinking about. I am approaching this from the point of view of the parliamentary election and campaign ceiling. We in the House have a greater opportunity to be seen in the media during the parliamentary term and before the elections. Setting a campaign ceiling would be a good change for us, that is, for the Members of Parliament who are sitting. Challengers will not be able to use paid advertising to offset the competitive advantage. In other words, in practice, a campaign ceiling would be tantamount to undermining the position of the Members of Parliament who are sitting and thereby undermining democratic opportunities, and that cannot, of course, be a desirable development. Euro-denominated limits could also increase the temptation to gain visibility in other available ways. I see a risk that populist exits and sub-style campaigns might increase. So far, we have been involved in tactful campaigning in Finland. The media also exercise considerable power. A large regional newspaper can play a decisive role in deciding who will be elected if this is the case. This publicity does not cost the candidate anything. The same applies, of course, to topical and entertainment programmes on television. Some of the Members of this House are regular guests. Challengers, i.e. non-sitting candidates, will be admitted much less often. And if the challengers have these financial conditions, they can even their chances with a large budget if they so wish. Well, of course, it has to be noted that not everyone has the opportunity, but in any case the campaign ceiling could increase the relative power of the media in the elections. The campaign budget is only one competitive factor in election work. If it is restricted, the pressure to limit other competitive factors will increase. In the interests of equity and in the spirit of the initiative — that is to say, the initiative taken in due course on this electoral cap — should also regulate media visibility. However, freedom of the media and other forms of freedom of expression should not be affected. They are fundamental values in Western democracy. The campaign ceiling could also cause problems in measuring. How would the free visibility of various reference groups, organisations, lobbyists and others be valued in social media, newspapers and websites? Such support is provided by trade unions, business organisations and businesses, for example. Although this aid in euros is free of charge, it is absolutely certain that it is not free and altruistic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u190	Mr President! This debate on electoral funding and its transparency and the possibility of being elected in various general and national elections is, of course, at the very heart of democracy. In general, I can say that, in my opinion, transparency and, in all respects, good conduct in elections and electoral funding have certainly improved in Finland in recent years as a result of this legislation, which has been adopted jointly. I believe that we all believe that the situation is considerably better than it was a few years ago, and in that sense progress has indeed been very good. The candidates, of course, in parliamentary elections as well as in other elections, always have a party behind them, and cooperation between the parties is a way of doing things better. As far as this expansion of electoral funding, election campaigns, is concerned, there are significant regional differences. Many small constituencies may be elected with a much smaller campaign, and then, for example, here in the populous regions, campaigns become very expensive. In this case, the parties will also have the opportunity to conclude agreements on a constituency-by-constituencies basis to influence this. Let me take an example of my own constituency: in the constituency of Central Finland, parties have had an agreement for several years that, for example, outside advertising is not carried out in parliamentary elections. With such small measures, costs can be reduced, as there are indeed differences in the constituency. I would like to emphasise the role of the parties here: in order to achieve good results and democracy, we also need a well-functioning party system and a joint agreement on these issues. This will allow us to moderate the size and costs of campaigns without any legislative changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u191	Mr President! Of course, Mr Kiuru is absolutely right that the position of Members of Parliament who are already well-known and seated in relation to candidates who, for example, for the first time run for office is different from their starting points. It must be admitted, but it does not automatically mean, of course, that, in the end, when the voter takes a vote, the chances of passing are worse. Of course, there are a lot of ways to achieve its campaign and its sensibilities today: you don't need as much money for ads as you might have used in the past to buy that familiarity. But I personally think it is extremely important to have the courage to deal with the effects of this campaign ceiling, and these too, which Mr Kiuru pointed out, that how it would work in practice, whether it is possible. On the other hand, of course, we must remember that not all of our expenses are necessarily shown in the election money announcement. I personally came across quite a few candidates who have enthusiastic supporters who may buy advertisements with their own money or distribute advertisements or make advertisements and pay for them themselves, and they may not even supply the candidate with the receipts or the results of the advertisements. Of course, they cannot then actually be announced in the election funding, which means that anyone can put an ad somewhere — even if Mr Kiuru, if you are a candidate — and not tell you that I bought from Helsingin Sanomat or some advertising space. Of course, this is very much the case, not necessarily day-to-day and not necessarily on a large scale, but I am also concerned that not all these expenses and election advertising and funding may be left behind. I can tell you myself that when I make and make out the notification, it is all based on transactions, advertisements, announcements, rentals, etcetera, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on. Of course, there will be other expenses, like travel expenses and so on. In assessing this overall funding and the price of campaigns, I still find it a little difficult, but this current legislation does bring transparency, transparency and publicity, and that is what the citizens are asking for and still expect of us, and I hope that – and I think it is very important – this possibility of introducing a campaign cap will be clarified. That would certainly be something that can be agreed on regardless of what, from a democratic point of view, is then the best and most effective solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u192	Mr President! Congressman Pauli Kiuru brought out some good points here. If I now bring up my own opinion here, then if, for example, EUR 80,000 was dropped from the elections or failed to pass, and then EUR 300 went through, and less than EUR 10,000 went through many, many representatives, then the time for everyone to have this seat of representative on these specs is already available. To Mr Hänninen's speech, it would be quite difficult for this to happen if we began to see who was distributing the advertisements and so forth. I can see that this is already very transparent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u193	Mr President! Firstly, that there will not be a false impression, as it were, I am a ruthless advocate of transparency and a supporter of democracy and democracy. I am also concerned that the campaigns will grow. It has its own risk of distortion, but too much control has its own drawbacks, as I said in my previous speech. Mr Hänninen expressed the wish to see an analysis of whether there should be a ceiling on the expenditure of the election campaign. For me, such an explanation is very good. In fact, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated in its report in 2009 that it does not see the need to set a ceiling on the expenditure of the election campaign, that is to say that the matter has been dealt with in the Constitutional Committee and this conclusion has been reached. Well, of course, in ten years things can change, and we can figure it out again. I'm fine with that. What I am genuinely concerned about and what Mr Ovaska has also drawn attention to is that there are reports that are missing the payer. What I am perhaps paying even more attention to during the elections is that there is a small font in the corner of the announcement that reads “All-good all-round ” or some other similar association. We all know that the formal rule of electoral law will then have been fulfilled. All the best for everyone, the ry has paid for that ad. But how much does it increase transparency and understanding of where the money came from? The answer is not very much. And then this lack of sanctions: if the payer has been left undeclared, then it is not really going to happen. In other words, there is a need for rapid intervention and sanctions of some kind. It will not help much if afterwards, after the elections have taken place and the result is clear, it is said that this has not been quite right, but what then?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u194	Mr President! In fact, if we look at this electoral funding legislation that was adopted at the time less than ten years ago, it is already obsolete in a certain way, because the campaign has changed quite a bit along the way. After all, we are having a debate here all the time on conservative media and actually on buying election advertising in traditional media. But the campaigning of social media — as Mr Koponen said here, even small campaigns have come through, indicating that many have made their campaign mainly in social media. Well, there it is, funding it is a little different or quite different from traditional media when you buy newspaper advertisements, TV commercials or so on. Of course, the use of foreign funding in elections is quite a big and serious issue in terms of transparency, but with regard to this campaigning of social media and, above all, how social media influences the outcome of our elections, I dare say that it is an increasingly important issue in terms of democracy and transparency, in which Finland is still in a rather birdhouse. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has, among other things, drawn attention to this, i.e. how foreign elections are affected. Should certain rules of the game be created, and is it even possible to create them — that is a good question. And I think that there will be more and more contacts in Finland in the forthcoming elections about the different ways in which people's opinions will be moved in the social media, who will control it, where it will be financed. These matters are still completely outside our legislation. Of course, this traditional campaigning, election funding, is still being monitored, this is the way it should be, but I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that, in terms of this electoral funding legislation, we really must be aware of how and what new groups of interests affect the outcome of the elections in Finland as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-12-ps-5.u195	Mr President! I was still excited to make one speech. I'll try to keep it short. Congressman Kiuru, you also highlighted the role of the media in this election influence. I certainly agree with you that, for example, on the day before the day before the election day, there are about to be polls and then, by name, there are those who are sure to passers or likely passers, and so on, and so on, so on, in other words, such news articles and articles, I say, although I am not a professor who has a certain steering effect. I personally do not support these and I do not consider them to be good from a democratic point of view, and I would like to see these things not done, but, of course, the independence of the media and freedom of speech and so on, what can I say? When you think about the situation in those constituencies, that also, of course, partly makes it difficult for candidates, for example, to want to do that election campaign and work, if there is already been a waiting time, that you have no chance that you will come from the media already this kind of kick in the ass so to speak, and it is not in my opinion that it is fair to anyone. In my opinion, it is very interesting — when Mr Honkonen brought in his constituency's common rules for this debate in the Chamber — that an agreement has been reached that this kind of outdoor advertising is not practiced at all and this type of advertising. The rules of the game in the various regions should then be considered, even though it may not be a decision in this Chamber, but they would certainly be welcome. Indeed, social media today is the place where much is being done, where opinion is being influenced, but what is worrying about it is that supervision is lame. So if there are so-called fake news or anything else, it is very difficult to root out or get out of there, so we have a lot of work to do. I would see that, as far as the electoral funding law is concerned, this development must continue and reform our law as well. And then there's one more point. In other words, when we have this current obligation to report in the parliamentary elections only the elected one and the first reserve, and yet we know that in this four-year period things can happen and things can happen and even if someone from that third thief gets in the parliament, it is a little incomprehensible why not everyone has to report it. There would then be a more equal, equal and transparent situation.
