ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 8/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u2	Mr President! I shall therefore present the committee's report. The Government's proposal for a law on the temporary amendment of the Aliens Act temporarily extends the right to work for those seeking international protection. The limitation period for starting work would be abolished for applicants for international protection who, upon the entry into force of the law, have an international protection case pending either before the Finnish Immigration Service or the Administrative Court. The duration of the right to work will be extended so that the right to work will continue despite an enforceable expulsion decision as long as reception services are provided to a foreigner. The Administrative Committee notes that the proposed temporary legislation has no direct impact on the implementation of expulsion decisions. The police may remove a person from the country, even if he or she has a right to work under the proposed law and is employed under it if the return is practically possible under exceptional circumstances. According to the expert opinion, the extension of the right to work may have an impact on a person’s willingness to leave the country. In this context too, the committee stresses... [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne : Excuse me, Congressman Purra, momentary. — — — — I'm asking you to keep a safe distance in this room. Thank you. — Please. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u5	Mr President! As the Christian Democrats have already said in that referral debate, we support this bill in other respects, except in the case of those who have received a legitimate negative decision to extend this right to work. Mr President! It is indeed important that this change temporarily extends the right to work for those who have applied for protection, and this is particularly important in these agricultural and horticultural sectors. These are important areas for security of supply, and it is indeed important that we make available all possible labour reserves. It is notable what has already been said in that committee hearing and in the referral debate that this bill will not in large measure increase the number of persons entitled to work, and if we consider the need — 16,000 workers who are currently seasonal workers in the agricultural sector — this is just a small addition to it, but the KD believes that this addition is absolutely essential, and in that sense we are in favour of this bill in other respects. Mr President! That hearing of the Administrative Committee has highlighted, among other things, the view of the Police Government, the fact that this situation, in which it would be possible for those who have received a negative decision to continue, is neither desirable nor to be supported. In this case, it must be borne in mind that it is difficult for an employer to be aware of whether an employee has a valid residence permit or not. In that sense, too, it may be thought that the employer should not be burdened in this respect. It is therefore the simplest thing that an employee is not entitled to work if he is also not entitled to reside in the country and has a negative decision. Mr President! In other respects, the KD is indeed in favour of this bill, and this is a good addition to this difficult employment situation in the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u6	Mr President! The amendment to the Aliens Act is one of the government's proposals aimed at facilitating the seasonal survival of agriculture and horticulture this spring and summer. This proposal, which is now being discussed, removes the time limit for starting work for asylum seekers who have applied for asylum at the time of entry into force of the law. Other proposals relating to this acquisition of seasonal employment in agriculture and horticulture are a fixed-term increase in the protection component of unemployment security, an extension of the scope of mobility allowance provided for in the unemployment security legislation for a limited period, and then a temporary non-application of the income threshold for the abandonment of agricultural aid. These all have their own meaning. Today's first amendment, this amendment to the foreign law, has quite marginal significance over the whole, but of course these have their own meaning. However, the most significant is the package of decisions taken by the government to get seasonal labour outside the EU and the EEA regions into the country. In the past, 4500 workers outside the EU and the EEA have already been decided on, and last Friday evening the government then announced that another 4500 seasonal workers will be allowed to enter the country, i.e. a total of 9000 is the figure for which such a possibility exists. Of course, this involves the fact that Migri, the Finnish Immigration Service, is, I would say, quite moderate in its work, and those decisions are very much awaited. Some farmers may fall two or three a day, but even a slightly larger entrepreneur will then have to wait for them. What is important, however, is that these experienced workers outside the EU and the EEA should be admitted, and it would be desirable for the government to take one more decision to remove that quantitative ceiling, i.e. to have the necessary number.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u7	Mr President! The government's proposal for a law on the temporary amendment of the foreign law is a green day's sleep. This proposal is nothing more than a green left ideology that has nothing to do with reality and even less importance for these sectors. This is where the green left moves, the demos and the center whine. The situation is that the outcome of this law will be clear. This law will do little to help anyone, because at the moment the asylum seekers who are already in the country when the need for seasonal labour comes — almost all the thousands that have been tried to make this happen — have the right to work in Finland under the current law. Thus, a huge army of officials, parliament, committees, unnecessary time and taxpayers' money has been used here only to stamp on the temporary law the unnecessary label of the Green Left. We can say that this amendment of the law would affect about a thousand asylum seekers in Finland who are in three or six months’ pass, while some four thousand are inactive in the country. How many of these run in the fields? The government itself admits that this law will employ only a few dozen critical seasonal jobs. The impact on employment in terms of number of persons will be much lower than the number of experts and the various installations that have been consulted for this presentation. During this period, the use of such resources is a ruthless green left-wing policy. In this Chamber, as a gentleman's agreement, we have agreed to deal with the factors that really affect the crisis. Finland is in trouble, and in this Chamber we are dealing with a bill that will not help a single drop in this true pattern of problems. This Chamber should now focus on the fact that the Finns will survive this crisis and not on the futility that the other one, the left one, brings to this Chamber to boost its political ideology. I think very badly about this kind of policy in times of crisis. When the gentlemen's agreement says that we are doing things together for Finland, no ideologies will then be brought into this Chamber. I hope so in the future. We must also look the truth in the eyes. So there are asylum seekers who are under a prom in the working world at the moment, and now, if we say straight to the Finnish people, that illegal, undocumented, illegal people in this country are being led to work by a green ideology,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u8	Mr President! The aim here is to respond to the need for seasonal labour on farms and in the horticultural sector, and this is, unfortunately, a rather modest measure in relation to this need. In that referral debate, when this proposal was submitted by the government to Parliament, I said that the decision to leave must be consistent and should mean that the person must be removed quickly even during the corona period. The Coalition Party has been working on this in the Administrative Committee and our committee director, the representative In a few moments, the Winter Road will present our objection and correction to this proposal. The aim, therefore, is to try to solve the problem of access to seasonal labour with a relatively small measure. There are about a thousand of these people in Finland who would be affected by this, and it seems that this has employed more Finnish officials, parliamentarians and others than what this is really going to do to bring these seasonal workers into the garden and agriculture. The real need for seasonal labour is even more than 16,000 workers, and now it is necessary to ask what measures the government is taking to bring these seasonal workers here. The representative of the city centre, Kiviranta, did speak beautifully. He said that a decision has been taken on 4500 seasonal workers, and now it has been raised to 9000, but if Mr Kiviranta were in the Chamber, I would ask: why has the government only received less than 900 seasonal workers in Finland at this stage? Nearly 70% of producers would have needed information on the availability of seasonal labour at the beginning of April in order not to jeopardise production during this period, i.e. unhelpably late. The European Commission has also called on EU countries to allow foreign agricultural workers to enter, despite the restrictions imposed by the pandemic, and it seems strange if someone in Finland is opposed to it, so that these foreign seasonal workers cannot be brought here. There are three questions: The government is likely to have been aware of the issue of seasonal employment in agriculture as early as February. At least Minister Leppää and his team of assistants have already been backed up by officials from the Ministry about the seriousness of the situation and possible solutions. Why has the Marin government not been operating since February when the matter has been brought to light? Why have only minimum measures been chosen under political guidance, even though the government has publicly stated week after week that it is doing all it can? The need for seasonal labour
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u9	Mr President! The objective of alleviating labour shortages in security of supply sectors is correct. The epidemic of interest rates and the restrictions on border traffic in certain areas of Finland have led to a very difficult labour shortage, but when we look at this shortage of labour, it is indeed a very, very modest measure to respond to it. The need for seasonal workers totals more than 16,000 people, and now in this proposal we are talking about some dozens of workers, which is a very micro-sized answer to this big problem. The benefits of this proposal will be reduced by the fact that only a part of the security of supply sectors would be affected. It would apply to agricultural, forestry, horticultural and fisheries activities, but would leave out some of the security of supply sectors. Not only do we draw attention to the fact that these benefits are limited, but we also held a debate in committee on the fact that these benefits are limited in relation to the disadvantages that this brings, for example, as a reduction in the asylum system. We accept the abolition of carnage time for applicants for international protection as a temporary measure, but it is good to emphasise this temporaryity, as this proposal, as a permanent measure, would create an unhealthy incentive for Finland to enter the country as an asylum seeker after work, bypassing work-related immigration routes and waiting times. Secondly, in the context of the asylum system, we are paying attention to those who have received a negative decision. The opinion of the Police Department of the Ministry of the Interior states that ‘expansion of labour law,if only a temporary solution, did notincentivise applicants for asylum to comply with theirreturnobligationsand returnto their country of origin We share this concern and that is why this proposed temporary derogation from the right to work for applicants for international protection should be limited to those seeking international protection. It should also be ensured that the employer is informed of the termination of the right to work of the employee, in this case the asylum seeker. The worker does not necessarily have an interest in telling us about such a change in his situation, and that is why, for example, in that committee we proposed that the obligation to provide information should be made available to the authorities so as to ensure that this information is passed on. Sumsummarum: This government proposal brings little relief when implemented in a controlled way. However, we strongly expect the government to take immediate and effective action to increase the supply of labour in key areas of security of supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u10	Mr President! According to the Government, the aim of this proposal is to increase the supply of labour in work that is essential for security of supply, but it is clear that this proposal does not guarantee our food supply and the need for 16,000 seasonal workers. Minister Ohio considers that ‘the asylum seekers would like to carry out work ‘and’s premises arecarried out carefully’. There is a difference of opinion as to whether asylum seekers want to work. Even licensed asylum seekers do not go to work. Based on the public data of Statistics Finland's employment statistics, the overall employment rate of persons with refugee background was only 26 per cent in 17 years. The same statistics also show that only 20 of these people were engaged in agricultural or forestry work. However, the attempt to employ a few ten asylum seekers in such a large picture does not solve anything at all. On this point, I agree with the Minister that the concerns of the farms must be listened to. Where are the government's proposals for the employment of hundreds of thousands of Finns who have been laid off, made redundant or lost their summer jobs at the last minute? There are also over half a million students aged 18 or over in Finland, of whom only a little more than half are employed. It is therefore clear that students have huge labour potential, but the highest income limits in the Nordic countries do not encourage students to work. Work will be punished for the recovery of student aid. I therefore propose that the government allow students to accept seasonal work that is critical for security of supply without the recovery of study aid for 2020, in order to see employment on farms as an attractive and economically viable option.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u13	Mr President! This bill is justified throughout the way by the fact that agriculture needs a workforce and that all the stones must be turned to find the workforce. However, no draft law should be assessed solely on the basis of its objectives. Two questions have to be asked: does the amendment of the law contribute to these objectives, and does it have a negative impact? The law applies only to asylum applications submitted after the entry into force of the law. As no new applicants have come in recent months and as a rule the duration of the qualifying period is three months, the majority of the target group will have a very close right to work under the current law in the future. Secondly, as many have said here, the employment rate of asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection is uncomfortably poor. The main countries of origin of asylum seekers are Iraq, Somalia and Afghanistan. Of all the people from these countries, less than one per cent are employed in agriculture-related tasks. Thus, employment does not take place despite the work permit. This means that a few months of toughness is not the reason for the poor employment rate of the arrivals and that it is not possible to improve the employment rate by removing this badness. Mr President! During the spring it has become clear that Finnish unemployed people are not eligible for seasonal work. Against this background, too, it is interesting that language and unskilled asylum seekers who have just arrived in the country see such a decisive potential. It is incomprehensible that the government spends its time on this rather than trying to push the vast majority of asylum seekers and those enjoying international protection who have the right to work but do not want to work. This is also incomprehensible because Parliament is unable to work normally and there should be no more than necessary and urgent legislative proposals here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u16	Mr President! This amendment to the Aliens Act was discussed in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, that is to say in the Committee of Experts. There, too, it was a source of wonder, but of course it came to this report with the power of the government parties. The Coalition Party has left a difference of opinion on this issue, and we will continue to do so. This report by the Committee on Administrative Affairs does not get any crazier on this issue. It is still difficult to come up with a rational basis for extending the right to work, even in the post-exit period which is provisionally enforceable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u23	Mr President! Thank you for the vigorous contributions made by the opposition, and thank you also to Mr Sankelo for taking note of the fact that the centre is, of course, the leading defender of rural areas. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u30	Mr President! This is the government's proposal for a temporary amendment of the Aliens Act and proposes a temporary amendment of the Aliens Act in relation to the employment law of the applicant for international protection. This is justified by the shortage of labour in the agricultural and forestry sectors. The need for seasonal labour is over 16,000. This fixed-term amendment of the law could bring in perhaps a few dozen workers, yet unlanguaged workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u39	Mr President! The Government's proposal tells us in harsh language that there is not enough Finnish labour force available for seasonal agricultural work. If the domestic seasonal labour market were attractive, we would not be dealing with this type of bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u46	Mr President! Here, the Finns of Peru have often accused of greenwashing, ideological greenwashing, and that,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u49	Mr President! This proposal proposes a temporary amendment to the foreign law. The amendment would temporarily extend the right to work for the applicant for international protection. The limitation period for starting work would be abolished for applicants for international protection who, upon the entry into force of the law, have an international protection case pending either before the Finnish Immigration Service or the Administrative Court. The duration of the right to work would be broadened so that the right to work would continue despite an enforceable expulsion decision as long as reception services are provided to a foreigner. Mr President! This government proposal is purely ideological and confuses both the asylum system and work-related migration processes. Such a law undermines the credibility of the asylum system and does not encourage asylum seekers who have received a negative decision to comply with the obligation to return. How can the government send such a signal to illegal residents? Why do you want to keep them in Finland? It's not in anyone's interest. Mr President! The Government is marketing its bill on the grounds of protecting the population and safeguarding the functioning of society and the economy. However, the employment impact of the proposed changes is estimated to be only a few dozen or hundreds of workers, although the need is greater than 16,000 people. How can this even be sold for the above reasons? The protection of the population or safeguarding the functioning of society cannot depend on dozens or even hundreds of foreigners — and this is all done at a time when hundreds of thousands of Finns have been laid off or laid off because of the corona crisis. The government's proposal and the message it sends out is extremely toxic in the eyes of these inactive people. In addition to hundreds of thousands of layoffs, thousands of young people and students are at risk of missing summer jobs. It would therefore be very necessary to encourage farmers to employ Finns in particular and to take legislative measures to facilitate the employment of Finnish laid-off and unemployed people without making it unprofitable for them to receive seasonal work. As a result of the removal of Karenss, whether or not a person really needs international protection will no longer have any practical meaning. By moving to the labour market, a person who originally entered the country as an asylum seeker can apply for a worker’s residence permit and thus remain in the country despite a negative asylum decision. Opening the labour market to people who do not have knowledge of the rules of play in Finnish society and in Finnish working life will increase abuses and exacerbate low-wage immigration
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u50	Mr President! This issue has been prepared and dealt with for a long time and in a wide range of ways, as can be seen from the extensive consultation material. There are problems, admittedly, but they can be controlled. I shall now read the only quote directly from the report of the Committee on Administration: ‘The committee acknowledges that the proposed interim legislation does not have a The police may remove a person from the country, even if he or she has a right to work under the proposed law and is employed under it if the return is practically possible under exceptional circumstances. In the committee’s expert consultation’—otherwise referred to—‘the assessment In this context too, the Committee stresses that an effective return policy is a key element of an effective immigration and asylum policy. Effective return is also essential for the functioning of the EU Common Asylum System.” This is not an immigration policy proposal, although I understand that the Finns of Finland are trying to do this in the debate. This is labour policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u56	Mr President! This temporary amendment to the foreign law is particularly necessary if we are to look at our security of supply and the situation in which we are now faced because of the lack of these foreign professionals. If we consider that the need is 16,000 and we currently have the opportunity to add 4500 plus 4500 to what has been mentioned earlier, there will be a shortage of 7,000 workers. While considering the measures that the temporary amendment of the Unemployment Security Act will also allow Finnish unemployed people to go to work there, the problems are still very great. I see this in such a way that although this temporary amendment of the law is so minor, it is necessary to turn all the stones and stumps and find those workers for agriculture, because it is a question of our security of supply. If we look at this from the farmer's point of view, the farmer needs all the workers he can get, and the question is that this option is one possibility of getting more workers there. They are all doing valuable work for our security of supply and handling those matters and then taking our security of supply forward and ensuring that we get that domestic food from our fields. It is also important to note that these foreign workers are also protected by good working conditions and decent accommodation, and in the same way wages and employers' responsibilities are reviewed. The legal protection of the employer must also be taken into account in that respect if he has accidentally hired a foreigner to be removed without being prosecuted. Here are many things that require understanding and caring for. That is why I see that the regional government authority should also have sufficient resources to look at these issues. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u57	Mr President! Indeed, we are well aware that sectors that are essential for security of supply are currently suffering from serious labour shortages due to the presence of a corona pandemic. That is why I too am pleased that the government has brought in a number of proposals to resolve this situation, various proposals which, for example, Mr Kivisaari here has been well dealt with. This is indeed one of them now. Not only does this proposal make it possible for workers who are critically needed in agriculture, but I would also like to point out that this also serves asylum seekers themselves, even though this is not a change of policy on immigration. So at the moment we have people in Finland who would like to work, and we have sectors that would need workers, but at the moment we are denying the combination of these things, and I do not see that it is in anyone's interest. The asylum seeker, who is not an employee, is exclusively covered by the reception system, and this is also not free of charge, which means that this amendment of the law can also benefit from a small part of the state's treasury. Well, last season, the government did decide to extend the period of validity of the right to work for asylum seekers to the latest application period, i.e. the asylum seeker who has acquired a job during the first reading will have to stop working for several months when this application is pending and only after the qualifying period will he be able to return to the same job. This is a completely unnecessary and extra tough time in the middle of a working relationship, and I do not see that this really serves anyone. Mr President! The second point I would like to draw attention to is the working conditions of foreign workers. Foreign workers must also be guaranteed working conditions under the agreements and decent accommodation during the employment relationship. Unfortunately, it is a fact that previous inspections have identified shortcomings in these. For example, many farms employing foreigners have found problems in paying wages and in keeping with working time records. Foreign workers are often particularly vulnerable because they do not necessarily have the knowledge or the courage to sue for these violations. I think that the rights of every employee, whether foreign or Finnish, must be safeguarded. Mr President! It is clear that this change in the law alone will not solve the shortage of seasonal workers, but this is a natural and human rights-friendly way of promoting the availability of labour and improving the rights of asylum seekers and the security of supply in Finland at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u58	Mr President! As is often the case in politics, the objectives are common, but the means are political, and they can be very different in how they can be achieved. As far as the last few months are concerned, we all know that there is a shortage of workers in the security of supply sectors, but the coalition has called for effective and responsible measures and also for clarity in these legislative matters. That is why it was necessary to leave this amendment to the foreign law in the Administrative Committee where we discussed it to protest. In particular, we pointed out in the protest that if and when the right to work is extended, there is an unclear message when, in the case of a person who has received a valid negative decision, the government proposes that labour law and residence permit should therefore continue. The coalition assumes that those who have received a valid negative asylum decision will have to leave the country of origin as soon as possible, and if this is not done, the credibility of the entire asylum system will be called into question — precisely the system which is intended to target our limited resources and assistance to genuinely needy people. As far as this proposal is concerned, which would actually help only a few farms: in its opinion, the MTK stated that asylum seekers at national level are not the solution to the shortage of labour in the field of seasonal farm work. MTK considers it important that, in all situations, the employer can ensure the right to work for the applicant for employment easily, quickly and free of charge by asking the authority. Indeed, the coalition suggests that there should be some kind of information obligation to end the right to work for an asylum seeker to the employer, because the use of illegal labour is nevertheless a crime. Then, with regard to this extension of the sector — Mr Lindén wondered how the assembly would then like to extend this scope: Well, in the Administrative Committee, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, which is the Ministry of Employment, chaired by the Minister of Labour Haatainen, did not consider it clear from the whole point of view that the right to work, the suitability of employment, would be limited to the change in the foreign law at the beginning of April, in which case the Government Decree clearly defined these security of supply sectors. That is why we proposed that it would be more profitable to apply for the effectiveness of this proposal in order to allow asylum seekers to pick wild berries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u59	Mr President! Indeed, this is based solely on ideology, and I cannot accept, under any circumstances — not even the Finns of Peru — the bypassing of such a system of asylum by giving jobs out of the field, which is of no use at all. However, it is not our fault that asylum seekers have not been employed more than always by a handful of people. Nor do I really understand what Mr Lindén has just said about the gentleman's agreement. This is precisely the violation of the gentlemen's agreements to bring such proposals here in the Chamber, at such a time. This spring has been full of ideological things of all appearances, which should in no way be here at the time of this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u62	Mr President! I have to say to the previous representative that other urgent issues, such as those relating to EU directives, are also being discussed in the committees, and I hope that this decision-making process will gradually take place here in Parliament. We are now dealing with the welcome proposal on the possibility for asylum seekers who are already in our country to participate in work without having to do so, in this proposal on the seasonal work of agriculture and, at the moment, until the end of October. The Finnish Immigration Service estimates that there are currently around six thousand asylum seekers of working age in the reception system. About a thousand of them are those who do not have the right to work due to the qualifying period. The estimates of seasonal labour in this presentation are not large, they move in dozens and hundreds. That is why I do not understand the opposition's noise about this one government measure in relation to the whole, which will safeguard food security. [Sheikki Laakso’s interlude] Asylum seekers are a necessary labour force right now, as the annual number of people who usually come to garden work is lower than before. In many other areas in the years to come, asylum seekers and later beneficiaries of asylum or work-based residence permits would be required to work as the population ages. By 2030, it is estimated that the number of working-age people in Finland will decrease by 130,000 persons. Everyone who has arrived here is important as long as integration and training are successful. It is an excellent way to get a job as quickly as possible, and quotes the EK: “It is important that the attitudes towards foreign workers become more favourable in Finland. “ Does this conversation reflect it? In this situation, farmers' messages indicate that they have had to wait for access to work. Unfortunately, it has taken a long time to prepare the proposal. Employers have also had the timidity to strengthen employment relationships, as potential workers from abroad, already trained in previous years, have been expected.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u63	Mr President! On many occasions in this Chamber, we have dealt with the agricultural situation. After all, at the moment agriculture is in trouble because it requires 16,000 workers and they are currently not available, for example because of the corona virus and mainly because of it. Last week we were dealing here with the beneficiaries of the waiver, who, in an exceptional situation, are now able to work on farms without losing that waiver. We were also talking about increasing the protective portion. This is, therefore, the protection element of unemployment benefit, which has so far been EUR 300, and now it will be increased to EUR 500 until the end of the year. So, of course, this is about measures which, as it were, seek replacement labour for what is not available now, but, if we look at the issue we are dealing with today, this is about the right of asylum seekers in need of international protection to work in the agricultural, forestry, horticultural and fisheries sectors. I think the problem here is that now that we are expanding and improving their rights to work in these areas, we may be sending a message to these countries that we can come to Finland with asylum status and then apply for work. Of course, this possibility has existed in the past, but here it is being improved in a rather significant way, and I think it is a worrying message, considering that there would have to be two routes: those who come here to work are seeking that route, and then the need for asylum and international protection is another route, a completely different reason to apply to Finland. If we think numerically, we currently have about 6,000 asylum seekers, some 4,000 of whom can already work. Looking at this report from the Administrative Committee, it says that perhaps about 20 people may be employed by this bill, and I think it is a rather modest number. Furthermore, it is also noted that the implementation of enforceable exit decisions will certainly become more difficult and more problematic because, in this situation, of course, these people do not have the same motivation to return to their country of origin. In other words, this is not entirely without problems, and I am sure that there is some ideological emphasis on this, given the impact of this draft law on the agricultural labour force. Mr President! I understand the reasons for this bill, but I do find it problematic for the reasons mentioned above.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u64	Mr President! This bill, which is in this debate, is not a world-breaking thing. This only started with the fact that, from the point of view of the seasonal workers on farms, there was no such thing as a labour force. Indeed, such an exceptional draft law in an exceptional situation supports this in order to have a temporary workforce for farms in the spring, now that it was needed during the sowing season, and then, of course, it will be needed during the future harvest season. When there was no labour force, therefore, such exceptional arrangements are made, and these arrangements should not draw any conclusions that the Finnish immigration, immigration or entry line would have somehow changed. Nothing's changed. We'll go with the same methods. This exemption law is quite right, as we all know, only for a limited period of time, and then it will no longer exist. I don't think we should draw any conclusions from this. But what I really want to pay attention to is the desire of the Finns themselves to work. After all, it is incomprehensible that we have hundreds of thousands of unemployed people and cannot do this kind of work. Where is this world going when we are here in the northern corner here in Fennoscandia and far from everyone and then the situation is that ordinary work is no longer good enough. That's what I'm really worried about. I remember a time when I was a young man, when all the work that was being done was being done. Everything happened, especially in the forest or in the spring, even a seedling or nursery work, which was extremely hard for a young man as such. It was done when nothing else was available, yet it rewarded and taught respect for the work. This is the big problem for us Finns. Just as much we lack skilled labour from various types of nursing, there are no truck drivers, there are no machine drivers, there are no excavator drivers, there is nothing else. There is a huge shortage of work everywhere — there is a huge shortage of workers, there is not necessarily a shortage of work in itself, and we have a huge number of unemployed people. This is the huge problem that exists in this country, and that is what we ourselves must find solutions to. The solution is not that a few airplanes are flown here from somewhere. It's just emergency aid for the moment you're on. But we Finns must now learn to work if one day we want to pay off those debts, and above all because we can keep this country in order. With such small viscous scones, small exceptions or some other means, it will not happen, but once again, when we take up the job, it will work quite quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u65	Mr President! I am, as you know, a lampman from Närpiö, where more than 10 per cent of the population is of foreign origin, the employment rate is more than 80 per cent. We had a city council seminar yesterday: the result for the municipality was over one million last year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u66	Mr President! The temporary extension of labour law for asylum seekers is a timely and very necessary interest rate measure. This bill will help alleviate the labour shortages caused by the corona epidemic, particularly in berry and vegetable farms. The law is important to safeguard Finnish food production in these exceptional circumstances. Of course, other measures are needed. This is only one way to alleviate the shortage of labour in agriculture. It makes perfect sense to take advantage of all the workers legally employed in the country in this situation. Although, as a whole, it is this change that can lead to a smaller workforce, it matters locally. The presentation has been praised by farmers, for example in my home town of Lappeenranta, where the state reception centre is located in Konnususuo. In Lappeenranta, entrepreneurs and the reception centre have already cooperated well in advance by identifying suitable and willing employees for work on the premises. Based on the surveys, it has been found that asylum seekers have a high motivation to work. It is only sensible to extend the employment opportunities of asylum seekers at a time when farms need additional labour to secure Finnish food production. The interim legislative proposal before us is good in two directions: it will give most asylum seekers the opportunity to work instead of inactivity, and farmers will be relieved of their seasonal labour shortages. It is a little difficult to understand those who oppose this. That opposition does show a strong ideology. Fortunately, it makes sense for the government to act decisively in this exceptional situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u69	Mr President! Dozens, hundreds or thousands? The reality is that this applies to all around 5,000 asylum seekers who are currently in this country and who already have a work permit. This change will make it easier for employers to hire these people, as the risk for employers of ending their work permit like a wall when a negative residence decision comes will disappear. This applies not only to the thousands mentioned here, but to all asylum seekers. The shortage of seasonal workers in agriculture is a genuine problem which is now being solved in this Chamber. We need all the means and all the willing workers to do this work so that we can ensure food security and agriculture conditions during the corona crisis. The Government has issued several legislative proposals and has also decided to bring foreign seasonal workers to do these work in a controlled manner. The proposals submitted by the government have concerned both unemployment benefit and now this problem or a change in the terms of the waiver. I am surprised that this single instrument is now labeled as an insignificant means, as, for example, this change in the terms of the withdrawal aid affects an even smaller number of people and its employment potential is estimated to be measurable in about 100. It is clear that no means alone is enough — no one here has said so, nor does the government think so, and that is why more means have been introduced. We need all these means, big and small. Personally, I think that if there is a need for labour and a willing, capable workforce in the country, it is good if these needs meet. It is, in fact, extraordinary that the assembly opposes this principle and the idea, while at the same time pushing for the elimination of the need test, namely that the employer should be able to choose his own employees. If an entrepreneur has a need for seasonal labour and there are workers in the country who want to work, and these two things meet, is it not good that the work is done?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u70	Mr President! The proposal proposes a temporary amendment to the Aliens Act. The amendment would also temporarily extend the right to work for the applicant for international protection. The proposed amendments would concern the start and end of the right to work who has applied for international protection. The aim of the proposal is therefore to increase the supply of labour, in particular in those jobs which are essential for security of supply or for the functioning of the labour market. We discussed the matter in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and we also disagreed with the opinion. I'll tell you a little more about it. From our point of departure, we thought it was a dead idea that the provisional government solutions now presented could both safeguard and promote our security of supply in certain sectors of our country. Instead, the present proposal is extremely dangerous for Finland, as it opens up a new route for unreasonably staying in the country and a bypass to work-related immigration. We simply cannot accept this development, because it cannot be that, under the pretext of a corona pandemic, people who already have an enforceable expulsion decision can, in practice, remain in Finland to work. On the other hand, it should also be remembered that the economy of our country, and not even the economic capacity of our country, can withstand such political steps by a sitting government. Once again, this proposal before us demonstrates the real priorities and efforts of the government. The Government continues to invest heavily in immigration, both to halt climate change and to improve the rest of the world. For the government, the welfare of Finland and Finns should be ahead of everything. It is also necessary to highlight the fact that the proposal continues to involve other traditional projects relating to so-called labour migration, which should have nothing to do with, for example, agricultural crop work or other sectors that are in need of foreign labour. Mr President! Finally, I have nothing against seasonal workers in agriculture and horticulture as such, because genuine and real seasonal workers come into the country, work and leave the country. I understand that the government wants these people, and this law is now being temporarily amended. But, as I mentioned, genuine and real seasonal workers do not burden our country's social security and services, because they will not remain in the country after the job has ended. However, this proposal before us does not support the above view. I do not want to support, for example, the presence of people who already have an expulsion decision. Moreover, I see that the government must take measures that genuinely resolve the labour shortages faced by the crisis of interest rates in critical sectors. Therefore, far-reaching measures must also be taken to genuinely secure the availability of labour in these sectors within Finland in the future. In the first place, large-scale recruitment campaigns must be launched and efforts must be made to tackle the obstacles to employment, as the Finns of Finland have already said.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u71	Mr President! We have to pay tribute to the Green League. These clever city foxes have secured the center to a parsina where they stand or lie but are unable to move. There's already been a deal for a cow there. Yes, many loads of ideological feed must have been devoured so that this proposal too can be accepted. Oh, I miss Feedula. There is a real need for seasonal work and, for example, it is necessary to have pickers for picking forest berries. However, this proposal tries to get up to a few dozen languageless asylum seekers to pick up a vacuum cleaner or a crash. Representative Holopainen said that the legal workforce should be put to work. However, this proposal allows for the bypassing of illegal residents into society. Do you think that an asylum seeker from Syria goes on a burka to crash between potato cracks? Or do you think that the Iraqi who arrived in the capital region is going with a berry vacuum cleaner to Kainuu to eat mosquitoes so that the representative of Kivisaari can have berries in his pie? If, in fact, this change in the law leads to a massive employment of asylum seekers and a significant improvement in security of supply, then hopefully these huge job-seeking queues will keep in mind the security gap. In reality, this law is of no real benefit but may be detrimental to national security. The People's Party have asked for this to be rejected in committee, and we will be presenting it here as well. It would also be good to enable Finns to participate in agricultural and horticultural work. One way is from the Left Alliance: They have put forward a series of nature protection teams in which public-sector paid work would be carried out in climate and biodiversity projects. Is there anything as central as this summer's seasonal work? Why do you not propose wage subsidies to the private sector in order to get the Finns to work? It cannot be that downshifting, picking pine cones and sniffing the spoon is more important than making it possible for Finns to be self-sufficient in seasonal work? In this respect, these forces have the potential for development and the labour market dimension. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u72	Mr President! The proposal is indeed one of the more facilitations of immigration policy that the government has brought or imported during the period of the interest rate — that is, now that it is not to be imported. This amendment aims at facilitating immigration and reducing the incentives for exit for people who are not entitled to international protection. There is really nothing extraordinary about this — the goal can be found in the Government Programme. Non-governmental organisations involved in the refugee business and other so-called humanitarian actors have been calling for work permits for illegal residents for years, so it is no wonder that this comes to Parliament during the term of the Greens' Home Secretary. As has been said many times here, this change will not benefit the availability of agricultural workers or the provision of food, and it is not even claimed in the proposal. The proposal is not based on actual data, not on statistics, not on international comparisons, nor on economic calculations. No proper impact assessments have been carried out, and the Administrative Committee again did a considerable job of pulling something off. On the basis of public statistics, we know that the overall employment rate of people with refugee background is around 26%. As has already been said several times, agriculture and forestry accounts for around 0.07% of these, or just under one per cent. This very simple figure actually tells us all about this presentation. The amendment of the law is meant to be temporary, fortunately this is the case, but we must see how the practice then follows, namely that it is quite difficult to return a work permit. Above all, it is difficult to return anyone from this country to these particular countries. It is therefore in line with the Government Programme — it is not a corona action. This proposal was originally intended to be even more liberal, i.e. to address all low-wage sectors, not just agriculture and forestry. It has been said here that this is only part of government packages aimed at facilitating incentives to work. It is precisely the lifting of the unemployment benefit component, which has been discussed here in recent days, that is a very short measure. Not only does it encourage anyone to increase this one element of protection, but of course it should also be reflected in housing support and income support. This is what tells us about these priorities. If free housing, free food and free health care, such as for these asylum seekers, were offered to Finnish laid-off or unemployed people, I believe that Finns would also have incentives to move to agriculture to work. After all, the True Finns have suggested that seasonal jobs in agriculture could go to work because of the interest rate, laid off or unemployed, and he would retain the entire benefit on his salary income. I believe this would encourage these people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u73	Mr President! I do not know what has been the stage where this has been even more liberal. At least when this was the case in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry with an opinion, the ministry officials said that this is very specific to these very areas and these areas, which I am particularly pleased with, because the last time this was discussed, I was personally disappointed that, in relation to these Ukrainian seasonal workers, the repertoire was extended in precisely that direction, which is now inside the assembly, so that the Ministry, with regard to other than the security of supply sectors, could change the possibilities of working. It is, of course, precisely the coalition ideology that interferes with contract law and brings the stones into a shoe that allows access to be broken down. In that sense, I am pleased that this is now so precise that with this kind of thing we do not have to wrestle in the future. I would now like to hear a few other examples of these contributions. I hope that is not the case when Mr Vartiainen has proposed the removal of Sunday's allowances here. It can be said that for shift workers, for example, this means 15% for the year, and it is exactly the same in these low-paid sectors where work is done on Sundays and there is also short working hours. It is an integral part of the annual earnings of a Finnish employee in the low-wage sector. In reality, neither the government nor the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry saw that this is now blowing up and removing all the shortcomings for seasonal workers, but this is the small part that must be taken advantage of at this point, because turning the back on one seasonal worker is a bad signal for the agricultural sector in this situation. In that sense, the preparation has been taken into account that it aims at those solutions. It would be desirable for us to still be able to discuss in this Chamber the taking of laid-off Finnish work as a seasonal worker, in which case he would receive part of the earnings-related daily allowance for the low-paid agricultural sector, because I believe that employers would be able to agree and see how long laid-off they would be able to spend.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u74	Mr President! There has been a negative asylum decision raised here, which is currently impossible to return to more countries. However, I would ask the opposition to take note of the fact that many of them have the support of our employment authority that they should be granted a work permit, i.e. that they have a job and that they are in favour of a workforce. On the basis of last year’s statistics, one third of such persons who then applied for a work permit received a negative asylum decision, i.e. one third of those who applied for a work permit — that is a pretty large proportion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u77	Mr President! Here are the questions that were asked to be answered by the Assembly. Mr Myllykoski called for what had been the impressive performances of the assembly. Indeed, at the end of March, we specifically stated, as you also pointed out, that a laid-off person should be able to work for a month on agricultural, horticultural or berry farms in such a way that he would not lose this lay-off allowance completely. I believe that there are many people in this House who agree on it — the proposals are only expected. We also suggested that the unemployed person must be able to work full-time, regardless of the sector, so that only half of the earnings earned would be deducted from earnings-related support, or that foreign agricultural workers should be invited to come to Finland in accordance with the German model, or the income limits of the student allowance would be temporarily and so on. As I pointed out in my first speech, the Assembly is therefore disappointed that this proposal has been made without any impact assessments, hastily chosen a somewhat unclear path for its implementation. I will correct Mr Pitko that we did not oppose the removal of these qualifying points, 3 months and 6 months, because the majority of asylum seekers have not even come to Finland in the last 3 months, which means that they have already left. As the report says, some 4,000 asylum seekers already have labour rights, they are no longer in any kind of toughness, and in that sense, even in this proposal, the effectiveness of removing it will be very limited. However, we tabled an amendment to this particular point when the person submits a re-application. Let's think about this: In that situation, when the state sends the message that it is stated that there is no right to asylum and therefore there is no basis for protection, but that expulsion decision is not being implemented. After all, we have had about 75 removals in April, and in normal circumstances there are about 100 to 150, so even though there has been no public debate about them, there have still been removals. Therefore, even if exceptional circumstances are going on, the message should be that if there is no such basis for protection and no basis for residence permit, then that decision would be enforced.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u78	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski must be told from here that this is a good speech. You very well identified the welfare system in Finland and the very unfortunate hand-on measure in the working labour market, which is located between the majority of the group and the Green Left. This is exactly how it's going to be. I myself in the committee have also tried to stimulate a debate on whether or not all parties could agree — when people who are vulnerable are brought into the labour market, whose incentives, despite the abuses, are quite strong — what they are prepared to do. I understand that parties other than the Finns Party do not understand that this is a structural problem, which is maintained by the fact that there are workers and asylum seekers in the country who can be exploited. It will not be helped by increasing the resources of the Avi and Victim Support Office and other actors until the end, by minimum wage legislation and by any other means, unless this structural issue is corrected. To the previous speech, when I did not have the time to say everything, I would point out that this amendment of the law in itself is therefore undermining the asylum system or what remains of it, because it does not matter whether or not a person needs protection while still remaining in the country. I understand from this speech by the Greens, Mr Hopsu, that this really does not matter. If it has been established that man does not need international protection, then we can think that he will not seek refuge here. If he moves into the labour market, then it is a completely different matter, and by entering the labour market this person can subsequently apply for an employee's residence permit and then be part of this expanding market, where there are precisely these problems, which I referred to earlier. I am sure that the sharpest colleagues of the Centre Party here also understand this problem, understand that there is hardly any help coming to the farms and that this will make it difficult for the asylum system to function and undermine its legitimacy. They probably do not really imagine that in rural areas they want asylum seekers who are not even aware of their identity. The essential question is what Mrs Halla-aho has already said here when she wondered what the cow trade is that is behind it. How can blue eyes support all the red - green amendments to the foreign law and the government’s soon - to - extreme - trouble economy? Can the county sand really be worth all this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u79	Mr President! From Kouvola itself, when we came here: practically we have not even had much talk about asylum seekers. My election campaign or anything else has nothing to do with asylum, I have sought my own support from somewhere else, and that is not why I am upset and why I am warm, but just what was mentioned earlier: cooperation, trust in a situation like this when we should have a common crisis to deal with. And that's what's really bugging me right now, personally, about bringing stuff like this that really has nothing but an ideology behind it. I have to tell you from what Mr Norrback brought up about Närpiö's throat story, that really we could all go and see who works there. There are no Iraqi asylum seekers, there is absolutely no Iraqi asylum seekers. In fact, I have even visited it with a full truck when I took goods and got to know their place. Mr Hopsu said, when I threw that in an interlude, that ‘motivation is hard’, that ‘no,well,semotivation is good.’ And the situation is that when, in fact, according to our studies, these people are persons who do not need asylum, that is to say they are being put out of here because they do not need asylum, it is quite inconceivable that it is then said that it should be motivated. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u80	Mr President! There have been a number of debates here, and I personally think it is important that we should look after the seasonal work of agriculture and horticulture, and this is a small way in which we can make that choice of means. Korona has taught us the importance of security of supply and domestic food. For us to have clean Finnish food next winter too, hand pairs are needed — both Finnish hand pairs, retired, young, unemployed hand pairs and hand pairs from abroad. Of course, this is a small number of these hands, but even a small number can be decisive for a single farm or garden. I have been delighted that there are also reception centres in various parts of Finland where residents interact with the local population. Such a place is, for example, the reception centre of Pudasjärvi, which, unfortunately, is now under threat of closure. There is a network of friends and unprejudiced companies around the centre who want to work for people from other parts of the world. In that sense, too, it is a great place that hardly anyone is opposed to the existence of the centre. There may be a garden or farm near such a center that can be used for seasonal work, and this will enable good integration. Farmers and gardeners should not be left in the lurch either now or later. During the summer, there will be work that does not require so much education — hands, right attitude, and a learning mind. I believe that this measure is not a factor of attraction. It is good that people prefer to work rather than lie in reception centers. These are a few out of ten people who are needed on individual farms and gardens. For us downtown people, it is important that farmers receive help, and that is what I think this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u81	Mr President! This proposal is almost irrelevant for security of supply and farmers, but it is extremely detrimental to the credibility of the asylum system. The proposal, as has already been mentioned in the speeches, is absolutely ridiculous, and this was also the case with a country-economyer whose opinion I asked about this government proposal. I have wondered whether there would have been more man-years in seasonal work if officials who prepared this proposal and who worked at different stages had given up their own work on agricultural work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u84	Mr President! These structural problems: I would like the Finns of Finland to be active during this parliamentary term, demanding the right of action of the trade union movement. It is the security that can safeguard a person who is in a position of subordination and does not dare to go out and claim his own rights. The right of appeal of the trade union movement would be able to protect foreign workers from a bad station, but also a Finnish employee who, while doing temporary work or in some other precarious employment relationship, would not dare to defend himself. This would create an opportunity for fairer Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u85	Mr President! It is very important that Finnish lay-offs, unemployed people and people at risk of unemployment are also encouraged to do these seasonal jobs, and the Finns of Peru have been on the move for the first time. We have already argued on several occasions here that such an unemployed or laid-off person could work on a seasonal basis without losing social security. It could be such an incentive that work would also seem encouraging and significant and that extra work would then be desired. Mr President! One of the reasons for this government’s proposal is why it is reported that the work during the harvest is suitable for asylum seekers, and that ‘the nature of the work is becoming less professional and the opportunities for the use of asylum seekers in their work are increasing’. This phrase is strange in some way, and it must also be borne in mind that we have also received asylum seekers who are quite highly educated. But when the harvesting work according to this government’s proposal requires less professionalism, the opportunities for the use of Finnish young people in these jobs will also increase. It would be very important for Parliament to give such a signal, that we favour young people and give them jobs. It is truly unfortunate and sad to hear messages from young people but also from parents that summer work has been cancelled. And it is a great thing that young people are also going to these seasonal jobs and harvest jobs, but even more should be trusted in Finnish young people. They have potential, they have enthusiasm. And every certificate of employment you manage to get from a young age on the labour market is a valuable piece of paper. It can move forward in life, and it shows that activity. I really hope that Finnish farm entrepreneurs will also be active and work for and hire Finnish young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u86	Mr President! Just as many colleagues have said here, we need more hands to help farmers, and it would have taken a long time, but unfortunately the government is doing too little too late. After all, in the early part of the year, rural entrepreneurs made their cry because they saw a shortage of labour threatening spring sowings and, at their worst, even part of food production. Nearly 70% of producers would have needed information on the availability of seasonal labour already at the beginning of April in order not to jeopardise the production of the season. At that time, solutions were put forward to encourage the unemployed and laid-off to go to help farmers. However, extending the right to work to those who have received a negative decision is not the answer to this problem, because the availability of labour will not increase with this government proposal but with dozens of people and it will also involve risks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u87	Mr President! The Government proposes a green left-wing ideological change in the Aliens Act, which would extend the employment rights of asylum seekers in Finland. The period prior to the start of work for asylum seekers would be removed from those who have asylum cases before the authorities. It is also proposed to extend the extension of the right to work so that, despite the removal decision, the asylum seeker may continue to work as long as he is provided with reception services. Although these changes are presented as necessary under Finnish security of supply, in fact, it seeks to promote a loose immigration policy that is pleasing to the Red-Green Central Government. There is yet another step from the temporary law towards less permanent relaxation in the Finnish asylum system, which, as we have noted, has been used ruthlessly in recent times. If the asylum seeker has obtained a decision on the return, then the legitimate reasons will be the end, and then the priority must be to remove the person from the country, not to remain and to employ them. Mr President! It is also important to bear in mind that the situation of work-related immigration and asylum surfers is completely different, and that is why asylum seekers are, for a reason, subject to certain restrictions on working. In May, the Farmers' Lobby (MTK) estimated that the need for seasonal workers would still be around 10,000 employees for this summer. According to the Finnish Immigration Service, there are currently around a thousand asylum seekers who could be employed. All of these would hardly be suitable for the jobs now available. By reducing those to whom free maintenance and accommodation appear to be more attractive than working in a Finnish field, the need for 10,000 employees can be met by a few dozen at most. In fact, the MTK has tried to fill the quota with domestic workers, which would obviously be a sensible solution in this employment situation. For example, many students are missing out on a summer job when companies have drifted into layoffs or layoffs in this difficult economic situation. Instead of putting all its efforts into harvesting the Finnish crop and finding jobs for those looking for work, the Finnish Government wants to focus on ideological changes whose impact on employment and security of supply would only be nominal but whose impact on the asylum system will be devastating. We Finns do not accept that the Green Left government puts the resources of the civil service and parliament into the potential employment of a few dozen asylum seekers and turns its back on Finnish workers. We Finns are wondering how you, the Centre and the SDP, accept this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u88	Mr President! Indeed, I am surprised at the idea of the centre that the Ukrainians must first be brought here because the Finns are unable to do this field work, and that it is now proposed that an Iraqi who has received a negative asylum. Now there's a complete lack of logic in this job. There has been talk of whether this is a gravitational factor. This is certainly an attraction, because Finland is such an attractive country that last week a mother with children under 10 years of age walked a thousand kilometres in the desert to get here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u89	Mr President! Now for the answers to Mr. Pasi Kivisaari: In addition to defending Finland’s countryside, Finns defend Finnish workers and justice. Our aim is not only to bring people into useful agricultural work, but to get jobs for Finnish workers in particular, thereby contributing to domestic employment and the vitality of agriculture. It is clear that the asylum system is not intended as a means of obtaining cheap labour in the host country. The whole asylum system is based on the fact that those who need protection are entitled to protection and, in turn, migrants who come after a higher standard of living are converted. However, if the convert is employed here, the credibility of the whole system will be undermined. This pathetic quibble about getting a few ten asylum seekers to work is not a matter of a fixed-term project, because now there is a clear basis for this same proposal to be brought through later into permanent law, to create attraction factors for asylum seekers — as soon as the centre is ready to bow even a little more before the Greens. Why, as a government, do you make such changes to the law when, according to your own words, they do not have any effect on getting workers on farms? This is just as empty as it is, and yet you are prepared to waste the resources of both the government and Parliament's civil service and parliamentarians on this, while the time should now be spent on getting the unemployed and young Finns to work and at the same time ensuring that the work of the harvest season is completed and that domestic food is guaranteed. Why do you not use the resources of this massive decision-making machine to increase the income threshold for student student study aid rather than for asylum breaks so that they can work more? We have summer workers who expect to work more, but cannot, because they have a limit on how much money they can make before they lose their support. The handling of this law is actually a warning to the city center. How low are you prepared to sink, and how big a message must we send to the provinces?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u90	The vote will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session resumed at 3:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u91	We shall now proceed to the adjourned sitting at 3.52 p.m. and to the third item on the agenda. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u92	Mr President! I will make an objection to the proposal under paragraph 2 with amendments to the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u93	Mr President! I support Mrs Talvitie's sensible and well-founded proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u94	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u95	Mr President! In fact, it could be said that this is a continuation of these packages, which were voted on here just now, in other words to facilitate the temporary reception of work, in this case in such a way as to increase this element of protection of unemployment benefit. What is particularly important here is that it is also intended to take account of these entrepreneurs, who are able to make arrangements for daily allowances, who are also affected by this reform. In that referral debate I have already said that the need for this law demonstrates the need for us in Finland to embark on this social security reform in general. This is precisely where it is seen that when the percentage of protection is increased, there is an opportunity to increase the incentive for work, i.e. the incentive to accept work. In that sense, this reform of social security is, in fact, what I think should be particularly familiar with these components of protection and the like. But this law is also fixed-term and specifically intended to facilitate, for example, access to seasonal workers in the horticultural and agricultural sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u96	Mr President! However, while the labour market is troubled and unclear about the future, there is also a need for labour in many areas. The pressure is at least on part-time work, so that the benefits of hiring and receiving work are well justified. Job seekers and, for example, seasonal jobs need to be met. In particular, we now need domestic workers for seasonal work. There is a clear and understandable justification for this. The Korona virus has caused a domestic wave of unemployment and lay-off. In this case, all the work that is available is valuable. These proposals are a four-point government action programme aimed at alleviating the problem of the availability of seasonal workers that we are all aware of. The proposal responds to the need for support for full-time work if the job is located at a distance from the place where the unemployed person resides, as is often the case with seasonal agricultural work. This means that the mobility grant will be temporarily amended. The mobility allowance could therefore be temporarily paid for full-time work if the average duration of a person's day-to-day work journey exceeds two hours, instead of the current three hours. President! At the same time, financial opportunities for the unemployed to take part-time work or short-term work will be supported when full-time work is not necessarily available. I think that a good way to do this is to increase the protection component of unemployment benefit, that is to say, the share of the earnings that is not taken into account in the payment of unemployment benefit. The protection component of unemployment benefit would therefore be temporarily increased from the current EUR 300 per month to EUR 500 per month. President! The purpose of the draft law is therefore to temporarily increase incentives for employment in order to ensure security of supply in exceptional circumstances in areas critical to the agricultural and forestry sector, but also to support more broadly the reception of work and the financial situation of beneficiaries in the event of an epidemic of interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u97	Mr President! Because of the corona epidemic, we live in times where many Finns have been unemployed or laid off for a variety of reasons. Over the last few months, the government has put forward a number of important ways to secure people's livelihoods in these difficult times, and I would like to thank the government in particular for that. Many actions have been timely and supported people to overcome these difficult times. Mr President! This proposal proposes a temporary increase in the protection component of unemployment benefit from the current EUR 300 per month to EUR 500 per month. These changes will financially support the reception of part-time work and short-term work. The change will be of great benefit to both jobseekers and those who are in labour shortages, regardless of the sector. In addition, mobility assistance between the workplace and home is now easier to obtain. According to the proposal, the allowance is granted when two hours are spent on a daily business trip or if the employee moves at an equivalent distance due to work. This proposal is excellent because, in particular, it can soften the take-up of work, its financial impact, if the person temporarily moves to live close to the job but retains his or her actual dwelling. Mr President! It should be stressed that this is a temporary amendment to the Unemployment Security Act. I agree that the impact of the draft law on the labour market should be closely monitored, as the committee also requires. It is understandable that rapid progress has been made in the preparation of this proposal and therefore not all the effects have been sufficiently assessed in advance. For this reason, I would like to say that it is regrettable that this timetable has not brought about similar changes in housing and income support, which is why some of the benefits of the proposal will fall away. For this reason, I would like to see these taken into account, at least in the case of supplementary income support provided by municipalities, and I would like to see if the Ministry could possibly put the relevant guidance into the municipalities. In addition, the importance of housing allowance and income support should be taken into account when assessing the impact and consequences of the bill. In promoting employment, we need to pay more attention to young people. Their position in the labour market is weaker than others, and as a result of the epidemic, the position will only deteriorate, for example, in summer jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u98	Mr President! The present proposal relates to ensuring the availability of seasonal labour in agricultural and horticultural farms and to encouraging domestic labour. The purpose of the bill is to temporarily increase incentives for employment in order to improve security of supply in exceptional circumstances, but also more generally to provide temporary support for the reception of work and the financial situation of beneficiaries in the event of a corona epidemic. The proposal proposes that the mobility allowance may be temporarily paid for full-time work if the average duration of a person's daily work-related journey at the start of the work exceeds two hours instead of the current three-hour period or if the person changes from the corresponding distance due to work. The change would not concern work-related training. There is no change to the mobility allowance for part-time work. At the same time, financial opportunities for the unemployed to take part-time work or short-term work or to return to work in part in a situation where full-time work may not yet be available will be supported. The method is to temporarily increase the protection component of the reconciliation of unemployment benefit, i.e. the proportion of earnings not taken into account in the payment of the adjusted unemployment benefit. The unemployment benefit component would be temporarily increased from the current EUR 300 per month to EUR 500 per month and from EUR 279 to EUR 465 over four calendar weeks. Mr President! The situation in the labour market is twofold in terms of supporting employment. In order to ensure security of supply, we need workers, and this work can be full-time or part-time. The key issue for the domestic labour force is the recruitment of jobseekers for job vacancies and the criteria and solutions for hiring employers. However, job seekers and seasonal jobs are not located in the same region. On the other hand, the lay-offs and unemployment resulting from large-scale restrictive measures do not necessarily end in returning to immediate full-time work, but employers' ability to provide work may lead to partiality of work. Let us hope that the incentives put forward will contribute to a positive impact on the labour shortage in agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u99	Mr President! The proposal proposes to temporarily increase the unemployment benefit component from the current EUR 300 per month to EUR 500 per month and from EUR 279 to EUR 465 over four calendar weeks. These changes will financially support the reception of part-time work and short-term work, not only in the seasonal work of agricultural and horticultural holdings but also in other work. Mr President! In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, where this proposal was discussed, the report also took a position on the issue of young people and young people's summer jobs. The Committee also considered it important that the effects of the corona virus epidemic on the adequacy and situation of young people's summer jobs should be closely monitored, and this is particularly noteworthy. The expert reports showed that this proposed support model does not make it easier for young people to find summer jobs and that a fixed-term tool would be needed to recruit young people and students. This could be achieved through the temporary introduction of pay subsidies for young people and students as well as for demobilising military personnel, which was also highlighted in expert reports. This youth pay subsidy would not have a prior unemployment requirement and would be targeted at the worker. This would be a good suggestion for the government: to introduce this model which would promote the employment of young people. Mr President! The Finns have strongly supported the employment of young people. Years ago, at the Espoo Council, we made a proposal to lower the age limit for young people’s summer voucher so that more and more young people would have access to it. Each of us can contribute to young people getting summer jobs. For example, I myself am hiring young people for painting and domestic work during the summer, and I would suggest to the government how it would be possible for an increasing number of households to be able to hire young people. For example, Espoo will pay EUR 300 for a summer voucher if the company hires a young person. Well, if the household pays, then, of course, the household will not be able to use or reduce this summer voucher because there is no Business ID. How would it be possible for households to hire young people for summer jobs, for example, with this summer voucher? This would be an urgent matter to pass through, and at this very time, when more and more young people have a door closed in front of their noses and there is no work to do. This is also very easy for the household: 10 working days, 50 hours, the salary of the summer voucher — the EUR 350, which is the minimum wage — and the household only reports to the Incomes Register that a young person has been hired. Easy and convenient and profitable, encouraging young people, and I also recommend to others to introduce this model, which I myself will take this summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u100	Mr President! A few comments on this report, which was discussed by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health last week and which is the basis here. I said in the recent debate, which took a couple of hours, that this issue is likely to have more of a labour supply effect than the one we have just discussed, and that will certainly be seen. My second point is that colleagues from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have referred well to the content of this law, so I will not spend any time on it. After all, there are now three different ways in which we try to reconcile social security temporarily with work pay. As Mr Essayah said, this is of course a minor interference with the major issues that we are now facing in Finnish welfare policy. Perhaps that is why it is very important that the effects of this too can be monitored. When we first discussed this in committee and consulted an expert, including the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, I asked whether this could have any negative effects on the labour market. It occurred to me whether this could lead to some employers trying to exploit this in a negative sense in such a way that very little work is offered on a very small salary with the idea that, when you can still receive unemployment benefit with one hand as it were, then you will be satisfied with the very little merit that you can earn — the EUR 500 a month — without affecting unemployment benefit. Well, the expert at Maisonlahti STM assured me that this may be an unwarranted fear. However, even in this sense, monitoring would be very important, because although the starting point here is, of course, extremely positive, it occurred to me whether there could also be unpredictable side effects with this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u101	Mr President! The previous item discussed the admission of illegal asylum seekers to work on farms. I've already given you quite a lot of criticism about that ideological twist. These are now the proposals that I too would like to see here, and that is what I am in favour of. These are the ones that really seek a solution to our problem on farms, for example. Of course, it must be said that Mrs Juvonen has just put forward an extremely good proposal for the employment of young people. That would be a very good thing for this, even if it is not directly part of this. But I really want to tell you now that I support the government in this very good proposal. Bring more of these performances, and we too will remain a little quieter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u102	Mr President! After all, this bill seeks to compensate for the problems caused by the interest rate, above all here on the agricultural side. There has been a similar issue in some context, i.e. maintaining this unemployment benefit, even if you are employed for a few months, i.e. you would sort of like this carrot in that when I go to work, so I also retain unemployment benefit. And here's a little bit of the same idea, or pretty far. Here we are going to increase this benefit from EUR 300 to EUR 500, and I think this is a very good carrot, so that we can also earn this much, so that we will not lose our unemployment benefit. On the other hand, this mobility allowance has also been taken into account, and it also has a positive impact on this potential employment. All in all, as the previous ones were discussing this, in the agricultural and horticultural sectors, and also in relation to these forest berries, which have a positive impact on human health, we also need a foreign workforce in addition to Finnish workers. Of course, it is important, first and foremost, that we employ the Finnish workers, and the young people have been mentioned here, and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has also discussed why young people should not take this up and go there for experience in agriculture. There are such works that you can do very conveniently, and in this way they would also gain experience in work. All in all, a welcome proposal, and it is hoped that the effects of this will now be effective and will be able to secure our security of supply for agricultural and horticultural farms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u103	Mr President! This increase in the protection component of unemployment benefit, as has been said here in the speeches, is a quick response from the government to this critical situation, and we could, above all, get seasonal workers into agriculture, and it could also be a means of employment for young people. There are a number of ways to think about this: now that this is so much raised here, how much of this would have to do with a system that might even be permanent. At least there is a point in that, as is the case with many of the openings that we have made in this time of the corona crisis — new forms of social activity and new types of rules of play — that there is certainly learning from them. This is a useful idea that we take a closer look at how the systems work. At least, as I remember, Mr Lindén, and many others, has pointed out that very close monitoring should now be done in terms of how such a system works, because then, when it comes to the issue of permanent legislation, it may actually be useful. At this point, of course, this increase in the percentage of protection seems attractive as a permanent system insofar as it enables part-time work to be involved, it enables us, as has been said, to obtain a low income and a slightly higher income without losing unemployment benefit, but the greater the benefit, it will come closer to the idea which has now been here for years now, when we are talking about a citizen's salary or a basic income, which I think, Mr President, might also be worth studying, whether we can afford to simplify these support schemes and build such a kind of basic income for all Finns, and in that sense it would be activating and not passive, as many people say. There is no final view of this yet, neither do I, but at least at this point there is an interesting company when lifting this protective section gives us this kind of laboratory situation. I would hope that this will be followed closely.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u104	Mr President! Indeed, as Mr Laakso said there: bring more such proposals, good government. These are very constructive, and they are also easy to support. Mr President! It is a good thing that this government proposal in particular supports the fact that it is also possible to accept work other than this seasonal farm and horticultural work. As a nurse, I see it as very important because a person can also apply to a care sector, for example, where there is a crying shortage of workers. Once again, we have a long hot summer ahead of us, where there is a lack of employees, a lack of local nurses, a lack of nurses. It would be a great thing if this government proposal also responded to this cry. Mr President! I would also like to thank you for your thanks. I remember when our chairman, Jussi Halla-aho, said here in the debate that the Finns of Peru set the example that a person who is laid off or unemployed could work without losing his social security benefit, and Prime Minister Marin thanked him for the motion and said that ‘this is what we are doing and we are listening to’. We feel that our ideas have indeed been heard, because this government proposal is similar, that is to say to make it easier and to help that person to get a job there, and then the protective part is raised from the current EUR 300 to EUR 500. This is precisely the best policy we can do together and constructively, and it is good that opposition proposals are also being heard. In particular, now that our report also mentions these young people and the monitoring of their work situation during this corona crisis, I would like to see the government really following with an accurate ear and an eye what the employment situation of young people is this summer and how it will affect their economic situation. Even the small money is very important to these young people, and even the small money is ready to go to work. Indeed, if the household could employ, for example, the value of the summer voucher and then be able to reduce and exploit it later, it would be a great hand-out for households and also for young people, for society as a whole. That's where we'd all catch together and support the kids. We certainly have households in Finland that have not been hit so hard by the corona crisis, and they could hire a young person from that neighbour to work in the summer. This is such a heart issue now, and I feel that more and more of us could do this. At least this is what I do, and I think it is important for that young person: he gets a certificate of employment, and it is like money to him when he is able to tell me that he has been working.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u105	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u106	Mr President! It is a unanimous report from the committee on the improvement of the administrative structure and organisation of Keva, could you say, transparency and functionality, and in fact the only thing that has actually been changed here is the selection of the auditor, which states that for a maximum of six financial years at a time the Ministry of Finance will appoint an auditor to audit the accounts and the administration of Keva. Mr President! Indeed, a unanimous administrative reform, and I remember from that referral debate that this had to do with the fact that, when the war laws fell last spring before the elections, this section would not have been put into effect. However, it is necessary to put it into effect, and that is why this has been brought here to the Chamber, even if one might wonder whether this is actually corona legislation. But this is the laws that have fallen with the legislation on social services, which, however, deserve to be put into effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u107	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is in this debate and the aim of the proposal is to change the governance structure of Keva better to reflect the changed operating environment. According to the proposal, Keva's mandate would be supervisory, but it will also decide, among other things, on the contributions of the member communities, confirm the financial statements, grant discharge to those responsible and approve the Keva budget. The role of the Board of Directors will be strengthened in relation to the delegates, and the Board of Directors would have general competence to deal with Keva's affairs. It is the responsibility of the Audit and Risk Management Committee from among the Board of Directors to monitor the adequacy and adequacy of financial reporting, internal control, internal audit and risk management. The risk assessment to be carried out as part of risk management shall be regularly prepared and updated in the event of material changes in risk. The separate Audit and Risk Management Committee supports the effective implementation of the new regulation. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it justified to modernise the organisation structures in Keva and to clarify the roles of the various levels of management. The proposal was adopted unanimously. This is indeed an administrative change and, in that way, did not cause any long-term discussion in the committee, but went smoothly and well in cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u108	Mr President! This is where colleagues have well described the content of this law, so I am not taking the time to do so. Nor is it the intention to launch a major pension policy debate here, but I would like to say that, for a long time, as Chairman of the Keva Working Group on Labour Development, this is the very view that the pension insurance company is looking at the work, the working life in which they come to be pensioners and, at the moment, the people who pay their pensions, is a very important point of view. Keva is currently responsible for the future pension provision of more than 400,000 municipal workers currently working and, of course, for hundreds of thousands of people who receive pensions, but also for the pension provision of the state and the church. This view of the future of Finnish social security and of continuing to work and motivated work there is very important that we develop working life in such a way that people's working lives are longer and that we can keep this social security system in balance. Indeed, this proposal, as mentioned above, deals only with this administrative structure of Keva, but it also has links to this wider entity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u109	Mr President! When we talk about Keva and about the change in the administrative structure of Keva, one major question is that there is a desire to gradually create a part of Keva in the employment pension scheme, once it has so far been functioning on the public side, and that is the way in which the amount of funding that is being made within the framework of Keva has its limits. It represents approximately 25 per cent of the pension liability that is calculated to exist. If Keva is included in the earnings-related pension scheme as a new part of it or is merged with employment pension companies, this way of moving the management of pension liabilities more and more to these private companies is a strange situation because there are simply no other countries in the world where statutory occupational pension provision is managed through private companies. In this respect, if a real change is made — and now I am not going to talk any further about it, I will just say this — that is, there would be one public pension company with one side of the private sector and another operating in the public sector, then two would be sufficient, whereas, as the Financial Supervisory Authority has said on several occasions, this is an expensive system in Finland, that we have five large and twenty small pension funds and an employment pension company. It is an administratively expensive system because it carries out statutory tasks. There is no genuine competition with regard to the task itself. This restructuring of Keva in this respect is a worrying direction, if it does not lead to us bringing everyone together at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u110	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u111	Mr President! With regard to this bill, it could be said that this is actually today's third bill, which is aimed specifically at helping people on the agricultural and horticultural side now get into seasonal work, and here we are now turning to those who are in the form of abandonment aid, and the income limits for the abandonment aid are now being increased in order to be able to work in the agricultural and horticultural sectors if necessary. I think I said in the referral debate that many times, when we talk about key people in different sectors, we are the first to have in mind IT managers and similar experts, but it is equally true that this is a question of key people in the agricultural sector, in the horticultural sector, who are already in the process of giving up aid, but in this situation are ready to help, and that is why it is important that we then help to ensure that this waiver does not become an obstacle to the reception of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-02-ps-84.u112	Mr President! Just as Mr Essayah said earlier, this is intended to make it easier for farmers to have access to employment because of the interest rate. Indeed, when there is such a thing that is entitled to a waiver, then his secular work is in a certain way limited, and now this is aimed at the fact that he does not lose the right that there is the possibility of also doing agricultural work. There are certainly people here who may even have training in the field of medical and health care, and they can also be employed there. In a certain way, security of supply and, of course, the management situation of the epidemic will be affected. Very welcome, and this was unanimously approved by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. - Thank you.
