ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 9/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulations can remain in force or whether they must be partially or completely repealed. I'm opening a conversation. Here you go, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u2	Mr President! The Constitutional Committee has produced a report on three regulations on the extension of the powers of the Emergency Act. The committee dealt with the issues together and adopted a joint report on them. The committee proposes that the regulations on the extension of powers should remain in force. The legal basis for dealing with these regulations is Article 8 of the Emergency Act. In the event of further exceptional circumstances, Article 8 of the Emergency Act provides for the extension of the provisions of Part Two of the Act. Such a extension regulation may be adopted for a maximum period of six months at a time. The extension regulation must be referred to Parliament immediately. Parliament decides whether the regulation should remain in force or whether it should be partially or completely repealed. The powers that are now to be extended include all the powers that have been introduced by the Emergency Act, except for the restrictions on movement in the Uusimaa. The Retention Regulations therefore concern the following powers of the Emergency Act: directing social and health care intervention units; restricting the sale of medicines, goods and services used in health care; empowering the municipality to waive compliance with the time limits for urgent care; assessing the need for social care services; organising day care and early childhood education; and the tasks of health protection; derogating from the conditions of employment in health care and social services and rescue services, emergency centres and police services; prolonging the protection of the dismissal of personnel in health care; imposing an obligation to work on health care staff; suspending and restricting education and training. The use of powers would continue with these regulations on 13 May. up until the end According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there are very strong grounds for continuing to exercise the powers of the Emergency Act from the point of view of the fundamental rights system. Furthermore, the committee did not consider powers to be contrary to the requirement of proportionality in the current situation. However, the committee's report draws attention to the fact that each competence and its material, material and temporal scope should be assessed in the explanatory notes to the regulations and justified on their necessity. In addition, the committee drew more attention to the need to assess from the point of view of fundamental rights the overall harm to society caused by restrictive measures in relation to their benefits in the future. The committee stresses the priority given to the legislation on normal conditions and to the competences which are as little lacking in fundamental rights as possible. The committee pays particular attention to the powers of the Act on communicable diseases provided for by the Constitutional Committee. The Committee feels that the government must pay serious attention to the fact that in future the Government should assess the alternative nature of the various measures in the explanatory notes to the regulations. The various options for applying the Emergency Response Act must also be more detailed in the explanatory memorandum. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also stresses that Article 4 of the Act allows the powers of the Emergency Act to be exercised only in such ways as are necessary to achieve the purpose of the law and in proportion to the objective pursued for the exercise of the power to act. These principles limit both the introduction of powers and their use in exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u3	Thank you, and then to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u4	Mr President! Finland is for the first time in such exceptional circumstances after the war, and this preparedness law is now being applied for the first time, when special flexibility and ability to cooperate have been called for in the search for the best ways to safeguard fundamental rights in these circumstances. In my view, this is now reflected in the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We have noticed that the information and memos from the Government are even more accurate. When we have given feedback and made comments, they have been taken into account very quickly and flexibly, so that now that there is an increased need, for example, to take account of the situation in different regions and also to anticipate different regions, all this need for information has been met with great flexibility. And it is precisely open information that is essential for both the work of the committee and the work of Parliament, when together, however, this country is meant to lead in a crisis and information is a key tool in it. It is precisely this anticipation that is being strongly emphasised, and it is a feature that may not always be fully taken into account in all aspects of our legislation on exceptional circumstances. We still have some points that have perhaps been thought of through a military crisis or, for example, through a nuclear disaster, and now, under the circumstances of the pandemic, we really need to consider how these articles will apply to this situation. And it is precisely this anticipation that will become absolutely central there. In order to stop the pandemic spreading, one must be able to look at at least a week and preferably months away. That is why, in this situation, the question of how to get rid of this crisis is beginning to be highlighted. When we arrive at Section 4 of the Emergency Act the need for proportionality and necessity for action restricting fundamental rights, which On the other hand, we cannot go too far and too quickly, because there is a risk that the disease will suddenly spread. On the other hand, we cannot overly prolong the restrictions on the whole country and all sectors of activity, because then there is the risk that the significant disadvantages caused by these exceptional circumstances will be in place for the sake of nothing and certainty. The committee has pointed out that, although it is necessary to anticipate, we should not act in the interests of certainty, but should strike the right balance in terms of the level of action required and the level of anticipation required. It is important to draw attention now to the fact that these exceptional circumstances have had disadvantages. And even today, when the issue was discussed, it was recognised that efforts must also be made to identify these disadvantages so that we can always reach the best solution for its fundamental rights. We know that for many families, on the one hand, and for the elderly living alone, on the other, this situation is indeed a burden. We know that closing schools makes everyday life particularly difficult for children and young people. We know that we are already seeing an increase in domestic violence in the light of police statistics. And the pressure is growing as we live in this state of emergency. And that is why it is really essential to keep an eye on the situation, to try to ease the anxiety and increased need for service of people, as we can best do, and then constantly to consider how and at what stage we can make these restrictions easier. This requires constant close monitoring, to which the report has also drawn attention today and to which the Council of State has also drawn attention, so that we will then have a vibrant and fundamental society, even after this crisis. But I believe that the work so far has been quite flexible and cooperative. It has been at the centre of the guarantee of Finnish services and fundamental rights, and above all of health and safety. And if we continue to do so, then our welfare state will do this with honor. But it really requires stretching from all of us, from ordinary Finns as well as from authorities across the country. And, of course, this has to be recognized all the time. It cannot be argued that this would be easy, but these measures are necessary, and that is why we must now be able to pull this country through this crisis together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u5	Mr President! The Government has adopted three regulations extending the powers provided for in the Emergency Act. These regulations will continue to have a wide range of powers: restrictions on the sale of medicines, goods and services, the abolition of the time limits for urgent care and the assessment of the need for social services, the derogation from the conditions of employment, the extension of the period of notice and so on. This is a very wide-ranging whole. However, the authorities can only exercise powers which are necessary and proportionate to achieve the purpose. They must protect the population, safeguard its livelihood and the economy of the country, maintain the legal order, fundamental rights and human rights. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that, in future, we must assess the health effects and benefits of measures to limit exceptional circumstances, but also the overall harm to society from the point of view of fundamental rights. We will continue these restrictive measures to keep our health care functioning during the pandemic so that everything can be treated. This will safeguard every right to life, provide everyone with adequate health services and contribute to the health of the population. According to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, the epidemic is spreading rapidly. In a very short period of time, a significant number of cases may occur in any municipality of Finland. A local epidemic may manifest itself as a cluster. There may be dozens or hundreds of new cases in a few days. Since an asymptomatic person can also infect, the corona can spread before it is properly traced. The number of cases will not reach a peak during the period of validity of the current regulations. On the basis of these considerations, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that further powers are necessary and in the right direction. It should be borne in mind that further powers are also granted for a limited period of time. The authorities must also monitor and continuously assess the possibilities to remove and limit these exceptions and limitations to our fundamental rights. Restrictive measures must always be necessary and should be dismantled as soon as possible. We must also move forward from the crisis. It should be borne in mind that the powers of the Emergency Response Act should not be introduced on a light basis or, as it were, in the interests of certainty. However, when the municipality still has the opportunity to abandon its assessment of the need for social services, the urgent assessment of the need remains and remains. It is important that the worsening situation of families is taken into account in the municipalities. Problems under the surface may surface in abnormal conditions. The increasing use of alcohol, mental health problems, domestic violence and fatigue make life difficult for children. Not all children are safe in their own home. It is recalled that the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities are also in force under exceptional circumstances. The main services provided by municipalities must also be maintained under difficult conditions. This requires clear guidance from the authorities and support from municipalities. Mr President! Keep everyone involved, take special care of children and disabled people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u6	Mr President! The chairman of the committee and the previous speakers have already outlined the main reasons for this report. It is important that the Board of Directors brought these extension decrees into Parliament's deliberations in good time. Now we have a month and a half in clear terms that what standards apply. The future extension period after mid-May will probably be the case if more serious consideration is given to what changes might be made to these, depending on the evolution of the epidemic. Now, however, all the facts that are known seem to lead to the fact that the peak of the epidemic will only be there around mid-May, perhaps a little later, and with great certainty these will continue from that 13 May onwards, but that repertoire may be somewhat different. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that these content of the extension regulations can and must be changed if the situation so requires, and that these times can also differ from one another, that not everyone is as far in force as they are. It can also be considered regionally whether the whole of Finland should be treated in the same way. There was already reference to necessity and proportionality. They also apply to the applicable administration, i.e. the state administration, the municipalities, in the very practical work they do, must consider that these exceptional powers are exercised in such a way that they are proportionate and effective and necessary. This criterion of necessity, perhaps in public debate, has received a little too steep a content. There some legal scholars have criticised the fact that it is not necessary to take all the measures that have now been adopted by Parliament. It may correct that thinking a little bit or perhaps think that necessity means, at the same time, that we have to act as late as possible and only in the last minute. This is not the case; it is the idea of the Emergency Act that we should be prepared to act in time to prevent the negative consequences of the pandemic, the extremes of deaths and long, serious periods of illness. Effectiveness and effectiveness are also an important criterion for considering them to be those which limit their damage to society. In a way, all three factors need to be weighed at the same time, and not go out in a simple way, as it were, to do something as extreme as this necessity. This report will also make a good contribution in two ways to its practical application: to limit the negative effects; and, on the other hand, when we consider further work and what powers are needed after mid-May, there will also be a discussion of what kind of evidence and experience will be used to make the decision in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u7	Mr President! According to the feedback from the field, distance education has started very differently, however, in the big picture surprisingly well. However, it is really challenging from the point of view of both the workload of teachers and the individual pupils and parents. Now all parties must be patient so that we do not burn out the teachers. It is really challenging when teachers work twice as hard and still in places a layover troll hangs on the back of the neck. I hope that the decision-makers will now be able to tell us that the teachers are keeping society spinning and that at least there is no room for lay-off speeches in the municipalities. Of course, there is also a need for state aid for this. Resources have also been pledged for post-exempt support. They would need to be translated into concrete form in the spending limits debate so that they can be prepared in advance. For example, special teachers cannot be recruited overnight. Many people in remote work and schools have noticed how current online connections, especially mobile broadband, are inadequate and unreliable. In the case of remote meetings, you often have to disable the video so as not to block the lane, and not even the sound moves from one person to another without problems. The functionality of the connection may even vary within the same building, not to mention the blind spots in densely populated residential areas in cities. This, if anything, would raise a debate on the need for fixed broadband connections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u8	Mr President! The truly exceptional pandemic situation continues worldwide, and it is clear that the exceptional conditions in Finland are still in place, and it is therefore justified to continue with these powers provided by the Emergency Act. This is where the Constitutional Committee has done a good job, and I have been a little surprised that the intellectual speeches made in public have been used, that, as if Parliament's decision-making had somehow slowed down this process, that some of the necessary measures should be taken to limit the pandemic in Finland and that necessary measures should be taken in the event of an epidemic. I do think this is wrong, because the articles of the Emergency Act are immediately available to the Government. They may be introduced as a matter of urgency and powers shall be available when exceptional circumstances have been established. Parliament, and the Constitutional Committee here, will certainly then be able to ex-post check that necessity and proportionality will then be realised in what tools the Government has made available in relation to the Emergency Act. Personally, I would have seen that even in certain measures, such as this isolation of the Uusimaa region, the Government could have acted more quickly and, as it were, on the urgency principle, but what has been done has been done and the fallen milk should not cry. It has also been fair to me that the government has acknowledged that, for example, As far as Helsinki Airport was concerned, there was a clear mistake when people were allowed into the country who were at quite obvious risk of importing the virus without being quarantined. So here the government has raised its hand as a sign of error, and this is certainly a lesson to be learned. On the other hand, it is certainly necessary to clarify, for example, the Act on communicable diseases, if the legislation has not found sufficient grounds for more robust action at, for example, Helsinki Airport or, for example, faster closures of restaurants, which are quite obvious targets, especially nightclub-type restaurants where the spread of the virus could have happened to date, and this has been the case since new legislation was introduced. Mr President! I would like to thank Mrs Ojala-Niemela, as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for the good work she has done here as legislator, but also for the very clear, knowledgeable, peaceful and well-informed public awareness of the situation in public. He has done a very good job, and his actions have certainly strengthened confidence in the decision-making process and the nation in this way has brought about this common and difficult issue that we are now facing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u9	Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has once again worked closely with a very rapid timetable to review the extension of the powers of the regulations implementing the Emergency Act. I too would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Ojala-Niemela, the members of the committee and the committee advisers for this work until now, and that work will certainly continue. The committee has considered that the extension of powers fulfils the requirements of the Emergency Response Act in terms of necessity and proportionality. It is good to note, however, that the committee has made a number of critical comments on the extension of powers. This shows that although there is a very broad political consensus in this House that the powers of the Emergency Act can be exercised if necessary, the Constitutional Committee will stick to the legal assessment, look after the law and fundamental rights, and this is the case in a situation where the government and the authorities are given extraordinary powers. I would like to raise a few points about this report. Firstly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that it emphasises the primacy of the legislation of normal conditions and the competences which are as limited as possible to fundamental rights. The committee pays particular attention to the powers of the Act on communicable diseases provided for by the Constitutional Committee. After all, the powers of the Act on communicable diseases have been laid down in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted, and I would like to highlight one concrete example here. According to the work of the Act on Disease Control, quarantine would be used in the case of a very rare infectious disease, such as the pandemic threat of influenza. Furthermore, the work of the law has made it clear explicitly that, for example, in the course of long air transport, there may be a legitimate suspicion that a passenger is suffering from a flu virus that is a threat to the pandemic, and the presentations indicate that the assessment of the situation carried out by the health authorities puts all or some of the passengers on board the aircraft at risk and also places them in quarantine. In other words, we already have a very wide range of powers which can be exercised by the authorities under the law that is in force, even with the help of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which respects fundamental rights. Secondly, the committee has stated that it believes that the government must pay serious attention to the fact that in future the Government will assess the alternative nature of the various measures in the explanatory memorandum. And exceptional circumstances, especially in the fight against a new and serious disease, are not a time for one truth, but different, alternative paths need to be assessed, and that is part of the good drafting of the law at all. Thirdly, it should also be stressed that the requirement of necessity and proportionality in the exercise of the competences of the Emergency Response Act also apply to the exercise of powers in that specific situation. It is possible to apply these powers, they can be used, as stated in the regulation. In this regard, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has therefore drawn attention, among other things, to the right of the municipality to waive the time limits for urgent care, and it has now become the case that some municipalities have started to drive down such urgent care, for example, even though the disease situation in the region or municipality does not necessarily require this. In a certain way, I understand this situation in the municipalities, although there has been some confusion in the field and, in a certain way, alone, and the committee too stresses the importance of this adequate guidance for the administration. In my day, when these powers were first introduced in this Chamber, I raised this point to Minister Kiuru that municipalities and that field must not be left alone here, but that clear and up-to-date guidance is very important in order to avoid such unnecessarily far-reaching measures and, for example, to maintain basic health care for as long as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u10	Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done a good and careful job, and once again unanimously, as in such a situation it is certainly desirable to continue to introduce the powers of the Emergency Act. Of course, I would always like to hear that debate, but it is understandable that this debate cannot be referred to here. It would have been of particular interest to know how experts comment on this issue raised by Mr Vestman, namely, when the work of the Act on communicable diseases justifies how this Act would apply, for example, in the event of a pandemic threat to quarantine an entire aircraft. It is not directly related to these regulations in itself, but it is necessary to activate the articles of the Emergency Act, and whenever there is an alternative to using ordinary, as it were, ordinary legislation, this should be done. That is how I understand the introduction of this emergency law, and always that so-called normal legislation is a priority. When you read them in the articles of the Act on Contagious Diseases in itself, there is always reference to the fact that these quarantine decisions should be related to a person, and the presentations then again mention that it really could be interpreted in this way that when such a person may be infected or very likely the infected person might have been exposed to the whole machine, so could be found the basis for even making those decisions more extensive. However, this has been interpreted to a very large extent now in all municipalities and then also by the state and the hospital districts so that in the case of such whole aircraft, no direct quarantine decisions can be made. Unfortunately, these questions will probably not be answered here today, but this is very important in the sense that, while this situation is still going on — and I am afraid this will not be the last pandemic we have experienced, although I would, of course, like to do so — then I should like to ask whether there is something more specific there, for example in the articles of the law, so that those acts and articles of the law cannot at least cause a situation that is interpreted differently or interpreted as they may not be intended. It is really great to see that Parliament has flexibility and the ability to make decisions even on a very fast schedule. It was certainly not as challenging to deal with these implementing regulations as it was at the time when it was adopted for the first time. Of course, it remains to be seen whether this will be the last time, or whether there will still be a need for these regulations to be extended from now on. Now that we know of the estimates and the explanatory memorandum, it is clear that the peak of the epidemic is not yet estimated to be behind it, and it is not necessarily at the time when these new regulations expire, it may unfortunately be that we will have to be here once again in a situation where the continuation of these regulations will be assessed. In fact, here I say that now that we have this experience of using the Emergency Act, which we have here in Parliament for the first time since the current Emergency Act has been in force, it is probably good to learn from this in the sense that what can be done here at the end of Parliament, if this kind of pandemic would have caught us even worse, and how can Parliament be sure that our decision-making capacity will remain. After all, we have now been fortunate — not one of the representatives has yet, as far as I know, been infected or, as far as we are aware, exposed to the risk of being unable to carry out their duties. However, this is a very important issue, with this pandemic in progress and then with the prospect of the future, that in all the possible situations that we can face, Parliament will always be able to make decisions and take them forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u11	Mr President! Indeed, this present law of preparedness has never been used before and must be used with careful consideration. There would have been massive restrictions in the government's toolbox on the basis of the Act on communicable diseases, as has been said, but together there has been a view that there are grounds for introducing this powers of the Emergency Act, and now that the situation is still under way and this peak of disease is still ahead, there must also be equal criteria for their continuation. In exceptional, serious situations, it is particularly important to ensure that the rule of law functions correctly and must be taken care of in every way. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has a very central role to play here, and it has shown the importance of its tasks in this exceptional process, as it has done in the past, and I too would like to express my thanks to the chairman, who has not only done a good job in the committee but has also shown in public a fine, clear-cut communication which has opened up these difficult and new situations for many of us. In exceptional circumstances, Parliament has the possibility of restricting fundamental human rights and human rights, but only when it is absolutely necessary to achieve some objective, in this case in order to safeguard human health and safety. When it comes to restricting people's fundamental rights and human rights, the great political lines are no longer sufficient, but the detailed formulations and choices are of great importance. That is why there must be even more specific legislation in this work, and this poses a particular challenge to its diligence under such time pressure. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has succeeded in this and has rightly criticised the government for its drafting of the law, its procedures and also these legal issues which have been raised both last week and this week. An important point from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is this availability of sufficient information. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stressed this importance of information, and it concerns the Constitution, particularly in the case of such legislation, but also in the wider context of Parliament. We must have sufficient information at our disposal, all the information relevant to the handling of the matter, without having to ask for it separately. The good and important point made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which Mr Vestman has also raised here, is this last comment which the committee has raised, namely the emphasis on adequate and clear administrative guidance, which is as clear as possible. When the situation is new, rare, exceptional and is now being tackled for the first time through this preparedness law, then in particular these instructions must be clear and as precise as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u12	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the valuable work that has also been done on the continuation of these powers under the Emergency Act. Your work here is a very important part of the process, as Mr Autto has mentioned. I would like to raise two points in this report. The first is that the use of the powers and the possibilities for derogations of the Emergency Act is assessed as still having a strong basis in the memorandums. We must also rely on this assessment. The second point is that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs draws attention to the fact that the statement of reasons does not give sufficient consideration to each competence and its substantive, material and temporal scope. In addition, the Committee draws more general attention to the need to assess from the perspective of fundamental rights the overall harm to society caused by restrictive measures in relation to their benefits. This is a very important point. It is not in any way easy to make that assessment, but it is still very important. It is also important to take a deep look at the circumstances in which powers can be withdrawn when the powers are set up. Although the time for dismantling is not now, as has been estimated, and even if it is not easy to find suitable indicators, they still need to be considered from the outset. There must also be an opportunity for regional or regulation-specific demolition solutions. This also raises the question of the possibility of future use of the Act on communicable diseases. I think that this is an important reflection and also how the Act on communicable diseases can be developed in the future on the basis of the experience of this epidemic. The restriction of fundamental rights and of basic services must by no means go beyond what is necessary in order to safeguard health and life. This phrase actually shows the challenging reflection that the government and we, the Parliament, are facing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u13	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 10/2020 vp. The validity of the Regulation is now decided. Chairman of the Committee Ojala-Niemelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u14	Mr President! The Constitutional Committee has been assessed by a Government decree on the temporary limitation of the opening hours of restaurants in order to prevent the spread of infectious disease. The Regulation provides for areas in which catering establishments are to be kept closed to customers under the exceptional circumstances referred to in Article 3a of the Act on accommodation and catering activities. The Decree to be assessed is laid down pursuant to Article 3a(4) of the Act on accommodation and catering activities and Article 2 of the Government Act. Article 3a of the Act on Accommodation and Catering has been laid down with the involvement of the Constitutional Committee. Article 2 of the Decree, which defines the provinces in which the feeding establishments are to be kept closed to customers, lists all Finnish provinces in Sections 1 to 19. In the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the regulation is consistent with what was required by the Constitutional Committee in its opinion 7/2020 and remains within the mandate provided for by law. The committee believes that there is no obstacle to the entry into force of the regulation. The explanatory memorandum of the Regulation justifies the need for a restriction by region. According to the assessment presented by the National Institute for Health and Welfare on 31 March 2020 and as an annex to the Regulation, measures restricting the functioning of restaurants will continue to potentially reduce social contacts between people. In order to maximise the combined effects of restrictive measures, it is necessary to limit simultaneously the activities of the restaurants throughout the country, according to the National Institute for Health and Welfare. The National Institute for Health and Welfare concluded that limiting the opening hours of catering establishments is necessary to ensure that the outbreak can be sufficiently slowed down. The restrictions on the opening hours of nutrition stores are estimated to indirectly safeguard the availability of intensive care across Finland and thereby reduce the number of deaths. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs continues to stress the need for restrictions and the impact of regulation and the importance of correcting the problems identified. The Committee also draws attention to the need to assess from the point of view of fundamental rights the overall harm to society caused by restrictive measures in relation to their benefits in the future. Given the fundamental nature of regulation, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs continues to stress the importance of both reasonable compensation and prompt regulation of mitigation arrangements. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the Government decree should not be repealed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u15	Mr President! This Regulation significantly interferes with the freedom to conduct a business and the protection of property. The regulation is fixed-term and will be in force until the end of May. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to the need to justify the need to close restaurants separately in each region. The need for a restrictive measure must be justified both regionally and over time. The regulation lists all the regions of Finland. According to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, restricting the activities of nutritionists significantly reduces social contacts between people. It is an important part of the synergy between restrictive measures. There have already been signs of the effects of these restrictive measures in recent days. The closure of restaurants throughout the country is therefore necessary to slow down the outbreak. Thus, the capacity for intensive care will be sufficient during the peak of disease and everything will be managed. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that in future the overall harm to society from the closure of restaurants must also be assessed and compared with the benefit of the closure. The Committee stresses that restrictions on nutrition movements must be lifted as soon as restrictions are no longer necessary in the region concerned. Restrictions should therefore be abandoned at a time, depending on the situation. The Committee considers it important to compensate for the losses caused by the ban and to mitigate the effects. There must be ways of doing this, as has been the case with other companies. These measures have been dealt with in a wide range of ways this evening. Municipalities support sole entrepreneurs, ely centres a little bigger and Business Finland and Finnvera even bigger. Other measures are also needed here. An extraordinary time requires extraordinary means from us. New innovations are also needed. We can all support nutritionists by ordering food and home parcels from them. I would like to thank our skilful President, Johanna Ojala-Niemelä, for the guidance and clear communication of the Constitutional Committee in a hurry. Thank you to the experts and committee advisers and colleagues for working in the country day after day. We'll do it in the morning.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u16	Mr President! Thank you to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for bringing this matter to the fore, and so we will finally catch up with the restaurants. True, many restaurants have been closing their doors for some time now, because there are simply no customers. In particular, it applies to restaurants that operate, for example, in shopping centres where there have been no customers for a long time. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs highlighted the fact that this geographical demarcation might have been at issue in some way. However, it stated that it is quite justified at this stage to act as it is being done, in other words, in the whole country, at the same time, the restaurants are now closing down, which, in so-so-legal terms, seems to be a sensible solution, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also stated that when restrictions are lifted, it must then be considered whether it makes sense, for example, to do so at different stages throughout Finland. However, it is known that perhaps especially in restaurants where night and evening time are spent, possibly also drinking alcohol, and which are also called bars and nightclubs, perhaps such diseases, coronaviruses and others, are easier to spread when people are often close to each other, and here of course this ban applies to all restaurants, both restaurants and then cafes and bars and nightclubs. I am sure that this is justified at this stage, but how can such a restriction be applied only to certain types of canteens, even though it might be justified to prevent the spread of this disease? In this process, however, it became clear that we did not seem to have any articles in the current legislation, even a stand-by law, under which closed restaurants could have been obtained, and that is why this new law and regulation has now been adopted. So it was not the case that this catch-up came into force before the ex-post check-up, but was now done in such a way that Parliament first dealt with this, and then after that the 4.4th restaurants are closed, except that the exit is still allowed. However, when you talk to restaurant entrepreneurs, so many feel that it is a relief when they know exactly what they can do. However, many people still have a situation where suspension insurance does not compensate for losses. Fortunately, there are some who are certainly happy to see this happen. I have talked to many restaurant entrepreneurs and they say that now that only food is sold out of the restaurant and if it is thought that the volumes remain about the same for food, it requires a very large amount of labour, and when the alcohol sold in connection with food goes virtually to zero, it makes the situation in restaurants very difficult many times. Selling food in the same proportion as the margin from the sale of alcohol is very profitable. Many restaurants live by selling high-quality wines, for example, on the side of the food, and thus getting better coverage for their activities. Therefore, it would be very desirable for the government now to consider also such subsidies, possible deregulation of restaurant companies. Now this increase in alcohol sales has already been knocked out, but I would still like it to be considered. I do not believe that it is very easy to find the argument that it would have any effect on the alcohol problem if, when ordering food from a restaurant, you were to buy a bottle of wine, for example — which costs many times as much as Alko, and you do not necessarily get that wine from Alko. I think they're all the other places they usually get that alcohol. Other subsidies are, of course, needed to cover the costs and damage caused by the closure of restaurants, and we hope that there will now be more support from the government to cover the costs of these restrictions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u17	Mr President! The Government's proposal and the law passed by Parliament, and now this decree adopted by the Government and the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the basis of the law, are all justified. It is important that, in this pandemic situation, the right conclusion has been reached, i.e. that nutrition stores are now being closed down throughout the country. It would be totally unacceptable, however, if the whole country is already an epidemic area, that in some parts of the country restaurants could, in principle, be open on behalf of the legislation. This would leave entrepreneurs in great uncertainty, while, at the same time, legislators and authorities encourage people not to go into situations where there may be a risk of encountering other people, which always creates an opportunity for the virus to move from one person to another. The worst scenario could have been the situation where the garrisons from the southern garrison spend their nights watching the Uusimaa border and the garrisonmen from the northern garrison go on evening leave to spend the evening at the restaurant. Such a situation would have been completely unsustainable for the nation’s mental resilience to crisis. In this sense, the government of the country has made a wise decision, and it is good that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has come to the same conclusion that, at this point, it is justifiable that the nutritional movements throughout the country should be closed down. Mr President! Now, in particular, I call on the government of the country that, when this pandemic situation is not in any way the fault of restaurant entrepreneurs or the workers in the sector, the government of the country must urgently put forward the measures required by Parliament to ensure the continuity of business in this sector beyond this crisis. There's got to be money in the cash register so companies don't go bankrupt. There are certainly fair models for this to be found so that, once we get back to normal conditions, restaurants once again serve us and no entrepreneur loses his own livelihood, even though, at this very moment in exceptional circumstances, it has been absolutely necessary to restrict this activity in order to protect public health. Mr President! If there is a place in the Act on communicable diseases now, after this crisis, it must be related to this particular restaurant activity, how, in an epidemic or at the risk of an epidemic, can the activities of restaurants be controlled so that, in such a hurry, no new legislation is necessary in this regard. Of course, I continue to thank all those involved in this drafting and drafting of the law for the rapid progress that has been made, but this point could and should have been made even more quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-02-ps-45.u18	Mr President! The decision to temporarily restrict the opening hours of nutritionists, i.e. to close restaurants in practice, is right and good in order to combat this epidemic and prevent the spread of the disease. But this decision cannot be paid for by entrepreneurs. Decisions taken to protect Finnish people, which limit their livelihoods, cannot be paid by individual traders, and this decision, quite understandably, creates distress and problems for restaurants and restaurant entrepreneurs, which are precisely the result of these restrictive decisions. Therefore, it would have been reasonable that, at the same time as these restrictive decisions, those forms of aid should have been introduced to offset directly the disadvantages suffered by the State specifically to restaurants or catering operators, i.e. such a tailor-made package of direct payments to restaurants. As restaurants suffer from these restrictions, the State should take responsibility and support the most severely affected businesses with direct aid. When Parliament adopted legislative proposals on restaurant activities, it was required that the Board of Directors investigate reasonable compensation for restaurant entrepreneurs' livelihoods and operating conditions and that the Government take immediate action to support, where necessary, the livelihood of restaurant entrepreneurs during this exceptional period and also during its dissolution. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also called for compensation for these restrictions, so this is a final comment on this point.
