ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u2	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in that first debate was very detailed and, in fact, it could be said that there is nothing else to point out here except that, in general terms, when we are now considering these various state guarantees responsibilities, Parliament must be kept under constant care as to what is going on. That is what this draft statement from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy states. This statement draws particular attention to the fact that, no later than the autumn, further clarification is needed. I have to say that if we look at the growth of the State guarantee liabilities as a whole, we are particularly concerned about these guarantees that come through the EU. Now we have just heard about the establishment of such a new fund against the EU budget, which could amount to up to EUR 500 billion, and it would be the first such loan, as it were, to be applied for against the EU budget. This, too, is one of those things which, however, falls into the final game here on our budgetary responsibility. There is no money in the EU budget unless there are these national contributions. In that sense, it is indeed important to keep this whole in motion and to implement Parliament's budget in this regard. And the fact that our economy is structured in such a way that we have this shipbuilding industry, which from time to time also requires these large guarantees, has made the situation so that we are, however, the country with the highest guarantees in the EU in relation to GDP. That is why all these additional guarantees are always, you might say, more risky for us than for countries that do not otherwise already have that guarantee stock. But in itself, this proposal from the committee and Parliament is good and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u3	Mr President! At the same time, I would like to raise the 16% interest rate used by Finnvera. It has nothing to do with the proposal in itself, and the survival of SMEs from the corona crisis is not about the level of interest, but I think it is an important topic for us to talk about here in the Chamber. Finnvera, as a state-owned company, does not compete for financing with private financial institutions. Legal interest on late payment is 8%, but in business-to-business relations the Interest Act applies only if the interest rate or interest on late payment has not been agreed otherwise. In the view of the Ministry and Finnvera, the level of interest rate applied by the special government financing company cannot be substantially different from what is commonly used in the financial sector. In my opinion, the state here is punishing entrepreneurs at a disproportionately high rate of 16%, and the demand for a personal guarantee can quickly take away an entrepreneur's own home. A temporary 10% interest rate cap was already set for consumer credit in this Chamber. Would it also be appropriate to set an interest rate cap, even temporarily, for a State-owned financier?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u4	Mr President! The closure measures imposed by the Koronapandemia are very asymmetrically targeted at certain sectors where there has been no problem in the core business itself prior to the corona epidemic. Now that the authorities have suspended their decisions in the event of a derogation from the activities of traders or certain sectors, we, as a state and as citizens, must also show solidarity when the bill is due — entrepreneurs who have discontinued their activities in the interests of society and citizens with a view to protecting life and health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u5	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u6	Mr President! I think that, at that first reading, I am going to take the floor to say that this is a bit like the David versus Goliath scenario, where it is important to ensure that the negotiating power of these companies, which operate on these different platforms, is improved through this, because otherwise these big companies, which run these platforms, are totally sovereign in terms of how they can impose different conditions and similar conditions. In that sense, it is necessary to bring this EU regulation into force in our legislation. With regard to market law, too, the committee made a number of comments and also wanted to clarify these wordings so that there would be no misunderstandings — in that sense, these unanimous proposals which are still to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u7	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u8	Mr President! This was also the subject of a good debate last week and, in fact, after that debate, it turned out that, apart from the fact that this is a question... This is a transfer of the pension insurance scheme which is now held by a private operator to Kevva, and why this was brought to Parliament at this stage, although it has otherwise been agreed that urgent proposals relating to the interest rate will always be brought in now, because this private operator would cease to exist this year, and that is why this transfer was necessary. Indeed, there is no change in any kind of pension liability, pension contributions or pension benefits, but it is purely a question of this transfer. But the happy news was that, after that debate, when I met the chairman of the committee from Vehviläinen, he then said that this transfer would also become a saving of some EUR 600 million, that is to say, a very good and necessary thing in that sense. Whenever we can do something on that side of the savings side, the more we can support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u9	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u10	Mr President! Last week there was a slightly more interesting situation in front of us, because we had made national legislation precisely with the idea that we could protect these risk groups and thereby ensure that they did not have to apply for medical certificates for the renewal of their driving licence during this corona period separately, but at the same time similar measures were taken at EU level, when the committee considered that this could conflict with this regulation at EU level and, on the other hand, national legislation. That is why, exceptionally, a great deal of this proposal had to be cut off in committee, and many articles were therefore put into the wreck, so that the regulation simply stipulates whether it could be said, even less so, that the validity periods for driving licences will now automatically continue during this period of crisis. That is why, in this situation, it might be said that this EU regulation, which has taken a broader view of this issue, or which has taken a more lax view of it, went beyond this national legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u11	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u12	Mr President! The closure of restaurants from customers for two months has affected both the everyday lives of Finns and the lives and livelihoods of restaurant owners and employees. The law has meant a very significant interference in the freedom to conduct a business and the protection of property. However, this exceptional law adopted pursuant to Article 23 of the Constitution has been necessary to prevent the spread of the corona epidemic. In its Resolution of 6 May 1920, the Government decided on a plan for a hybrid strategy for the management of the corona crisis. As the disease situation gets a little easier, it is now possible for us to move on to the phase of a controlled transition from large-scale restrictive measures to more targeted measures and the Act on communicable diseases... [PresidentMattiVanhanen : Excuse me, Minister, for the moment. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u17	Mr President! Restaurants have been closed since 4.4. This has been a major setback for restaurant entrepreneurs, of course, but also for workers who have been laid off or even laid off from these companies. Now that the infection situation is calmer, it makes sense to lift the restrictions. It is already needed to run the wheels of our society. It is important that it is safe to go to a restaurant and to take care of those hygiene instructions and adequate instructions for restaurants. At the same time, however, we would like to see responsibility shown and confidence in restaurants, entrepreneurs and citizens in ensuring proper hygiene. As we have seen, the situation of infection in Finland has been well calmed down largely on the basis of a recommendation, and this fixed-term law does reveal a certain form of strong guardianship that is imposed on citizens. Food restaurants are meant to go there to eat and also to meet friends, and in that way this restriction, for example, to stop drinking at 10 p.m., does not really fit in. It's not about getting drunk, it's about having a night. [MikaNikko requests reply ] The government is now using this hybrid strategy, which involves the lifting of restrictions, but in the same breath I would ask: why could the hybrid strategy not also be that when the infection situation is different across Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u18	Mr President! The Government has introduced a temporary amendment to Parliament's amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, which relates to this closure of restaurants and now opens them again accordingly. This has been the result of a very exceptional action which has dealt with the freedom of the business of restaurant companies and also the protection of property in a very exceptional way, and it is important that, now that we are gradually moving towards normal conditions, restaurant activities are gradually being opened up. It is a highly justified and necessary measure at this point. Mr. Speaker! Now that we are dealing with this proposal, I believe that the fundamental question at this reading is to go through and consider what is necessary to restrict the restaurant business and what is not. What is absolutely essential, which is justified by the fact that there is still room for further restrictions on restaurant activities, and where there is justification for opening up restaurants to a wider extent. Here Mr Laiho has already brought these ideas to the fore very well. And I also see that this proposal is likely to lead to many restaurants remaining closed. This 50 % capping on restaurants will lead to smaller restaurants in particular not being able to open their doors, since, however, 100 % fixed costs will run but, in turn, it will not be possible to generate income in that respect. However, the performance will treat restaurant entrepreneurs of different sizes operating in different parts of Finland differently. Mr. Speaker! Furthermore, this proposal does not take sufficient account of the regional aspect. I would like to take the example of the Minister and the Signatory District of Satakunta, where no new cases of corona virus have been detected for three weeks. Of course, it is clear that in areas like this it is also perfectly justified to look more flexibly at this situation when the spread of the virus has been different from that of the corresponding ones, for example here in Uusimaa. I therefore believe that this must now be dealt with substantially in the context of this proposal as well as in the context of whether these regional flexibility can be brought about. In fact, I would ask the Minister why regionalism has not been taken into account in this proposal. Mr. Speaker! Finally, what has also been discussed in the past: we need to find all the means to support restaurant businesses. One concrete way of doing this is to allow wine to be sold out to restaurants. Do you support this proposal, Minister Kiuru, and do you intend to make changes to the alcohol law so that entrepreneurs can receive help through this too?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u19	Mr President! One of the key sufferers of this very special spring has just been the restaurant industry. It is quite clear that when people have been harassed at homes and restaurants have been ordered to catch up that has resulted in the collapse of the industry's income stream, layoffs and the accumulation of fixed costs. The luckiest ones may have gained some coverage because of the sale out, but that too has been a very uncertain way to play time. In any case, people have avoided moving, and cooking has been done from home. Against this background, I am delighted that we are at this point. I think it is important that the proposal gives hope to the future that we have been worrying about in many places this spring. Controlled opening of restaurants is the same signal that was made for basic education. Despite interest, life must continue, but caution, sense of situation, common sense and physical distance are still to be maintained. I broadly welcome the government's proposal and, of course, I welcome it. Although the government's proposal now rightly lays down rules for opening up, I think it is important that there is an opportunity for the game eye at the restaurant. I am not referring here to encouraging indifference, but to the fact that restaurants are very different in terms of their facilities and operating methods, so strict dictation may put nutrition movements in unreasonable difficulties. I would like to call for trust and responsibility not only for entrepreneurs but also for customers themselves. We should not frighten customers in advance, but remind them of the individual’s responsibility not only in distance but also in hand hygiene and in general in sound conduct. The presentation contains details that are available to all of us. They can be hopped if necessary, but it is very important that we get the proposal moving forward. Restaurants need to know what chips are from June onwards. They deserve this information. President! Finally, it is very important that the situation is actually monitored. It would be wise to have the possibility of specific regional solutions in the future. In all cases, the buffering of the national model is not the most agile option. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u20	Mr President! When the restrictions entered into force in March to April, the restaurant activities were banned until the end of May. Indeed, the whole restaurant and event sector quickly went into deep distress, in fact even earlier, after Thursday 12 March. It is regrettable that these preparations do not as a whole have the ability to understand people and businesses in the sector and their wider importance to Finland. The food service industry alone employs more than 80,000 people directly and indirectly some 36,000 people, not to mention thousands of companies. Now this government proposal, which has been received very quickly by us in Parliament on the basis of the Act on Disease Control — we only got it in our hands there less than an hour ago — raises many questions. The restrictions are becoming so severe that it is necessary to ask whether the entrepreneur in the nutrition sector has a realistic chance of profitable business. Why is the restaurant sector so heavily regulated, but we have shopping centres, sports centres and many others open, even in the summer, where there are dozens, hundreds of customers at the same time? Why is the restaurant sector so heavily regulated? The question is whether it is not a question of not wanting such so-called virus lines to occur in Finland. Of course, no one wants that. [Antti Lindtman’s interlude] One question is when this law now regulates these opening hours — I hope that the Minister will be able to answer — whether the distance selling of food can take place after 11 p.m. This new proposal now says that the restaurant can only be open from 06 to 23. We have a lot of burgers, pizzas and other places that have put their take-away sales in the last two months to the point that they can sell it after ten o'clock. If there is now a categorical ban on any sale of food after its 23rd, the proposal is unfortunately a heavy burden of regulation. I would like the government to feel, as quickly as possible, that one sector is not regulated so strongly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u21	Mr President! It is good that society should be carefully opened up once the corona situation has calmed down. Of course, it is also important for restaurant companies to be able to open up as soon as possible. Mr Laiho here in his speech smelled the taste of guardianship in this motion, but that is what the restrictions on exceptional circumstances are all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u26	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that this is of interest to this House and of great interest to the public. There are a number of policy areas here: this is partly alcohol policy, partly industrial policy, employment policy, why not substance abuse policy, and particularly health policy in these circumstances, because this is so directly linked to the corona. That is why this is not easy legislation, and that is something that each of us understands. I think it is important that we proceed cautiously and gradually, and I would like to take this opening time, for example, that there should only be an offer until 22. There is also some experience in this room, and we may have visited restaurants after 10:00 p.m. and we know that if we are in nightclubs or bars where the main product is alcohol sales and so on, [Sinuhe-Wallin-tribe] I myself draw attention to this aspect of territoriality. I understand that, at the beginning of this regulation, we are going to move in the same way across Finland, and if I have understood correctly, the government is going to look every two weeks at how the restrictions have worked, which means that when this 1.6. comes into force, before the Midsummer, there will be a first review period. Here the Satakunta came up — I can say that there has not been a first case of corona disease in North Karelia for more than three weeks, which indicates that our province is at least quite clean at the moment. But I also think that this regionalism was something that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs drew attention to in its earlier statements, and I hope now that this also goes to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a statement that there will also be an examination of this issue there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u27	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Kiuru, for presenting the law. When we deal with this crisis in exceptional circumstances, we keep society running as far as possible, and at the same time we must continue to ensure that fundamental rights and human rights are realised. Society should be opened with caution, step by step and with security — as soon as possible. Although this law is needed, it should be remembered that it also significantly restricts the fundamental rights of our citizens. Its constitutional effects should therefore be carefully considered. That is why I ask the Minister: why has this bill not come before Parliament, even though the retention of nutritionists as a measure of preparedness ends at the beginning of June and this date has always been known? I would like to raise this point of view in the light of the fact that this situation seems to continue, that the Constitutional Committee needs sufficient working time for its constitutional review. Constitutional experts must also have sufficient time to draw up their opinions. The opinions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs point the way to future legislation, which is why they must not be ruined in a hurry. I understand the pressure and urgency of abnormal situations — this is not easy legislation, as Mr Vehviläinen said earlier. Nevertheless, even in exceptional circumstances, we must focus on the fact that the preparation of laws is pre-eminence, so that there is sufficient time to deal with them properly. This should also be taken into account in the case of the dismantling and possible tightening of future restrictions. I also think it is important to apply the law regionally, even if we are starting with a uniform solution. The situation in different parts of Finland is very different. That is certainly also what we are considering in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u28	Mr President! So the restaurants are finally allowed to open their doors, from the beginning of June. But there is no cause for cheering. The operating environment of restaurants in Finland has already been quite impossible before the corona pandemic, for example due to persistent increases in alcohol tax and strict regulation. The restrictions imposed by interest have further weakened the situation and have even put the restaurant sector on the brink of bankruptcy. The work of many people and the work of life are at risk. This situation has been exacerbated by the fact that strict restrictions on the sale of alcoholic beverages have been maintained even during the crisis. It has also been completely forbidden to supply drinks at home. At the end of the Government's concession now at 10 p.m., a strong spirit of prohibition is heard, and this time limit is certainly not to be welcomed. The closing of restaurants as early as 11 p.m. is also artificial. Credit to restaurants and people is completely lacking. Where was the right to leave the wine — Mr Marttinen already asked about this — and the reduction in VAT on the issue of licences? Both would be measures that would certainly help the restaurant sector that is already struggling with its existence. The Finnish people and restaurants need no more guardianship.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u29	Mr President! There are around 10,000 restaurant companies in Finland, which were already evaluated in late March when this closure law was adopted, that about half of them are quickly getting into problems. Well, now that these restaurants are slowly opening on 1 June, almost all of these companies have problems. A lot of them are in a cash crisis. This week we have been discussing in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy the package of support that is being directed to these companies. The sector itself has asked for EUR 350 million, but 123 million has been offered by the government, and if this package comes, it will by no means be enough, and it is already very late, so these companies will be operating in major problems. Furthermore, the problem with this aid package is that the second part of it is employment aid, which favours companies which employ as many employees as possible in June, July, August, and now, if only partially open, how will they benefit from this employment aid, which is specifically intended for this initial phase? Then there is the fact that there is now a regional reflection going on here, which is that, although we are starting now with the country as a whole, we hope that we will then be able to take regional action in the future. Many have already said that North Karelia, Satakunta, Etelä-Savo are areas where there are hardly any coronavirus infections, and yet they still have to follow this same approach as elsewhere. From the point of view of these restaurants, it makes no sense. Should not the hybrid strategy that the government is pursuing specifically take into account flexibility? In order for these companies to be able to function better in the future, the sale of wines and other alcoholic beverages must be allowed and, in addition, the VAT on alcoholic beverages must be reduced from 24% to 14% for at least this year. It seems like an incredible guardian to go to the opening of restaurants on such short and inflexible terms when Finland is on its way to holiday time. Saying you have to sit in a restaurant but serving on tables is not mandatory or not taking food and drink yourself from a buffet table sounds like a large-scale guardianship. Do you not believe, Minister, that there is no understanding in the restaurant sector of how to operate there and how to serve the customers? The sector cannot start in this way, and of course Finns themselves expect to enjoy what they have had to give up for a couple of months.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u30	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Kiuru, for the introduction. The restaurant industry is facing a long dry summer. The economic blow has been severe already during the spring and, of course, it will not be easy in the light of these new restrictions either. However, it is clear that the advantage of the economy as a whole and also of the entire restaurant sector is that this disease can be suppressed to a level where the risk of infection in everyday life is as low as possible, and that is why this proposal has been made, and that is why this proposal is justified. And that is why, even in areas where the disease situation is good or excellent in itself, we should approach this issue with great caution and not, as it were, do right away what is possible — its caution must be involved in this, the big picture of what is actually being done here. However, it is important to monitor the development and accumulation of the knowledge base at all times, for example, as regards the most likely sources of transmission, the transmission chains, of this type, and it is therefore good that this proposal should be reviewed at regular intervals. But this is not, in my opinion, a question of guardianship, it is a question of us as a society combating serious infectious disease, and that means that we must make clear guidelines, clear legislation, within which every actor then assumes its own responsibilities. That's what this is all about, not so much guardianship. [Mari-Leena Talvitie’s interlude] Now we are dealing with the Act on communicable diseases, but the regulation of the restaurant sector is, of course, a whole package, and there have already been other shortcomings and requests for correction here. I myself believe that the sale of wines would have been justified, perhaps it would have been the VAT review also, in this way, as a counterweight to the challenge of restrictions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u31	Mr President! So the government decided that restaurants should be open at 11 p.m., that the ceremony will end at 10 p.m., that the terraces will not limit the number of people. In addition, the Board of Directors decided that half of the normal customer intake should be allowed. I thank the government for this decision on the terraces. Little by little, I wondered what the epidemiological assessment of this government’s decision at 22 o’clock was based on. What makes drinking alcohol safe before the Ten News, but during the Ten News it turns into a virus? It would be good to know those epidemiological assessments behind this decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u34	Mr President! This corona update in the restaurant sector has been expected for some time, and now it is in our deliberations — good that something is in the process at least. The government, however, always has certain chronic weaknesses in these proposals, i.e. the fact that regionalism and proportionality cannot be taken into account. This territoriality is reflected, for example, in the decision that when schools were opened everywhere in the same way, restaurants are being opened everywhere in the same way, although it is clear that the situation of the corona epidemic in different regions of this country is not the same. In other words, it should be able to be taken into account with clear indicators as to what is the corona infection situation in which region. There are examples of how that territoriality can be taken into account if it is to be taken into account and not hasty with them. For example, when I talked to a restaurant entrepreneur in my neighborhood, he wondered how his restaurant is now just selling out, no drinking service, even though the shop across the street runs hundreds of people, thousands of people a day, and trade activities in its own regulation are more voluntary. So in the restaurant the disease is contagious, but is it not contagious in the store, even though there are many more people there than this restaurant is going to visit? In other words, what must be open and what should not be open should also be able to justify, what is the basis for such regulation — we are talking about an exemption law, which is still in force until the end of October, is no small matter. When previous speeches asked whether restaurants now have the opportunity to make profits through such regulations, it is quite clear that this is not possible. This regulation will not be able to generate profits in a sector that is already well-competitive and does not have any prospect of a gold mine. In other words, this will be a loss, and it should also be possible to compensate in some way for the product range, i.e. for the nutritional conditions that have been able to function in any way up to now, in a different way than for drinking-weighted restaurants, which are now unable to function properly. This limitation of the indulgence to 10 p.m. sounds arbitrarily and artificial putting bedtime to the people — such a term could be used. So it has now been invented that such a time is more appropriate than another time and that no proper justification has been given in the proposal. Of course, I disagree with many of the previous discussions: I personally would consider buffet service a health risk. Yes, the viruses are contagious when they are used for the common meals and takers. That is certainly where it will spread, which means that it is justified to restrict it. On the other hand, I agree that there is still no right to sell out wines, which should already be in the legislation of the normal period, that wine can be sold out of the restaurant — not even under this exemption law, and that is something I can only marvel at.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u36	Mr President! It is clear that society needs to get around, and companies need to be able to do business, and entrepreneurs need to support themselves and their families with it and avoid bankruptcies. On this basis, this issue of restaurant opening has also been brought to Parliament. However, there are many approaches to this issue, how can this be considered? I will at least approach the matter in such a way that this pandemic is far from over and, of course, an increase in human encounters must be carried out with thought. However, we are responsible for the way in which this virus is allowed or not allowed to spread. Now, in the context of the opening of restaurants, when the government is considering these various measures, how it is to be implemented, it is quite right to consider whether or not the buffet restaurants are open, whether or not the tables are being served and how many times the restaurants are open or not. The problem is that there are so many different types of restaurants. If we go to my village in Korso, where there are more than ten diners, we may well guess what will happen there, especially at night, when things get better. Yes, I say that during nighttime and eveningtime, when things get bigger, these instructions about personal distance are very easily forgotten. However, now that this legislation has not in any way sanctioned this infringement — for example, if the restaurant is in violation of liquor law or instructions, you may lose your license — it is very difficult to go out here and punish restaurants for not having the government's intention to reach other people and to prevent the spread of the virus. In that sense, I would also like the government to provide concrete tools for monitoring this and for tackling it quickly if it is discovered that viruses are beginning to spread. We have, for example, this club in Levi's ski resort, which was a real viral link for a very long time before the ski resorts were closed down. We also remember that, in Europe, the virus started to progress, especially in northern Italy, from one of the three pubs where one person infected several people at the bar. In other words, restaurants play a central role when they talk about spreading the virus or preventing it. To conclude, I would like to ask the Minister that now that Linnanmäki is preparing to open his door and hire nearly 600 summer workers there, how can they implement it, because according to the current guidelines, there are still more than 500 people who cannot be held. Avit interprets it this way, but Linnanmäki interprets it differently so that they can open their doors at their own discretion, even for 5,000 people,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u37	Mr President! One of the biggest economic sufferers of the exceptional spring has been the restaurant sector, and the gradual opening up of society is now important. The left-wing government, however it may be, for me, this government proposal becomes a guardianship: we do not trust a person, we do not trust a customer, we do not trust a restaurant owner, we do not trust the restaurant employees. In a certain way, the restaurant industry is even demonized as a drinking business. I find this extremely regrettable. I understand that behind all this is the concern about human health caused by the corona virus, but as long as we do not go any too far. I would like to raise a few questions, and I hope that everyone will be able to interpret my own opinion on them. Is a glass of wine less dangerous before 10:00 p.m. before 10:00 p.m.?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u40	Mr President, värderade talman! Att restaurangerna nu kan öppna igen stegvis är mycket väkommet. För att detta första steg ska lyckas krävs det ansvarsfulhet av både krögare och av kunder. Det sista någon nu önskar är att krog- och kaféöppnandet blir en explosion i smittspridning. Nu måste vi följa upp hur det bull lyckas före vi kan fortsätta luckra upp reglerengarna mer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u41	Mr President! Let me start with the symbol: If we have a disease that slowly begins to relax when we use some medicine, what must we do at a certain point: should we continue with the medicine that fears that the disease will increase again, or should we stop taking the medication? So now, metaphorically, we are in this similar situation. That disease is just this big epidemic, and that drug has been these restrictive measures. In other words, we are in a very demanding situation of choice, and I think it is right that we should proceed cautiously in this situation to open restaurants. When the restaurants were closed, I drew attention to the fact that the government agreed to it among the five on Monday 23 March and the whole government on Tuesday 24 March and we had the process up until Saturday the next week. Even on the previous Friday before that Saturday in my hometown of Turku I walked and some of these things were more open. Personally, I have always felt sorry for food restaurants, and with my close friends we have tried to support them by getting take-away meals there. Admittedly, this has been quite devastating to the whole of the industry, but it has always been the intention of getting this epidemic under control. Now that I have heard this debate, I have heard more criticism of being patronized. I'm used to these conversations between the opposition and the government... Now, I do not want to criticise the opposition as a whole, for example, Mrs Nikon's speech was very good, but this time it has always been asked by the House that it should be patronised, regulated, monitored, not trusted. My goodness, if we were to make this all free, then all we need is something happening in one restaurant in one province, and the question is whether the government is aware of the fact that there have been people in it and in that restaurant in that province, which is why there is a wider corona epidemic spreading in that province. This is a very well thought-out – admittedly complicated – proposal, but this is how we will gradually move forward. The Act on Disease Control is a very strong law. Of course, it's familiar to me because of my background. There's 93 pieces in it. Its Article 58, as it is now, is very strong and perhaps it could have been used to make decisions on a municipal basis, for example, bigger than those that have been taken, but it is now very good that new Articles 58a and b are added to the law and then a regulation is adopted on the basis of them. In other words, it is in this form that I strongly support this cautious opening-up of the restaurant industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u42	Mr President, värderade talman! Jag vill passa på att tacka Aki Lindén och Veronica Rehn-Kivi och många andra för goda talturer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u43	Mr President! I just got a message from the entrepreneur. He had listened to the radio and picked up the first information from this performance. He works with a gas station on the highway, and his message was that professional drivers start moving more and more after five o’clock — of course, sleep rhythm means a little breakfast and coffee, and then, of course, these rest periods for professional drivers are tight — and his question is whether there is no flexibility in this regard, but it is strictly six o’clock. I have not had enough time to look into this yet, but perhaps the Minister can answer whether, after five, professional drivers may be allowed to take a short break so that they can have breakfast and coffee. There is also another aspect of these subtleties and relaxations, which is not directly covered by Minister Kiuru, but rather by Minister for Sport, Mr Kosonen, but I would like to raise this point here, because the same whole is being discussed — coronavirus, human welfare, social cohesion. It concerns events such as football and baseball. After all, we now have the line that the maximum number of people allowed to go to the stands is 500, or practically less than 500, because there are marshals and ticket vendors and so on, that is to say, when all these are included, there may only be about 400 people, all including 500. Well, this is a very inflexible figure. As far as restaurants are concerned, it is said that the number of customers should not be limited to more than half of this maximum allowed number, i.e. there is a figure that is allowed by the authorities, and then half of it is taken away, and thus the interest rate challenge is met. Could it be the same for the audiences? For example, when we have more than 17,000 spectators at the Ratina Stadium in Tampere, is the figure 500 directly appropriate when compared to a 3,000 - person stadium where there would be 500? Here I still hope that the authorities will take a case-by-case approach to this Government decision in principle, in which this 500 has been raised. We have 12 teams in the betting league, and I don't think it's overwhelming to look at these fields, their capacity, their entry routes, the number of spectators, the number of ticket outlets and this type of thing, and take a local perspective on it and take it into account, always health ahead, but in view of local circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u44	Mr President! It is a great relief that in dealing with the corona crisis we have come to the point where we can lift restrictions one by one. It is also crucial for the economy and social life of our country. As in the various stages of the crisis, the government has wisely made its decision with regard to the health of its citizens as the most important thing. As a result, mortality and morbidity due to corona have remained low relative to our population. Listening to health authorities and experts, it is time to move on again and begin to alleviate the impact of the epidemic and restrictive measures on people’s daily lives and livelihoods to the extent that it is safe. Now is the time to encourage people that a gradual return to normal, which can also be called a new normal, is safe. With clear safety and hygiene regulations, we can start to enjoy the services of restaurants and cafes, for example. The Government has today outlined the opening of restaurants since the beginning of June. At the first stage, restaurants can take in half of the normal customer numbers. Restaurants can be open until 11 p.m. and can be offered until 10 p.m. The customer seat limit does not apply to outdoor terraces. The responsibility for our own conduct is stronger than ever for each one of us. We already know enough about the ways in which the corona virus spreads, that it is important to remember safety distances and health hygiene also when staying outside. Mr President! It is good that the government is vigilant in monitoring and evaluating the dismantling of restrictions on opening hours and customer volumes. Let us hope that the phasing-out of the restrictions will proceed with the wind and that regional solutions can also be taken into account. During the crisis, we have had major regional differences in terms of corona sufferers and the dead, even in non-corrosive areas where categorical restrictions and closures have seemed to be excessive. Now is the time to give responsibility and trust to entrepreneurs in the sector and their customers. It is in our common interest that health and safety regulations are respected, as the corona virus remains among us. As long as the vaccine is not available, we must learn to live with the virus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u45	Mr President! Personally, I am a little surprised at this restaurant debate here, when there is talk of restaurants here in general, even though the restaurants are quite different — very different. There are lunch restaurants, there are food restaurants, there are pubs, dating restaurants and nightclubs. Now, of course, this is what is going to happen, that in practice this does little to help nightclubs, because nightclubs cannot become day clubs by decision of the government or by decision of the parliament. In any case, the restaurant sector and nightclubs and such would in some way also need support, because the situation is that sales cannot by any means be the same as before, that is to say, return does not normalise it in any way. It would be some kind of VAT bill or liberalisation of the sale of goods or something else that should be found in this job. Likewise, of course, what would have been, as was the case with several speeches, is that this regional case would have been taken into account in this work, because in the provinces things are much different from in many other places. However, it must also be borne in mind that the people at risk are not, if food restaurants are not counted now, it is said, especially the highest number of customers in nightclubs and the like, that is to say, the majority of nightclubs, and there are younger people in these types, which is not in this risk group in that way and which is involved in some other way. Earlier, a representative said that there is a risk of going under the skin in the restaurant. Well, that's true, and you could actually say that it's meant to be — at least in my restaurant time, when I went to them back in the day, it was just that. Of course, the birth rate in Finland will also rise. If I thought about the time and the fact that I didn't get to go to the restaurant, I would have found those contacts in other ways. In my opinion, that restaurant would not have been the thing that would have prevented its corona virus from spreading at that point. Well, that goes without saying that when we pack up that restaurant... But whether the restaurant will be packed at noon or midnight — I cannot see what the difference is if it is kept. Now, however, this is still a little limping, even if there is no such restriction on the terrace. So now somehow this clock thing won't open up to me, what's the deal? And indeed, quite a few nightclubs have any kind of joy in this, so that their finances will improve at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u46	Mr President! It is good that the government has finally completed the proposal. However, I think that the end of the concession one hour before the closing time for restaurants is very artificial and makes it difficult for restaurants to survive. The restriction also means that it is almost impossible to make the restaurants profitable. You don't make a profit with a 50% fill rate when rents, wages and other expenses run. MaRa's proposal to reduce VAT on restaurant delivery and food serving for a limited period could be of great help, since it is not possible to cover full costs under these restrictions. Sometimes the question arises as to whether there is enough listening to the professionals in each field, that is, the people who do a particular job when these decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u47	Mr President! The opposition, particularly the Coalition Party, has asked a lot of questions about the government's strategy, and, as has been said many times in this Chamber and stated at the Prime Minister's mouth, the hybrid strategy is now the one to proceed. It is precisely these restrictions and their gradual dismantling and also the objective of preventing the spread of the virus. If trying to prevent the spread of this virus is patronizing, so be it. However, all means must be used to prevent the spread of the virus and it has called for restrictions that are now being dismantled. In Finland, this has been done in an exemplary way, both here and here, as far as decisions are concerned, and among the citizens. Finland has not gone to the street, as in the USA, for example, where a group of people are demanding that restrictions be lifted. In other words, since we have managed to contain the virus in such a flexible and rapid manner, but have not stopped the spread, we must not give up at this stage and simply leave ourselves to be taken. I am well aware that there have been concerns here about the importance of these clocks now, but I believe that for my part, and I am sure that the Minister will also confirm this, that there has been careful consideration and consideration of the various options, and that consideration has also been given to the importance of these, for example, in the case of nightclubs. I don't know, but there may be people in this room who have been to nightclubs already, lined up there before midnight or after midnight. When there are a lot of people in that line, then there is a line waiting for a bar and perhaps going on a dance floor or somewhere else, there may be situations in front of it that spread the virus faster than, for example, at a café or at lunch or on the terrace. I do not know whether the government has wondered whether the virus is spreading more quickly in that nightclub than elsewhere, but such a situation may arise. Perhaps it would be in favour of leaving the bar at eleven o’clock — there is, of course, the risk of staying out in public places to celebrate and so on — that is to say, this proposal now makes it possible to do so. But all in all, I believe that, while these restrictions still exist, they will gradually be dismantled, each region will be dismantled, and if there is still a short period of time to keep it at a distance, then perhaps we will be able to get to that bar at some point and perhaps there on the dance floor and even to keep that closeness even more — while still a little longer and we will do all we can to ensure that this virus does not continue to spread.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u48	Mr President! It is now necessary to maintain a systematic, analytical and long-term approach to the prevention of corona and to ensure that the disease does not spread in Finland. I would like this commitment from all of us, especially since, for example, there in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we are working together on government-opposition limits without regard to these exceptional measures. Until recently, many people were concerned about whether there are now enough strict and precise recommendations and restrictions, and now suddenly there is talk of guardianship. When we leaped into the early stages of the epidemic, many in the opposition were even angry that there had been no more rapid closure of restaurants than the government and then the Constitutional Committee and Parliament did. Restaurants were then considered very dangerous places, and since then only more evidence has been collected. Even if 90% of people act responsibly, unfortunately, we need the 10 percent small group that accumulates somewhere close to spending time together and is in close contact with them, and then we already have a coronal. In fact, it seems that some, with the evidence gathered, have gone in the opposite direction: that suddenly this risk would not exist. I wonder, though, because there are few places where we have as much evidence of coronalings as of restaurants, especially nightclubs, parties, public events, other places where the whole nature of the event is that we are close together. Of course, the situation in cafés and food restaurants is often quite different. But now that we have talked about nightclubs, it is necessary to recognize that the nature of nightclubs does not necessarily fit the safety gap of two metres, especially on the dance floor in the morning. There is obviously a need for a little translation here as to what matters with the clocks. The longer we continue to give, the more people drink and the more intoxicated people there are in the restaurant, and, as we all know, where sober people can act with great responsibility, be very careful to keep their safety intervals, wash their hands, use their hands, and otherwise take care of their responsibility, the drunken state affects their judgment, influences their motor skills, and influences how likely they are to act responsibly. Therefore, in order to reduce these probabilities, we should at least start now with the deliberate opening of restaurants, see what the situation is and then think again. It's not about demonizing alcohol. This is about the fact that the corona is a serious threat that spreads more easily in other places than in others, and now we have to prioritise people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u49	Mr President! When I have listened to the debate, I have come to the conclusion that we all agree in this Chamber that restaurants must be opened in a controlled manner. Of course there are small differences of opinion, but I personally believe that this compromise that has now been reached in the government can be lived up to. It supports restaurants, but of course it is still important that the Constitutional Committee examines the constitutionality of the proposal very carefully. Like many other speakers, I consider these regional solutions to be important. We have many areas in which strict bans may not be as good a basis as, for example, here in Uusimaa. And I really hope that the Council of State will then exercise the power that this proposal is about to give it, that regionally it will then be staggered, and that in certain provinces it will be ready to take those opening decisions quickly. I would also like to thank the government for this promotion of the distance selling of small breweries when you have reached that conclusion. It's an important solution. I do not think it makes sense that, at the moment, a truckload of beer can be ordered legally from Germany, even though it cannot be ordered from Finnish breweries. However, I would encourage the government to consider these free ways of supporting restaurants, if possible. One way could be to extend this extension of out- and distance sales to an exceptional period. Many restaurants have large stores of alcohol that cannot be moved forward now, and it could be possible for them to get rid of it through distance selling and pick-up sales. Perhaps the best thing about this proposal, however, is that these restrictions do not strictly apply to terraces. I'm sure it's good for every restaurant with a terrace. So let's hope together for a warm Indian summer and a cold drink and thirsty customers for Finnish terraces.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u50	Mr President! It is difficult to understand this decision by Prime Minister Sanna Marin's government to continue these restrictive measures in the restaurant and café sector throughout the country: the opening hours of restaurants will also be restricted in the summer, and the number of customers will therefore be limited to the normal half. Indeed, in many provinces no more corona infections have been observed, and up to five infections have been reported in the 11 medical districts in May by the middle of the month. I personally believe it is necessary for the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee to assess the government's proposal on a regional basis, as the Constitutional Committee stated in the first decision that an evaluation must be carried out in time and regionally. I do not think that this has been done. What is the necessary need to keep cafés and lunches closed for the whole of May and even after that limit their activities to half in municipalities where there have been no infections recently or throughout the epidemic? This is a very extreme restriction of fundamental rights, a restriction on the freedom to conduct a business and the protection of property. When the opening of Uusimaa was justified by the fact that it was legally necessary to do so, when there were no more reasons to continue its bulkheads, the question now has to be asked what is the basis for these exceptionally drastic restrictions in North Karelia, Eastern Savo and, for example, Åland will continue in June. This is the case, Mr President, with the half-opening of the cafés, but their costs — both rent costs, energy costs and many wage costs — are virtually fully paid even if the number of customers is reduced by half. It was found that the intention was to reduce the restrictions by amending the regulation, if allowed by the epidemic situation. Restrictions can also be tightened if the epidemic situation so requires. But now we have to ask what still needs to happen in North Karelia, Eastern Savo and Åland that they can get rid of the yoke of these restrictive measures when no corona virus has been detected. Mr President! It will be the case that, with these continued restrictions, even in regions where the corona virus does not bother people, bankruptcies will also be seen in the restaurant, café and more unemployment. I hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will intervene in this motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u51	Mr President! First of all, it should be noted that, at the beginning of the epidemic, restrictions on the activities of nutritionists were justified by legislation. There was a broad common will here in Parliament. Indeed, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is now considering a model of compensation that compensates for the restriction of legitimate business. In accordance with this Government's proposal from the beginning of June, food stores can be opened on a limited scale. Half of the normal people can be taken into the premises, and the night closes at 11 p.m. Mr President! Parliament and, among other things, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, when this restriction came into force, stated that restrictions should be lifted on a regional basis if the epidemic so permits and, in fact, the restrictions can only apply for a particularly justified reason. Now there are many areas in Finland, as Mr Heinonen said in the previous speech, where the epidemic has been under control for several weeks, for example in all the sub-regions, the corona has been badly beaten. However, this proposal does not comply with Parliament's will for regional separation, which was mentioned earlier, and I believe that this issue is now being considered by the committees during this parliamentary debate. There is one fundamental problem here, because companies are trying, of course, to be profitable. Many restaurant entrepreneurs, for example, have been in contact with these sub-regions and have said that if half of the restaurants are available, they will not open the restaurant at all, it will not be economically viable. As a result, this government proposal does not in all respects meet the sincere objectives of the government itself, which would return the business of these companies step by step to normal. It might not come back with this logic at all. So I would like to ask the Minister once again — it has already been mentioned here: when will these regional deregulation measures required and required by Parliament begin? Why do they not start on 1 June?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u52	Mr President! We Finns have now shown that we are a very responsible people. We have followed these restrictions very carefully, we have followed the instructions carefully, and it is a matter of credit to the Finnish people that Finland is in such a good situation at the moment with regard to this epidemic. Yes, there will continue to be an order for this famous Finnish horde, and now that we are going to step up and open these restrictions, the responsibility will increasingly be passed on to us individuals. It has been said here that citizens no longer need any more guardianship. But I am asking here in the same way as any other representative: what if everything had been opened all at once — we are about to have a holiday season, people are moving, people are changing places, changing provinces and going to restaurants — and then if it had happened that the epidemic had burst again? I know that, and I admit that there is a very good situation in North Karelia at the moment with regard to the epidemic, and I am sure everyone is looking forward to the terraces opening and people getting to eat at the restaurant. But it must be remembered that when it comes to the first day of June, summer holidays start, they are not just people in their own province, but people move around Finland, move from Uusimaa, Northern Ostrobothnia and so on. So here is the goal to protect the Finns and to see that the restrictions are gradually lifted. Therefore, I personally think it is very important that now that we look at this situation and if the situation remains under control, then at a rapid pace we are prepared to further dismantle these restrictions so that we can get back to normal. And I don't think it's meant to be permanent. And then I also agree that once we get moving, then we will have to look more closely at this regional situation in the future. If the situation remains good, then these restrictions will be lifted more strongly in different regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u53	Mr President! Of course, it would be terribly nice if we did not have this epidemic anymore and could return to a normal course of life, but this is not the situation and may not be the case before the vaccine. I believe that this proposal will reach the elements that we need in this situation. We still need common rules of the game. We cannot do what we used to do. This criticism of the opposition, and in particular of the coalition, is now very confusing, and I must say that there have been quite good comments on the management of the corona epidemic along the way, but now I have no idea what the wind is about: first we are demanding strict restrictions, and now we cannot impose any rules on such large gatherings. Is the aim of the Convention, then, to allow the disease to spread even more — unfortunately, it now sounds that way? [Column: Absolutely not!] It is also appropriate for us to look at this overall economic situation. As we have now been able to read, the Swedish economy is expected to deteriorate just as much as Finland, and there are so many more dead there. Many people have suffered, including these economic and health objectives, which are linked to the protection of life, to the extent that may have been hoped for. And here, too, in this Chamber, reference has sometimes been made to what is being done in Sweden. Now we know that we cannot act in the way we used to let people just decide when to go to a restaurant or when to meet if we want to curb the progress of these infections, as we have now decided to do jointly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u54	Mr President! It is important that this corona epidemic should be eradicated as a whole in this country, and in the coming weeks it is important that we ensure that the infections do not start to rise again. These restrictions, which we have had, have been absolutely necessary, but now thank the government for the fact that when this epidemic situation is so good in the country, we will be able to open these restaurants a little more widely. Good speeches have been made here, but from this point of view of the assembly, perhaps more criticism has been received, so I would say that this is only a matter of us following the safety guidelines that are still valid everywhere: safety intervals, good coughing and hand hygiene, keeping our hands off the face and so on. And if we have a certain maximum number of customer seats in restaurants, then it is quite tightly calculated, so that if we now had a maximum of no more than half of it, then we might as well have these safety intervals. In that sense, I think that, despite this bill, the practical implementation of the security gap still needs to be considered and monitored. And I would see that this board proposal, that no more than half of the number of customers allowed to be inside, is also for restaurants and café operators such as a support line, guidance. They can also appeal to this guidance if it happens that in that evening someone seeking to become a client no longer remembers this instruction, or perhaps the math head is already a little blurry in the early part of the evening. These security intervals should be taken care of not only indoors but also there with terraces. For example, we in Tampere have been engaged in taking away in such a way that the restaurant owner, the coffee shop manager, has borrowed chairs and tables that it is possible to spread out on the park street. And indeed, at this point in time, these are valid throughout the country, which means that we now have a good opportunity to practice, to see whether we will succeed in implementing them in such a way that the epidemic does not start to rise. And I believe that smaller towns, too, have a wish, as is the case everywhere, that tourism this summer will go to the country of origin, and I would say, only and only to the country of origin, and I would hope that Finnair will take these steps as well. And in that sense, we would continue to take care of security intervals and these guidelines in those areas where there are little or no infections at all, so that these infections will not increase in the future. In other words, the better we will now adhere to these guidelines in practice and we will be able to stamp out this epidemic, the sooner we will be able to open up society, and I would say that, even in the future, it is very good to keep these guidelines in mind and put them into practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u55	Mr President! It has been argued here that what is the line of the coalition and how we were in March also making these restrictions as a united group. It is quite clear that they were needed at that time. People did not have crisis awareness at the beginning of March, but when the government's communication on Thursday 12 March was and was also told about the situation, it happened that there was a fall in turnover of 70 to 80 per cent, although the law was not yet in force at the time. And it is true that responsible entrepreneurs already closed down before the law was in force, and then the law came into force, of course, everyone else did. But now that this ban is not categorically being put forward, which is important for opening up society, it is of course essential that we do these things before health, but also bearing in mind that, if and when action and society can be opened up — for example, in terms of events restrictions and other things that have been done for the summer — then when it comes to business activities, it must also have the opportunity to engage in profitable activities. Many European countries have different obligations. There are also obligations that do not actually relate to clock times. In Sweden, for example, nutritionists must ensure that there is no congestion and queues and that sufficient distance is taken from each other. I am not in favour of the Swedish line except that they have not tied them to the clocks there, but they have required, just as in Finland, that there should be no congestion and no queues and there must be sufficient distances. Then, at this time of day, it is also done here in Europe, for example in Germany, so that the maximum period of stay at the restaurant is two hours. Maybe I'd understand more about limiting it. We also have nutrition stores where it starts in the daytime — and the responsible entrepreneur, of course, works so that he does not serve the intoxicated customer — but here we are thinking that 22 is the time when [MariHolopain intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u56	Mr President! With regard to the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases, I would like to continue with this speech by Mrs Talvitie that, in this situation, while the restaurants are now allowed to open their doors — but with these restrictive measures — additional bureaucracy is required of them. If it is thought that such a plan is needed as to how it is done in its own restaurant, then could it not have been that everyone does it by following those instructions and regulations, making it a plan that would not require such additional restrictions? Then, too, it would be at national level so that everyone would follow the instructions that need to be followed from a health point of view, there is no need to take on other elements. It is precisely the intention here to prevent the spread of this epidemic. Then I would like to highlight this timetable. It was only about an hour before this sitting began that we received this proposal. I would just like to ask: is this a good legislative preparation, that a proposal is being brought to the House at this stage, something that we do not even have time to study? It should be discussed here in the referral debate and then put those messages to the committee, to get the broadest possible debate on the good and the bad. There is a feeling that Parliament is just a rubber stamp here, and I ask, when the minister is here, why is this only being imported now, when the need for this has been obvious before? Then, as far as these restrictions are concerned and the point of view of the assembly are concerned: of course, when the situation was what it was, then in March — it was already stated that there was an epidemic here, and there was a high rate of infectivity — the restrictions were in order and it was felt that restrictions were needed. Of course we want to put an end to this epidemic and to keep the infection rate below 1, despite the fact that restrictions are now being relaxed. When they are monitored regularly and closely and we have clear goals, we can also open restrictions, but we do not need to whip one branch of the business here. It is also worth noting, as has already been asked here, how, for example, restaurant subsidies take account of the fact that their operating conditions are still being restricted.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u57	Mr President! We must remember this background from how the government has taken these restrictive measures: After all, at the time when the government went on to take restrictive measures, you had an estimate that about 2.5% or 2% of the population would have been infected. Since then, when the antibody tests came, the actual number of confirmed cases showed that only about 0.2% of the population has been infected or infected with the antibody. And if they were all 2081 antibody tests now calculated and had 51 positive results, it would be 2.25% but only four of these tests are 100% positive, so it is very uncertain how much of the population has contracted this infection. Overall, Finland is only at a very early stage in the spread of this epidemic. 6400 infections — only 0.35% of the population are infected if the threefold coefficient used by THL for informal calculations is used. This is the information I've been given from there. Mr President! Restaurants are quite different from pubs, and that is why it would have been good to distinguish between cafés and restaurants in these regulations. But what I want to ask the Minister, if you still remember to answer it, is that when there is this policy that more than 500 people's public events are banned until 31 July, tell me who all of this applies to. Today I have learned from the openings that the opening hours of amusement parks are interpreted by them according to events, not tourism. At the beginning of May, the government had said that amusement parks are tourism and are not subject to these restrictions on the number of people. Now that Linnanmäki has announced that they will open Linnanmäki doors 12.6. On Friday, they do not actually know — today I called and asked about it — whether they are allowed to take in more than 500 people or not. Avi's management is not allowed to take it, it is a clear line that only less than 500 people can come to such events at once. Would you mind answering which is the correct information now? If this is the case, then how do you guarantee that the children there will not infect each other or infect the parents, or at any rate, because we all understand that it is extremely difficult to comply with these hygiene rules at the amusement park because they are in the middle of the game? This also affects the fact that all other events in Finland in practice can be opportunities for more than 500 people if they are related to tourism. This would then include all sorts of opportunities that can be imagined.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u58	Irade the Talman! Regeringen har i dag enats om att restaurantverksamheten ska kunna öppnas från och med den 1 train. Det betyder i huvuddrag att restauranterna ska ordna med tillräckligt avstånd i utrymmen och säkerstä öjligheter till handhygien samt intensifiera stadning och se till att stolar inte är så nära att man kan få smän av varandra. Det ska vara och drunk tryggt att gå på restaurant och inte vara trängsel. Alkohol får säljas till klockan 22, restaurantangerna måste stänga senast kluckan 23. Personligen hade jag önskat att försäljningen hade fått pågå till klockan 23 och stänning vid midnatt. Jag är ändå glad att det blivit en förbättring mot att det i stället skulle siista bestallning klckan 21 och sedan stängt klockan 22, som det först diskuterades. Inomhus får maximalt älften av kundplatserna användas för att säkerstalla tillräckligt avstånd. För uuteserveringar räcker det med tillräckligt avstånd, där finns ingen maximal gräns i jämförelse med maximala antal gäster. Buffet- och smörgåsbord där man tar dryck och mat själv kommer inte tillåtas. Samma regler gäller i landet. Här hade jag också hoppats på mer regional frihet utgående från smittskyddsläget i oika del i landet, som är mycket olika platser, och i enlighet med den öjlighet som grundlagsutskottet gett. Irade the Talman! Regeringen har sagt att situationen kommer granskas continuerligt, första gången före midsommar. Förhopningsvis är det öjligt att man släpper på begränsningarna ytterligare om smittskyddsläget så tillåter. Begränsningarna måste hela tiden motiveras av smittskyddsläget. Här kan man också använda sig av oika regionala bestemmelser effectsom smittläget är så olika i oika delar av landet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u59	Mr President! Mr Lindé quite well described this situation that the epidemic is by no means over. Under no circumstances should such an illusion be created. When you look at today’s infection rates for the last 24 hours, there are 19 infections and all are from Uusimaa — in my own province of North Karelia there has been no infection for a month. I think it is important to continue with responsible guidance, and the results speak for it, but the illusion must not be created that this situation is over. It's good that the restaurant industry is slowly opening up. It also supports domestic tourism. There are a huge number of small and medium-sized enterprises in this sector. The sector is also a very large employer and has a lot of part-time and hourly contracts, and it is a low-paid sector. A great deal of communication has also come from the sector: people who have been laid off there for two months now have been waiting for decisions on unemployment security, and it is said that this is still several weeks away, so it is important that they get back to work and make a living through it. What is also important is that the support package for the restaurant sector and the general support package now coincide with this stage, and it will also allow workers to be fully reinstated. Of course, I regret that this regional review is still at this stage, but, as the Minister said, this issue will now come back to us in June and will be followed up on how these guidelines work. I fully understand the reasons for this solution as regards the current state of this epidemic. Congressman Kiuru here earlier brought up sporting events. I believe that this is extremely important, especially in those stadiums and in those sports where public capacity could be increased and very safely organised — quite different from that of 500 viewers. I would like to see it returned at some point because it is of the utmost economic importance, especially for the main teams.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u60	Mr President! In the course of this debate, I have been a little surprised at the comment that has been made by the representatives of the assembly, when it comes to the idea that, suddenly, restaurants should be open up to nightclubs and pubs at once without any time limits. Until now, we have been calling for the disease to be eradicated and we know that this disease has not yet been eradicated, so there is still a certain amount of caution to be taken. We also have these restrictions in other areas, that is, the restaurant sector is not the only one. Tourism, for example, is still very much limited, as are events and fairs, cultural activities and so on. We've certainly been wondering about this time. It is both experientially and researchedly known that Finnish drunk alcohol consumption focuses specifically on nighttime consumption, whether it is about homes or places to drink. This delimitation, which has now been given here, makes sense to me precisely because food restaurant activities, lunch restaurants and cafés and also dinner activities — all of this — are possible if the restaurants are allowed to be open until 11 p.m. and the drinks are available until 22 p.m. Of course, in the future, if we hope that the situation will quickly make things easier, we will be able to remove the remaining restrictions, but I think it is wise that we should now proceed cautiously step by step and then be prepared to review the situation in either direction when it comes to the next revision. What I am concerned about is this capacity of the Regional State Administrative Agencies to monitor these restrictions and obligations. There is a lot of work to be done by the Regional State Administrative Agencies now, and I think it is very important that this restaurant activity can now be monitored at this early stage. It would also be very important now to ensure that restaurants comply with the legislation that they should otherwise follow, that drunkards, for example, are not given alcohol.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u61	Mr President! On the basis of my previous work, I know very well that it is now good that this restaurant life and 23 will gradually open up, but, as Mr Räsänen said just now, at the time of 01-05, it will be the actual restaurant people who would gradually open up this restaurant life and income to entrepreneurs through it. Well, now, of course, you have to remember the fact that you have to be careful at this opening stage. I would like to ask the Minister a question in the sense that, while the restaurant hall, which is open until 23, keeps its distance on the side of the restaurant hall, have these restaurant entrepreneurs been instructed in any way so that the toilets do not become actual viral loops, because in many restaurants they are quite small. Every one of us who goes to the bathroom at the restaurant at a later time knows what the bathrooms look like many times later.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u62	Mr President! We have certainly all been very concerned about the livelihood and survival of restaurants and café operators during this exceptional period and, of course, we hope that these subsidies will now start to move rapidly from the point of view of society. But I would like each of us to carry our cards in such a way that these take-away opportunities, which have already been in use, will continue to be used even more — not just for ourselves, our children or parents, but also for grandparents, who have, or friends — so that if you have been to the restaurant once every two weeks before, then twice a week would happen to get something from there. Here, too, I would once again like to call for the contribution of every citizen who has the opportunity to do so. I also wonder if next summer — hopefully there will be a good summer Indian summer — when those terraces are very narrow on many occasions: could they spread out a little more widely so that even in the outdoors those spaces can be realized? And when this government proposal says that we can now open the food stores at 6 p.m., I wonder if the committee could see that it could be changed — open at 5 p.m. because indeed many of these operators, who are doing their work on the roads and motorways, are on the verge of stopping and hoping for an earlier opening. The Act on communicable diseases is being amended and it is good that action is being taken within the framework of the Act on communicable diseases, because it is the basic law within which action and action should have been taken and should have been taken from the outset, and we have countries where there has been no need at all to close society to such a large extent when these security measures have been swiftly implemented. Here we must also raise the criticism that this proposal is being brought forward now that the end of May is at hand and yet the situation has already been known about it since March. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also the experts from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have been asked to make statements at a very rapid pace, so it is right and reasonable that the appropriate time, sufficient time, should be allowed for reflection and also for reports and opinions to be made there. It would be hoped that in the future these would arrive at a better time, in time. Then I would like to mention — Mrs Niikko raised the issue of amusement parks — that safety aspects are absolutely essential in amusement parks. Amusement parks are outdoors, and there are many ways, ways and means to take care of distances and safety there. In Europe, where there have been far stricter restrictions than in Finland, amusement parks have already been successfully opened, and I believe that it can be done safely, ahead of the safety of children and families.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u63	Mr President! I have followed this good debate, a wide-ranging debate. One thing that drew attention to here, however, was that there is now a lot of criticism, particularly with regard to the majority, as to why it is not open entirely, and that too little is being opened now, when the criticism has generally been different.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u66	Mr President! Sometimes, in this debate, it seems that we have not had too much to drink until we have gone to the restaurant so that we have not been able to get to the restaurant to see what is happening there. Nobody's gonna care about that restaurant. That's where they go to meet people. It won't change that. If I go to a restaurant, I go exactly because I go to meet friends and talk to them, whatever the time, or whatever the influence of my alcohol. It goes so that you go there to see others, just like the young ones go to the malls or things like that at the moment. This is how it goes. It's where we go to meet people, dance and make out. That's not gonna change. I understand the concern that under the influence of alcohol not all restrictions are observed, but I am quite certain that they are not being complied with now. That's where they go, they go in line, and the bouncers can handle it just as they do in the store that people are three or two feet apart standing on the street, and they get in the way. To be honest, it doesn't really matter to me if those nightclubs don't open at all. That is not what this is about; it is about making it a little impossible for the entrepreneur to try. It does not make it worthwhile, but then it can always be said that you have your kiosk open so that you do not exorcise anything. The situation is that, as far as I'm concerned, you could shut down the nightclubs, but then you should replace it with those nightclubs. Wouldn't that make a lot more sense than keeping the entrepreneurs loose? And then, what still amazes me about this — of course, because this government proposal came quickly, I've been trying to wade this job at the same time: The situation is now that there is a time limit, which means 22 ends with sales and 23. Does this now mean traffic stations that could be open day and night? What about our own cafeteria or our own coffee shop there? Does it also apply if we have a long session? Now I'm a little distracted by this, as I said in the previous speech, that restaurants work differently — there are food restaurants, there are lunch restaurants, all these things — and that now we have only one time for everyone. Am I missing something, or have we really been thinking about this? I understand the 22-point line in some way as the idea of that nightclub business, the sale of alcohol, but I don't really understand the food restaurant business. What's it doing there, too? If it is not, then, that I have not only had the time to read it carefully enough and if it had been specified there in some form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u67	Mr President! We have had a debate today on this new situation, where society is gradually opening up and the activities of restaurants are now being opened step by step. As I said at the beginning of the debate, I believe that the essential question is that this Chamber should only provide for the kind of regulation that is absolutely necessary to prevent the spread of this virus and which is justified by the fact that it is, however, a rather heavy and exceptional course of action which directly restricts the freedom of business of these companies. This is a question of political reflection, and it has also been pointed out in this Chamber today that what measures are the right ones to take is the right ones. Mr. Speaker! However, I would like to raise a few more points which I did not raise before. A good debate has also been held here on this new Article 6 of the proposal. , where the restaurant would be obliged to draw up a new plan during these restrictive measures. Now that I have read it again in more detail, it turns out that it is written in a very deep chamber in the corridors of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, without practically asking about the practical life of entrepreneurs and operators themselves. The restaurant sector is already a very heavily regulated sector with very wide range of obligations and guidelines. Restaurants follow these instructions well and want to make sure that customers get healthy, good food and enjoy it. I think it is quite right to ask in this situation, when restaurants are in such a difficult situation, whether it is really necessary to introduce new obligations in this regard, or is it not, in fact, already the case that, with regard to all this regulation that is already in force, it could be considered sufficient to fulfil those obligations in this respect? This is also a question for the Minister, because it goes quite well with Article 6, which is now being proposed. Mr. Speaker! Finally, I would like to say what has already been said many times in this Chamber: I hope that Finland will take a step at a time towards a European alcohol policy. It would be justifiable and good: When people go to restaurants to eat, if they want to buy a bottle of wine when they leave, why not allow it? And, Minister Kiuru, why are you not going to promote this? Why would this justified change not be brought into this hall?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u68	Mr President! Restrictive measures which are considered justified shall also be complied with. What is happening now is that we will continue to impose restrictive measures in areas where there is practically no disease in a large country. It will be very questionable to follow them. The Coalition Party supports restrictive measures where justified according to the infectious disease situation. For example, according to the government, Uusimaa had to be opened when its lock, isolation, was no longer in place. The question now has to be asked: what is the argument that in the provinces of East Savo and North Karelia, where there is no corona virus, cafés and restaurants can continue to operate only on a part-time basis? I got an e-mail from a restaurant entrepreneur a few minutes ago: “Our management, our beer restaurant manager is better off. It is not a despicable diner — the term by which you repeatedly call these restaurants, bars, pubs in contempt. It is a life hole for many, it produces work in Finland, it pays huge taxes, it is one of the pillars of our society together with its colleagues. Don't kill this industry. I want you to make your speech. We understand a lot, but we do not understand how you can limit our business by closing our doors and promising compensation, which proved to be a complete torso, and there is no information about getting it either. Entrepreneurs are used to carrying risk, but the risk you have arranged was not recorded in the SWOT analyses of any entrepreneur. Now you didn't offer me a chance. You only created more question marks, created disbelief in the future, hoping that restaurants would open up. Many open up because there is no alternative, making a loss, once you have finished your inadequate and incompetent preparatory work on this matter too. Now that our industry is trying to prove itself worthy of trust, if nothing else, I would like you to call us and our kind even by the right name, and if that happens to us or any other industry operator, we could lock them up once and for all, proudly thinking that our work was even appreciated.” In such a public letter, a restaurant owner writes — not a diner, not a bar, but a beer restaurant. Mr President! I would like to ask Minister Kiuru: would you, as we appeal to the assembly, reconsider this right of sale of small breweries? The Coalition Party suggests that this should be allowed — would that be possible? — on the one hand, and on the other hand, the reduction of the value added tax on restaurants;
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u69	Mr President! I originally thought that one speech on this issue would have been enough, but there are so many things that have now arisen in this debate, but they still have to be answered briefly. I listened carefully to what Mr Heinonen said earlier. The idea was heard that this epidemic was now over in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u79	Mr President! A few more aspects of this discussion on the opening of restaurants. It is great that the take-away sale has been successful and possible throughout this epidemic period and has also created many new openings. It would suggest that these can be further developed and implemented in the future. However, this activity should not be tied at the time of the summer evenings if it is profitable for the restaurant owner. I suspect that this restriction on the number of customers is still critical to the livelihood of many restaurants, especially small ones, and it may be that this need for restaurant subsidies will continue even after the opening. However, it is a good thing that this opening is done with caution in terms of disease progression and, for example, the protection of restaurant staff and hygiene in restaurants are given a great deal of attention. Very good is to facilitate monitoring of possible infections and transmission chains by requesting contact information for a company visiting the restaurant. This will facilitate the tracing of the exposed. I think it would be worth hearing about how a similar model has worked — at least in Germany it seems that it has been used. The city of Vilnius has also made a great decision, which has facilitated the introduction of public space for the use of terraces in restaurants. I would therefore like cities in Finland to be able to take a model of this and, if it is required to facilitate the introduction of the outside space on the legislative side to make it easier, we would be prepared to introduce them as soon as possible. And, of course, we must hope for good summer weather so that this terrace activity can flourish. Allowing small breweries to sell out would also be a measure which, without financial support, would maintain domestic jobs at this point. Representative Löfström raised an important point of view for society in this whole opening debate, and that is the responsibility of the individual: if you have symptoms, you have to stay at home, and good hand hygiene must be followed as healthy. I would say that this fear raised by Mr Lindén must only move towards caution, let go of fear and move towards normal but cautiously.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u80	Mr President! Now that we are going to try opening restaurants, I see that here in Parliament many parties are trying to collect points with conflicting arguments. For example, the President of the Coalition Party, Mr Petteri Orpo, has heard a great deal about the government's choice of the way of repression during the poll hours, but when you listen to today's speeches about the guardianism of bars, you almost have to ask whether you know in the assembly what would in practice mean by the repressive strategy that you have supported. If this is what the coalition wants to do, then restaurants should be held for more than a month from the moment the hybrid strategy would be replaced with a repressive strategy, for that strategy, recommended by experts, is precisely a practical means of suppressing the virus, after which we will be able to follow the chain of infection and we will be able to open up society. As far as the government parties are concerned, I wonder why small breweries cannot be supported without spending increases to the state budget, i.e. simply through a legislative change allowing distance sales to Finnish breweries. It just doesn't make sense that you can order drinks from other EU countries, but you can't buy products from Finnish companies through distance selling. You are talking about supporting businesses in the midst of a crisis, but why are you not doing this? Mr President! We know who in the government is trying to prevent this sensible change from happening with two hands, and let us now say it out loud: it is the centre — the same party that has been holding back every time we have even talked about whether we could buy wine in a nearby store where Alko is so far away. We have talked about choosing a repressive strategy in the People's Republic of Finland. I am in favour of it myself, because in the long run it will be cheaper for society and businesses and fewer people would die, but if the government is bullheaded to move forward with a visionless hybrid strategy without a clear set of target indicators, you will try it. From an economic point of view, it is driving many entrepreneurs into a difficult situation due to opening hours and from a health point of view, because, as Mr Laakso said in the national language, people are making out at a bar even if alcohol is not sold after ten o’clock, and people are making out especially before ten o’clock if they know that bars are closing at eleven o’clock. As we understand, the hybrid strategy of this government is bad for both stopping the disease and economic recovery. Although the tantrum has lasted too long, even late decisions can begin to be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u81	Mr President! The restaurants are very different: I know how to go to meet friends and friends, I know how to get to know each other, just like Mr Laakso brought up here. And you can say that there is obviously a challenge in that conversation to keep its safety distance, on the dance floor in some kind of dance, it may be possible to do it, and then kissing it is more challenging. Everyone, of course, as before, will continue to be left with its own discretion and responsibility, and I think that it is not just the control or control of the authorities that is being called for here, but that every citizen should act responsibly. I think that each of us will certainly appreciate the accommodation and restaurant sector and its entrepreneurs and operators, and I am sure that each of us would like to return to it as soon as possible, but that will require a responsible response from each of us, of course, and that we can really stamp out this epidemic. I think and hope that the committees will carefully review this government proposal, and it is possible for the committees to bring up changes and bring improvements to this overall. Representative Lindén raised the fear well here, and really, if we think about opening up society and getting started with functions and wheels, it's overcoming fear and actually there at the roots, there in the background of the feeling of trust and security is quite essential to this kind of psychological factor. I would hope that this opening up of restaurants will also be taken in such a way as to create the sense of security and trust for citizens, so that even those who may have visited or visited restaurants or cafes less often dare to go there more often and more frequently, because in many debates and also in the assessment of how things are going to go forward, it has really come to the attention of experts that it is precisely trust and security and that it is the key factor in how the wheels are going forward. I believe that together we will get through this too, and, in view of the restaurants and the café operators, we will now open up. I hope that we will be able to open up more in the future so that there will not be a situation that goes on for a few weeks and then have to be closed again, because it would be far more disastrous than we are now going to open up. I believe that we will also have those returns for those restaurants, and we must find ways to get that return for them as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u82	Mr President! Congressman Lindén, you're here to twist the message of others. If I used Prime Minister Sanna Marin's language, I'd say you... — Mr President, when it is not allowed to be said in this Chamber, I will not. — But I made it clear that the restrictive measures, which are considered justified, are also being complied with, and I explicitly stated that the assembly is in favour of the restrictive measures, which are justified by the situation in which they are infected. We have also put forward regionally, for example, the lifting of the closures of cafes and lunches as early as May, and we have similarly suggested that some measures might need to be tightened up. We have highlighted, for example, the use of breathing protectors, as is the case in many other countries of the world, in public transport, in shops. For us, it could be quite justified, for example, in Uusimaa, within Ring Three. This remote sales situation in small breweries is interesting. That has been supported today by the Greens in this Chamber. Now it seems that the centre is opposed to this not moving forward. I hope you will once again consider allowing the sale of small breweries at a distance, as well as allowing the sale of wines from restaurants and this calculation of VAT on restaurants. This is where Mr Niikko gave a good speech on the bigger events. We now have a large number of events hanging on for August, and the government is expected to draw up guidelines on what needs to be done about these events. Then there are these 500-person restrictions, of which Mr Kosonen has said that they do not apply to sporting events and that, as early as June, sporting events can be organised with 500-person restrictions. We should now look at the model of other European countries, for example, where events have been organised in such a way that there may have been more than one region in the same event. For example, in summer raves, in various sports competitions, or in jokkistivat, it would be easy to do so so that the pit area or a particular area would be its own 500 people and then there would be two or three separate stands separated from each other. These questions are now being considered and asked whether summer food can be arranged there if this limit is exceeded, together with the organisers and viewers, or whether a car race, a rally, a jogging race or something else can be arranged in such a way that all areas are limited to 500 people. I would also like the government to be able to give guidance on this and on these major events in August, because the situation is currently that the arrangements are moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u83	Mr President! I asked for the floor in advance when I thought that this would develop between Mr Heinonen and myself. I have heard ten representatives from the People's Party here, and of course there is a spectrum of opinions in the major parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u86	Mr President! There have been a lot of good speeches here, and I would like to say that I think that the general approach of moving forward with caution is sensible at this point. Then my second comment relates to this matter of taking away. This is not the case, which means that the legislation that is now remains the same. I very much welcome the fact that many restaurants have taken on losses in order to make up for the take-away business. That is a great thing and we, as consumers, can continue to support it. Then I would like to say, with regard to Mr Tynkkysen and also Mr Heinonen, that there have now been false claims that the centre is blocking the sale of small breweries. I can tell you that the Centre thinks in such a way that, in this situation, when we have had this kind of small brewing culture and companies created over the past few years, we understand their perception that we should also be able to sell out because other countries companies can do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u91	Mr President! I would also like to correct the statements here that the Coalition Party would like all the restrictions on this to remain open without any responsibility. Of course, this is not the case. There is a purposeful desire to spread such a message. The Coalition Party has always wanted to have controlled restrictions so that at the same time the supply chains can be kept under control, and that is why this hybrid strategy of the government is a good strategy if it is actually implemented. And if it is done, as it should be, we could also open up more restrictively and so that people are taken into account and trusted in people — up to now people have followed the recommendations. And if you think of restaurants, then there is also a great responsibility for those entrepreneurs, the restaurant operator, that everything goes as it should in their business. I do not want to question it, but I have every confidence that they are responsible actors. However, it is also a matter of their livelihood. But I have specifically proposed that this element of protection be added to this government strategy at the beginning. In other words, it would put the focus on everyone's own activities, on the personal way that every worker and citizen can prevent infection. It can be accompanied by facial masks in some places, it involves good hand hygiene, associated safety distances and other things that have been displayed here. If we are able to put these into human understanding well, then we do not need such extensive restrictions and can well be dismantled. And I would also like to raise this matter of nightclubs, when it has been thrown here that the assembly demands it. There's no such thing as an assembly demanding the opening of nightclubs. All we have said is that if we do it by law so that they can't do it, we have to take it into account so that they can get support for it. But this is a misunderstanding, and I want to make it right: we have not been calling for nightclubs to be opened, but for people to be able to meet each other safely. Surely there is also a great need. The main thing is to take care of these safe conditions. And a sense of security is of paramount importance, as has been the case here, so let's have the courage to go. When everyone takes care of their property, we also dare to look for such services and dare to seek care or restaurants, which is what it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u92	Mr President! After all, this debate has been going on for two and a half hours now, how many times is it going to get alcohol and sell it out or sell it in or where you can get it, as long as you can get it. Quite a lot of criticism has been directed at how freely people are allowed to drink and how late. As far as Mr Laiho's speech is concerned, Mr Laiho, you yourself mentioned an hour and a half ago that it would be patronising if restaurants were closed at eleven o'clock. So it didn't go through quite so easily.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u97	The Minister has asked for a five-minute reply, but I understood from the previous President that when the debate is over and you stop, the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u98	Mr President! I think Mr Laiho said very well about this group position on nightclubs, but the fact is that by this decision nightclubs will remain closed, and it is clear that compensation will certainly be needed for them in the future. Isn't that right, Minister? The second was this epidemiological assessment which has now been here. What's it based on that these guys aren't allowed to sign any more after 10:00 p.m. Is that an estimate based on some scientific research? Is that some kind of expert evaluation? I think that this is something that really smells like a political decision, and I would like to hear why it is at this particular time of 10 p.m. A lot has been said here for small breweries, for the sale of small breweries — the centre, the greens and so on, many parties have spoken for it. The term must now be very specific, and this also comes to Mrs Vehviläinen: are these small breweries or craft breweries? In fact, craft breweries are in the previous Alcohol Act, and the annual work of less than 500,000 litres is spoken of, whereas in small breweries it is about 15 million litres. So I would also like to know from the Minister that, when there are rumours about small breweries, is it really the right to sell out small breweries or the right to sell out craft breweries. The Coalition Party is in favour of small breweries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u99	Mr President! Referring to Mr Nikon's comment on my speech: I am surprised to see food restaurants and nightclubs in the same category. However, food restaurants are clearly such that they go to dinner and meet friends during that evening. Clubs are a different kind of activity, and that is also very social, and at this point it makes sense that nightclub activities are outside of this, only to be taken into account in these subsidies. However, clearly the food restaurant activity is its own, and I do not think it makes sense to restrict it if, by the way, account is taken of safety and health there by means of guidelines.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u100	Mr President! The fact that these proposals are being put into effect until the end of October, i.e. more than five months from now, remains rather small in this debate. Of course, it has been said that they can be considered on a regional or temporal basis, but I would like to ask again: what should happen in Eastern Savo, North Karelia or Åland with regard to the disease situation, so that they can overcome regionally these barriers to restrictive measures? So now small cafés, lunches and others are still being ordered to operate at half the power but at full cost. This is not the way it will work, Minister, and this is not the way it will work. It is totally unreasonable to put this restriction into effect until the end of October, more than five months from now. With this in mind, companies are already cancelling events planned for the autumn, events that, for example, are planned in food restaurants, in a way that is as safe as it is, when such a law is in force and the style is that even in disease-free areas these restrictions are not ready to be dismantled. I have to ask you if you in the government understand the consequences of these decisions. As a result, many small cafés, restaurants, food restaurants and lunch restaurants will go bankrupt during these five months, if it is not enough to remove these yokes, that the area is disease-free, as is currently the case with Eastern Savo, North Karelia and Åland. There have been justifiable speeches. For example, Mr Laakso has asked why, for example, these restrictions apply in the cafés of road-side gas stations, while, on the other hand, there is this timetable for them to be closed for the night. Many truck drivers, public transport, the transport sector in general has called for, since they too could return to normal everyday life, because these gas stations on the side of the road are their main points from the point of view of rest breaks, but also from the point of view of washing, sanitary facilities and others, and now that they are imposed for five months in the evening to continue to be fixed, this is disproportionate. The consequences of this decision will be a large number of bankruptcies and a great deal of unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u101	Mr President! They asked why restrictions are being made and why you can't do whatever you want. Many people who are at risk are still included in these different recommendations and have to limit their lives to a great deal. Younger people, too, who have a basic disease, have to spend their time at home in practice, so you have to understand that you have to think about the lowest social disadvantage and, on the other hand, the most effective effect and the discovery of such combinations. And that is why we are now trying to regulate situations in which a lot of people are gathered together in such a way that they can safely operate there so that society does not have to live endlessly in a situation where one million people, elderly people or others at risk — even more, depending on how they are calculated — are forced to limit their own lives. This is a situation in which everyone has to take a little responsibility. And of course it is desirable that once we have the testing method, quantity and control even further, with the help of this mobile application hopefully, we can open up society more and more. But as we have heard here, from the mouth of the assembly, quite a number of times, that action should be taken here... Like Sweden, you referred, for example, to restaurants. When you referred to Sweden, that means that you have now turned this completely over, or you are completely illogical in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u104	Mr President! In addition to facilitating the regulation of restaurant activities, there is currently a proposal for restaurant subsidies in Parliament, i.e. a Government proposal 67/2020. A few words about this whole is in order to understand the scale and overall nature of this regulation. Through Business Finland and Ely Centres, Parliament's amending budget has allocated EUR 1.2 billion of direct business support and hundreds of millions of loan-based support. After all, these subsidies are only part of all the aid granted to companies. Ordinary people, laid off and unemployed, have received virtually nothing. Through Business Finland, the match resolution of the support put into the distribution has been low. The aid has been reduced to companies with the resources to launch projects either effectively or on paper. Business Finland, for example, has now distributed some EUR 300 million of aid of EUR 800 million, which means that EUR 500 million has not yet been distributed. The project search was opened in March with the guidance of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Economic Affairs, according to which Business Finland had to follow a loose interpretation, the key was speed. Then, when it began to emerge how unfairly the subsidies had been targeted, at the end of April the guidelines were somewhat modified. The targeting of this massive enterprise aid still raises questions. The question of why the faucet was opened so recklessly without any consideration as to its effectiveness and, above all, why it has not been closed down and in practice not even tightened up, even though 500 million, or most of the aid, are still not distributed. Is there any reason to allocate these 500 million to something else, above all to help ordinary people who really need support and companies who are in difficulty? This question is also justified because, when we are talking about the future of the restaurant industry and of the restaurant workers, it is a fact that the support for restaurants will be rather modest if it is proportionate to the generous and deliberately uncontrollable distribution of enterprise aid mentioned above. The Government's proposal in the Parliament, the Government's proposal 67, amounts to EUR 123 million. It is divided into compensation for the reasonable costs required by Parliament and support for re-employment, which is therefore an additional subsidy. This support for restaurants favours large companies in the sector, despite the cuts built on the aid. For example, a company that has devolved its group structure into separate companies can receive support for all its companies. These large companies have also applied for and received significant development aid and financial aid mentioned above. Their bargaining power with regard to operating space rents shall be significant. In fact, many of these
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u111	Well, now, Mr President-in-Office, we're well over it. Mr Laiho and then the Minister will finally be allowed to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u112	Mr President! I would like to make amends here when it was mentioned that the vote would be on the Swedish line somehow. That is not at all true. One speech here said that Swedish restaurant regulations, restrictions, it has been said that restaurants can be open but they must prevent coronavirus infections by monitoring the instructions of the authorities and by means of self-monitoring and risk management, and that an infectious doctor can ban nutrition if the movement has violated these rules. This is a completely different matter. Secondly, Mr Holopainen here was concerned that the government's hybrid strategy tools are not yet in sufficient use, and I ask here: is this really the case, Minister Kiuru, that the tools — testing and, of course, this application and other tools — are not yet in place and that is why we are still facing these strict restrictions when we are not yet prepared to manage this epidemic with regard to the tools of this administration? The situation of the elderly and those at risk is challenging, and they certainly need to be protected, and they need to be taken into account in the crackdown on restrictions, but it cannot be so much that we make everyone suffer if one group suffers. They must be protected, and I fully agree with them, and I have spoken on their behalf, but it does not deal with imposing restrictions on someone else. We can monitor the development of this disease situation, for example, by means of an infectivity rate and by means of the development of the number of infections, and on the basis of them, then make changes in direction and evaluate the situation. If these measures are followed from security intervals and other recommendations, then we will also be able to reach those sources of infection. Schools could be opened, and there were no problems, and there are these security distances. The infections have risen, of course they have been in the past, and they have only come up now, but if we control this in such a way that we have groups — how many — and we observe security intervals, then we will be able to track those who have been in that same state. This strategy should then be followed in practice and also in areas other than education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u113	And now there's Congressman Holopainen on the list. If we take that one more time, then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u114	Thank you, Mr President. As I pointed out, of course we still have something to develop. For example, this mobile app is not yet in use, which may make it easier to see and know better afterwards if a person has been in the vicinity of a person with a confirmed infection. I personally hope, at least, that this will progress quickly and that there will be funding for it. Any such action that can be taken will enable and facilitate this situation, as well as the fact that all people have the knowledge of testing because they need to be tested. Indeed, not everyone who could go there necessarily wants or dares to go to the tests at the moment. At least, as far as I understand it, not all these tests were in use a moment ago, even though there was test capacity, when at least I myself wondered what was the method used in Iceland, for example, to control testing even longer than we used in Finland. They have such a practice, some model there is, which has also helped to make this testing work pretty well. Of course, I personally hope that all such good models and international practices will be introduced now that we have the clear strategy in which we want to test and track, isolate and manage. I am sure that this will also require further attention, given the fragmentation of the healthcare field between private, public, municipal and hospital districts. At least I see for myself that this is why we need quite clear guidelines and operating models for every aspect, both for this testing and, for example, for this guidance for restaurants. That even if it would be terribly good for everyone to act responsibly, it would then put restaurant entrepreneurs in a completely unequal position if they were left to such self-monitoring and some then acted responsibly — as we saw now, some were, and many had, closed down restaurants before it was mandatory, but then some were still open. It is known that not everyone can be affected, and it cannot be assumed that all entrepreneurs can be affected if we do not have clear guidelines, and then there will also be fair rules of play within the industry. And that's what we're doing now. I hope this sort of clarity would also be acceptable for the majority, but clearly it is not the case with this restaurant issue. Otherwise, of course, you have taken responsibility for the violent prevention of this infection situation, which is a bit contradictory in this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u115	And now Minister Kiuru. The five minutes previously promised will not be enough for all the answers, but you can go well beyond that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u116	Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to finally comment on this debate. I've been waiting almost three hours for this shift. Firstly, it must be said that this big picture of Parliament will be distributed. I think that this debate has been very healthy in that we, as Finns, have achieved this together, clearly, because the disease situation is that the infection rate in our country is between 0.6 and 0.85. It tells us that, in fact, we have managed to constrain this epidemic. In practice, we have prevented infection. Today's debate is about the amendment of the Act on Disease Control. Today, there are no amendments to other laws, but today we are dealing with the amendment of the Act on Diseases. The spirit of the Act on communicable diseases is that we protect people, that there should be no infection, so I believe that, in this situation of disease, when we have the opportunity to loosen these tough restrictions, which have been discussed a great deal, it is undoubtedly clear that restaurants have a role to play. The examples of the world, but also the transmission chains that started in Finland, come from restaurants. It's a fact. That is why we cannot stand by and watch the way in which restaurants are opened. The uncontrollable opening of restaurants, which would take place on 1 June, is not justified. It is absolutely essential that we continue to wear the sordino. That is absolutely necessary. Personally, as Minister of Health, I am not prepared to suggest to anyone that this is a joke. This disease lives in a cluster. These clusters can happen in Pori, Ilomantsi, Helsinki or Sodankylä. You don't have to play with this. That is why I think the wise words of the chairman of the committee are important that we now take a controlled step. This is precisely a controlled step. From the point of view of the precautionary principle, it is a very smart and controlled step. We're trying to get through this new normal way eventually back to normal. I think it's pretty smart. And in that respect, I have not been prepared to present a solution for the opening of restaurants completely out of control, and it is good that there is very little of that support in Parliament. As far as Mr Niiko's good idea of the fact that restaurants play a central role in the fight against the virus is concerned, I think you are quite right. Restaurants are therefore at the heart of what Mrs Suomela here gave very good evidence that restaurants around the world have been the starters of these clusters of diseases — not alone, but there is clear evidence that restaurants can also be at worst coronals. In this situation of disease, where we are now pressing down these infections, we cannot afford, as you can see, to have long chains of disease. We must be able to return to normal through this temporary new normal. Unfortunately, the late hour for restaurants — even from the point of view of researchers — only creates hop risks. And yes, this must also be understood in Parliament. The nighttime intoxication situation may be combined with sociality in such a way that a large number of people meet very close together. And in this situation of disease, this risk must be taken into account. It increases the risk of coronavirus transmission. If we are here to prevent this virus, we cannot uncontrollably open restaurants. Well, Mr Harjanne summed up this debate very well: yes, there is a fight against a serious disease, it is actually being prevented. That is why this debate on guardianship does not fit this line. I looked more closely at the definition of ‘hallowing’. It seems that guardianship is often used as a metaphor to mean overly caring for another person — overly caring for another person. In this case of infection, can anyone be given a chance to endanger people’s health or their safety and to think that it would bring back the restaurant industry? That would risk people not having the courage to go to restaurants at all. Yes, this is precisely what we are trying to do right now to restore that sense of security by doing this in a controlled and safe way. That is why our starting point is that we take care of the safety of our customers as well as of others. And raising health and safety to the very core is important here, through this own plan. And we must remember that these measures encourage us not to put anyone at risk. And this should work. Well, now there was a long and multi-generational discussion about this guardianship. Personally, I believe that this continuation, which is being done in a controlled way through a new normal path towards normality, is a necessary need. From the point of view of risk management, this is absolutely essential. Not all activities in society from the point of view of opening up are the same at all. That is why responsibility and trust go hand in hand with this proposal. Every two weeks, we have the opportunity to assess how we, as a society, have succeeded — every two weeks. Even before Midsummer, it's the first time it's been evaluated. I am ready to have a debate on whether to loosen up and loosen up immediately if there is a chance. But instead, there were a number of parliamentarians here who made a big deal out of this — the vice-president of the Assembly said quite frankly that we do not have the ability to understand the restaurant sector. I do think it's a rather unusual view. Yes, with the restaurant industry, the government has sought to find a way out that would also implement this spirit of the Act on communicable diseases. [Sinuhe-Wallin-tribe] Then there was an active debate on the epidemic situation. Here Congressman Kausto of the National Coalition said that the epidemic does not affect Finland as a whole. I consider this to be an absolutely impossible argument. This applies to the whole of Finland as long as such an international pandemic revolves around the planet. This applies to Finland as long as we do not live in a vacuum. This powder keg can, listen, explode anywhere in Finland, and it is in our interest to get Finland started so that we can keep these cases really low. It creates security and stability for people to dare to go and leave. Then there was this comparison: is this in restaurants the same as in shops, as Mr Mäkelä had this debate here. Congressman Laiho pointed out that... You had somewhere else to go. I can’t remember what place it was when you compared — schools, yes. These are different things. Yes, I have to say that in restaurants we recognize certain types of risks that are different from those of others. In other words, maintaining distances and good order is the goal we are going to pursue, and we are now seeking new, better results, and we are also committing the sector to this. I do have the confidence at the moment that the industry understands this and is prepared to do a lot of things for us to gain confidence in it in Finland, and it will also bring a good disease situation if we do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u119	Let's keep this conversation going.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u120	President! I'm sure we've been through a lot of things here today, but I'm afraid I've had some tasks that I haven't been able to get here before. In fact, on this point, I am thinking precisely of the two-week evaluation period, as it were, when we always look at where the situation has developed. This is certainly wise in this situation, but perhaps I would still have asked the Minister, if it has not already come up here, how will this assessment be carried out? Of course we are following the evolution of the epidemic and so forth, but what are the figures that are being taken up, or what can we say, then perhaps some other criteria, which then consider that we are going in some direction and now, for example, need to tighten up or something like that? I believe that the public is well aware of this, that when the situation is still critical and the epidemic and the virus has not disappeared anywhere in our midst, these measures will continue. Perhaps one could say that in this communication towards the citizens it is good to emphasise that we all here are restricting our own behaviour to each other's benefit. Perhaps passing through this message would help those risk groups and, on the other hand, over 70-year-olds, some of whom have felt that they are somehow in this particular category, could you say, even though everyone here is making different kinds of restrictions in their own lives? In particular, these restrictions, which have affected people over 70 years of age and at risk, have been for their own good. It is good that the government has improved its run, so to speak, but I believe that, in this situation when we start opening up society, it should be emphasised that we are all responsible for limiting our own conduct to the benefit of each other. But, indeed, if the Minister still has the opportunity to respond: what are the criteria, or if there are certain figures or similar, to be considered every two weeks, is there a need to go in some direction to change the restrictions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u121	Mr President! For three hours now, Minister, we have been discussing and asking questions here. Of course, there were more of them than you could reply to, but it would be very important for the government and the minister to tell us at least how this ban on public events of more than 500 people will be interpreted once it has been announced that it will be in force until the end of July. However, the TEM, who now decides on tourism, has said that there is no such limit for the tourist industry, for example if you go somewhere and there are some camping sites or some other events at the same time, but then the avi determines that such amusement park events are one of the prohibited events, i.e. that they must not exceed the number of 500 people. For example, the Managing Director of Linnanmäki has now interpreted this way that they can open Linnanmäki on 12 June and take as many people in as they think they can safely implement it. Who is right, avi or the CEO of Linnanmäki, when he interprets this government line? This is very important information for all amusement park owners as well as for others. There are a lot of summer events, such as events such as the Summer and Suviseuros, where the population can be large, and they will certainly experience it if they want it to be tourism-related activities that cannot be regulated by the avi. This revised information, which I have checked today, has come from the head of the licensing area: these amounts cannot be exceeded. If you'd give me an answer to this, I'd appreciate it. The second question concerns the fact that the infection rate in Finland is between 0.6% and 0.85%, that this is an estimate. What is the basis for this assessment? Where is this information because I have not found such information on the THL website? The informal assessment of the THL has been — at least according to the information given to me last week — that the current 6400 infections have to be multiplied by three in order to obtain an estimate of how many percent of the population has been infected. This is unofficial information, but if the government has official information, it would be good to publish it, because it is very important that how many people report this number of infected people, in the estimate of how much of the population has been infected. As I mentioned in my previous speech, Minister, I would say that the tests did not provide this answer, it was very uncertain. Where is such sure knowledge of how many of the population may have been infected, or does it exist at all? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u122	Mr President! This must be said — now that the Minister has also mentioned it, and the representatives of the government party have quite often spoken about it — that it is now being said that it is as if we here wanted to see the restaurants completely freed up. I began to wonder if at least I myself have not spoken that way, and for a long time I wondered if someone else was speaking. In my opinion, no one here has proposed that the restaurants should be completely liberalised, but what I am saying now is precisely that what is in our interest is to stop selling it at 10 p.m. I would even see that if we were to think cautiously, we would pull out a little wallet and replace it with those nightclubs and let the nightclubs still be closed, because it is likely that the restaurants will be the sector from which the so-called coronal goes if they leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u125	Mr President! It is precisely so, as Mr Laakso has pointed out here, that there are different restaurants and there are also different events, and it should also be possible to tailor the guidelines specifically for that. That is why I myself have spoken about these guidelines, where we also give responsibility to these entrepreneurs in the events or restaurants themselves, because this survival of the entire pandemic is such a challenge for Finland as a whole that we cannot control everything. I would like to ask about these regional government agencies, because at least there is no answer to it here yet. The question was raised here about the adequacy of resources, but I myself would like to ask that, now that it is required that entrepreneurs make this plan about how they are now preventing these infections in their activities there, so how is it now to ensure that entrepreneurs across Finland are treated equally and equally, when we know that there are differences in these interpretations of the Regional State Administrative Agency, at least in the social and health sector — some of which are interpreted more rigorously and in some cases less easily. In what way has the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health planned to ensure that it follows these uniform guidelines that there will be no such regional inequality in relation to others, if it is intended that nationally these rules are the same for all? Of course, I personally believe that, regionally, we could also look at the situation separately and assess it in accordance with the situation in the region concerned. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u126	Secretary Kiuru, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u127	Thank you, Chairman! First of all, this avi question, that's what was asked. Avi works in our field in many of the tasks of this amendment to the Act on communicable diseases. Avi has now, so to speak, reached the point, and that is the control. The way in which the aid will be implemented — whether it is the public authorities on the side of the infectious disease law or the alcohol law side — is, in my opinion, the internal issue of how these resources will be allocated there, but it is also clear that additional resources will also be needed at this rate. The fact is that a lot of supervision has come to the doors, and we may not even know how much of this control has come about. With regard to these guidelines, which have been given in many matters, yes, the avi has given these more precise and detailed instructions, and I think it has been good that we have had an authority that has been able to give more detailed instructions, in any case they are needed. An example of this is the Särksenniemi or any other similar event or activity: then there is also a need for a regional authority that can give these instructions. The authorities responsible for communicable diseases by municipality, i.e. the senior official responsible for communicable diseases, have also been responsible for these activities in that respect. But when you look at the field, a pretty small office goes there, and it is quite obvious that the adequacy of resources, too, must be considered in the long run. Equal guidelines are a fundamental issue. We have also been concerned about this, that six more can then make these instructions so that they can be interpreted on an equal footing throughout Finland. Of course, regional situations vary, but there is a lot of similarity that needs to be taken into account. And yes, in these guidelines, which have been adopted, the aid is absolutely crucial for the debate on how to comply with the Act on communicable diseases, among other things. Thank you, on my own behalf, for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-19-ps-74.u128	Mr President! Although the Minister is now about to leave, the last speech must now be made only in so far as there was no answer to the question. Of course, if the Minister cannot say it directly, then I also understand the need to clarify that point. But the avi had announced on its own website that until the end of May the amusement parks were banned, so that they could not be kept open, and now the government has held a press conference at the beginning of May that this 500-person restriction does not apply to amusement parks. And yet now that the avi has said that it hurts, which one of us is the word here: will it be decided by the avi or by the government’s press conference? This is very important because almost 600 summer workers are currently being recruited in Linnanmäki, for example. Many amusement parks seek staff and use resources to open it up, and now, if it is not allowed to be carried out, then they will end up, in a way, like Black Pekka, when the expenses came but the customers did not come. Everyone understands that big amusement parks do not open if there are fewer than 500 people, customers. In that sense, I am sure that this answer will come from the government, hopefully during this day, because at least this issue of Linnanmäki has come up to me today and many other amusement parks and many other opportunities really want to know whether it will be able to give it permission or not and on what basis. In any case, if someone receives permission and another does not receive permission to cross that 500-person limit at the event, then the constitutional question arises as to why not everyone is in the same position and value as to whether they can limit them to action so that they are not seriously dangerous in terms of the spread of this virus. However, I doubt it very much if there are more than 500 opportunities: if there is about less than one percent of the population carrying the virus and there are potential infectious agents, it is clear that one in 100 people can easily infect several people at any such public event.
