ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 14/2020 vp. The general debate on this matter ended at the plenary session on 17 June 1920. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u2	Mr President! I'm going to make a motion for an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u3	Yes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u5	Do you have any support?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u6	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u7	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u8	Mr President! At that first reading, we went over this matter in some detail, and it was only a sad situation that no members of the Administrative Committee were present at the time. In this connection, I asked whether the committee's hearing raised the question of whether these so-called cases of anchor children have occurred in Finland in this decade and whether they are now showing growth or decline, for example. As such, I personally support this government proposal and believe that it is a logical consequence in the sense that, at the moment, even in child welfare, this age limit for aftercare has been raised to 25. Of course, it must be noted that under no circumstances do all children who come to Finland as minors always fall within the scope of child protection measures, but it is really important that the integration of these children and young people into Finland is going well and that they are integrated into Finnish society, and in that sense these support measures are important. Indeed, if there are people on the Administrative Committee here, I would be happy to hear whether this so-called "anchored children" challenge came up in this debate, which has been raised in some decades, when it has been said that there have been cases in Finland, for example, a situation that may have been deliberately sent a young person to Finland and family reunification has taken place. Since in some cases Finland has considered that this has been the reason for not having to issue a residence permit, and then in others it has been considered that it is in the best interests of the children that this residence permit should be issued, if there are people in the committee, then I would be happy to hear more about this. Mr President! I personally am in favour of moving this government's proposal forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u9	Mr President! This amendment to the Act on the Promotion of Integration was already the subject of an in-depth debate. This has been compared with raising the age limit for child welfare aftercare. After all, that legal amendment was made during the last parliamentary term for children who are clients of child welfare and was justified by the fact that it was in itself. Now we are extending this same right to those who come to Finland as minor asylum seekers. It is important that the integration of minors with regard to asylum seekers goes well and that they are brought here as members of society. I personally would see it as important, however, to think about these extensions from the perspective of children and the perspective of their social services, from the point of view of child protection, and not from the point of view of whole groups. In this context, I would also like to point out that it is very unfortunate that non-urgent laws are being brought here for our approval. Since we have a limited practice of expert consultation in the committees, we have distance consultations and, at least for the other committees, limited expert consultations, it is unreasonable for legislative proposals to be brought here which are not urgent, corona-related, as has been agreed in principle. As such, parliamentaryism seems to be realised in some areas, but in some cases it is not.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u10	Mr President! Mrs Essayah raised an important issue, and I hope that we will get some answers to it today, and also Mr Laiho, who spoke about a gentleman or gentleman's agreement of this kind in Parliament, said that there will be no more than urgent issues for Parliament during the corona period. This should be answered, and the chairman of the parliamentary group of the largest government party, Mr Antti Lindtman, will take a look at it. What has been the reason for the corona's desire to bring this matter before Parliament on an urgent basis and also through a limited consultation and then, I understand, with a limited vote? In what way does this matter relate to the corona and to the fact that this keeps the rules of parliamentaryism stretched or even shrinking here in Parliament? I would like an answer to that. Or, in my opinion, this should be postponed to the period after the interest rate. It would be a right and fair to all other matters of fundamental importance which have not been brought here within the period of derogation from this interest rate. I hope we get an answer to that. I think it might be all right and good. It has a connection to this child welfare post-care facility that was performed last season. I would also like to ask the members of the Administrative Committee about this opinion of the Audit Committee last season: the Audit Committee proposed major changes to integration, including working life links, speed and greater accountability, and in fact Parliament adopted 11 tough, demanding positions in the context of that report. In what way have these issues been raised and discussed here, when integration legislation has been discussed by Parliament? I'll be happy to wait for your representative. Lindtman is aware of the reasons why it has been sought to bring this matter into Parliament during the exceptional period, with special arrangements and as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u11	Mr President! Perhaps for Mr Essayah at the outset: This problem of anchor children is not directly linked to this bill. A more relevant consideration may be the fact that a significant proportion of people coming to Finland as a minor asylum seeker are actually of adult age, which is revealed in these age tests. Immigration to Finland is too much harmful immigration. This would not have to be the case. This situation is the result of a wrong policy. The exploitation of the asylum system is easy and attractive. On the other hand, no integration is required. There is a lot of talk about integration, but it is not measured by meaningful criteria, such as the development of dependency on support. I can see why we don't measure. The reality to be measured is a harsh place. In the capital region, almost half of the income support is paid to foreigners. This is so fucked up. Kela has become an international institute and Finland has become a global social welfare office. In key humanitarian groups, Afghans, Somalis and Iraqis, the situation does not improve even for the second generation born here. Integration studies ask the arrivals how they enjoy themselves in Finland. What is it like when social security runs, interpretation services play and are free to engage in cultural practices that are characteristic of the country of origin? With the Black Lives Matter hysteria, the native population has gone about bowing down to the arrivals and apologizing for their existence — as a person feels noble. With the services and benefits that Finland offers, Finland attracts harmful immigration. This change of law is not a big thing in itself, but it is one part of a coherent continuum in which the already generous and blue-eyed system is made more generous and blue-eyed. It is also a question of the credibility of the asylum system in the eyes of the taxpayer. If legislation treats bearded men as children, it should not be surprised that citizens are talking about bearded children. Mr President! I propose that the draft law be rejected on grounds of objection to the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u12	Mr President! I, too, would like to begin by wondering that there were only urgent legislative proposals relating to corona in this Chamber, as Prime Minister Marin strongly testified a few weeks ago in the box, but this law is now under discussion, which is at least odd. The cost implications of this law are completely unclear. Around 650 people have been thrown out of the hat, but in fact we currently have about 2000, could we say now that young people — I think 25 years old are adults — are coming under this law? This has been largely justified by equality, since the age of child welfare was raised to 25, but what does an immigrant and a child welfare client have to do with themselves? I don't see anything. In other words, in this country a Finnish young man is allowed to be excluded at all costs, as we now have such special groups that are being taken, but there is no room for a Finnish youth. And I cannot understand how this will promote that equality, because we have plenty of young adults in this country who are not clients of child welfare but who are not doing very well and who need support. They are satisfied with this adult social work in social welfare, which in this case too would have been in use, but the Green Left government, with the support of the centre, wanted this to be extended to immigrants now. Now to prioritization: In this country I have recently received more calls from parents of mentally disabled children. These mentally disabled people do not have access to housing units because there are no staff there, there can be no staff there when there is no money in our country, but for some reason there is always money for one group. I think this is embarrassing. And as far as integration is concerned, last week the Foundation for the Development of the Municipal Sector published a study which concluded that integration should be measured with more than the money spent on it, as has now been the case. And now that racism and discrimination have been a great deal in recent debates and headlines, no one has ever thought that it is precisely this type of legislative proposal of this kind, which brings more subsidies and services to immigrants because of immigration, can even increase it. Our immigration policy is wrong, and apparently it can get crazier. This is, in itself, a long line from the Green Left, but I am amazed at the fact that there is support for such a thing from the assembly and from the centre. Open up, ladies and gentlemen, your eyes. — And I am very much in favour of:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u13	Mr President! I mean, we've had our eyes open all this time. [of the Group of Independent Finns : Jammock!] This is not really a subjective benefit or some massive service package that has been heard at some point around this issue. On the other hand, this is now a good political opportunity for the right people to make that policy with regard to immigration, although, as Mrs Halla-aho said, there is no huge issue at stake. Nor do I believe that this is a major attraction for those who come here. I myself think that no one is going here to Finland because we are now continuing integration measures until the age of 25.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u14	Mr President! I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that, here, Mr Essayah said that there was also a link with the anchor children, and it was said that there was no link, so I say that there is also a link with the anchor children. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u16	Mr President! This proposal as such is quite a small point in the law, but it may, of course, be of great importance to the individual who comes within its sphere, and I personally at least welcome the fact that no person who has received or is a Finnish citizen is allowed to enter the situation of being completely excluded from society — an excellent speech from it earlier — and, in particular, the fact that everyone has hope also gives the opportunity to integrate into society. What is different, then, is the basis on which, for example, asylum is granted in this country. It is not as if this bill has anything to do with itself, and I do not think it is very appropriate to speak here in the Chamber in such a way as to say that, for example, black people are, in principle, all asylum seekers or even immigrants. Many are Finnish citizens and are just as valuable, not just for citizenship, as any of us are. I think that the kind of speech that is used for such a bill, as if it were a problem, makes it particularly challenging how people may view it. They imagine that this too is a major issue when it was perhaps given the impression that it would be like giving positive discrimination to a group at the expense of another — even though this change of law is not the case at the moment. It is in each of us's interest that people coming to Finland, especially those staying in Finland, who receive a residence permit here and possibly later Finnish citizenship, will find their place and work through education as quickly as possible. It is therefore certainly appropriate to look at our integration legislation as a whole again, to improve it. I think this was also the will of all parties. If I recall the report by the Audit Committee on Integration, it was unanimous, as I recall. All parties considered that the integration system in Finland is currently not good enough. Finland, Finnish society, at the moment, in the light of statistics — and Mrs Halla-aho is right that statistics are not flattering — unfortunately largely integrate into social security, and this should not be the case. This is something we need to change, to think about what it takes to be able to learn a language, integrate into society and find work as soon as possible when you have come here and get permission to stay.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u18	Mr President! I wonder what has come of this discussion and speeches here when it comes to young people's subjective... Or this change of law here is not necessarily a subjective right or a factor of attraction. This is a question of equality. Let us keep these young people, if they are to be excluded, involved in activities and in the construction of society, so that we can get them involved. I don't know why this has come to trial, but I have such a way that the work that comes before me must be done and done carefully and well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u23	Mr President! It is imperative that we take this opportunity to prove that we are mainly integrating social security and social work there, so should we not make a particular effort to see that language training and social teaching are in order and not to bring such service menus, quite large service options, to a particular group. And when it comes to equality, I cannot understand why this is not presented to all under 25-year-olds living in Finland if equality is to be desired. Then I would like to draw attention to the fact that the word ‘vulnerable group’ flashed here. It is interesting,in some of the discussions,that a Now try to decide whether it is just a vulnerable group or then a savior of the entire nation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u24	Mr President! Representative Viljanen spoke for a long time about equality. I believe that Finns broadly support the fact that the same laws, rights and privileges apply to all Finnish citizens in the same way. The problem is that a system is being created in Finland whereby people who come from elsewhere receive services and benefits that are not available to Finnish citizens. In that sense, appealing to equality is somewhat confusing, because many of us do not get any free housing and similar services provided in the name of integration and other similar systems to those who come from elsewhere. However, I believe that the whole point of the debate is that in Finland all citizens should be equal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u25	Mr President! We still have to take this. Yes, I still believe that this is a vulnerable group of young people who have come here from their homeland, who certainly have many difficulties in adapting to this society and managing here. This is not about a huge social security package, it is not about large benefits, as you can suddenly see now that there is some kind of social security that would already be tempting to come here. What we are talking about here is that we are trying to make these people manage independently. I do not see any sense in the idea that we should now go and compare so-called ordinary children and young people — we are talking about young people in this case — to these people who are in the custody of children. We all know now that, for example, in the lives of children and young people in child welfare care, things have certainly not gone completely wrong. That is why I would like to stress that I see that we are talking here about a vulnerable group. Indeed, I see that the fact that we support these people was, then, an example could be taken, even if applying for studies or applying for housing, other things like this, will help those people to integrate here. But I also continue to say that we have a great deal to do in order to continue to improve the integration of those who come here into our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u26	Irade the Talman! Clearly, if a person comes here as a minor from a remote crisis area, it is a relatively traumatic experience, he is in a reasonably vulnerable position. None of us can imagine what it is. And the fact that this House is creating a confrontation over what a person who may have been born here may not get compared to what a person who may have been born elsewhere will not contribute to the debate. We're all trying to help. We're all trying to serve the same way. We were talking about racism, about what promotes racism. It promotes racism, creating such artificial confrontations: it is implied that we are trying to help even if he, who has come alone, left Iran or Afghanistan at the age of 14, walked through a large continent, come in one way or another to Europe, is away from something else, or that his choice would have been particularly easy, that he might have thought that Finland might have a place to live, perhaps get an education, perhaps a job, and that it would have been the temptation. Yes, those pushers are significantly more important. So, how to promote integration? According to the studies, the most important things that contribute to integration are the general attitude of society: how do we meet the person who comes here, how do we bring him in, whether he is different or whether he is like us, when he is able to integrate? You talked about integration rates in general. In your alternative budget, you have practically cut all the integration rates. If that is your recipe, then neither do you have the right to demand that integration should take place on its own. Yes, it requires investment from society. It requires investment in education, investment in language learning. At least confess to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u27	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Adlercreutz and Mr Multala and to a few other civilized pragmatic speeches seeking the common interest of all of us. I find it extraordinary that the Finns first wonder when immigrants do not integrate, and then in practice they always do everything in their power to prevent immigrants from becoming integrated. Maybe this is some kind of twisted self-interest that I'm not going any deeper into. This concept of equality is also very strange. If your previous speaker Halla-aho received support from society for studying church slav, then I have not received that support or an immigrant, because we have not studied church slavs, but your representative Halla-aho has needed that support, just as a person who needs integration needs integration support. This isn't about the money, is it? This is about helping, that people can be a useful part of our society. Personally, I wish there was no mention of bearded children, anchor children in this room. This atmosphere of discussion does not contribute to the cause of Finns. I would like to see together here how we are building a functioning society in which everyone is happy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u28	Mr President! This question was raised as to whether the law is a question of equality. If we look at what has happened with child welfare children who are placed outside the home, at the beginning of this year we changed the legislation so that aftercare extends to 25 years of age, when it was 21 years old. This is, in fact, entirely consistent with the fact that, in the same way, for children of immigrant origin who have come here alone and have been particularly assisted for this reason, that aid extends to 25 years of age. Then they asked what happened to the number of children. In 2015, there were just over 3,000 underage children in the country and last year 102, which means that the decrease has been steady for those years. And when it was also suspected that the majority of these children would become, as it were, adults in this country, but pretend to be minors, the draft law clearly states that, at the beginning of this year, for example, there were children who were mainly between 15 and 17 years of age, i.e. children, and therefore it is not reasonable to call these children.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u29	Mr President! Quite rarely do I take a position on these matters, but I have to say that, from my own experience, I have looked at this a lot, and Mr Adlercreuz said quite well in that regard how we view other people and how we welcome them. It's like this. I agree with that. But why is it never criticised that our reaction does not appear in any way in that particular population? Now I'm sure every one of you has read when a Somali girl puts on a video so we can break these houses because we built them. Everyone knows they didn't build anything. Yes, I have to say... I just went to our office today, there were two Ghanaian guys, and when I left, two of them came in. We'll laugh there, we'll have good shots there. There's no problem, no problem at all. They're wearing jumpsuits out there at our office, doing stuff like that. The only reason I smoke in these shrapnels sometimes is because I'm blue-eyed. So the best way to integrate in this country is to learn to be in this country, as it is supposed to be in this country, and not have a mouth on it waiting for us to do everything for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u34	Mr President! That is where Mr Saramo spoke of equality, and I would like to ask him a question: Consider now that Leena-Maria is moving from Oripää to Vantaa and then Abdi arrives from Mogadishu to Vantaa as well. Which one of them pays for their apartment? Which one of them gets the apartment closer to downtown? Which one of them gets better help with exclusion? I ask Mr Saramo: are they in an equal position when a service survey is carried out?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u35	Mr President! This debate shows how difficult it seems to be when it comes to integration and immigration. Here it seems that you can’t really talk with facts, but immediately comes with the strong emotional aspect. And even though I was not asked this question, I will answer that we have integration legislation that is necessary, ground-based, and that is probably why it is given to the person who needs it and not to the person who does not need it. I do not know why the native Finn who would move from one municipality to another would need integration measures. It is not so difficult for a Savalainen to integrate in Helsinki, even though he may sometimes be ridiculed because of his dialect, or perhaps in past decades. But when the Christian Democrats represent, in my opinion, love and borders, an immigration policy with humanity involved, I have sincerely asked here the question of whether, in connection with this bill of law, we have considered the problem of anchor children or the challenge that we have had quite clearly. We have been given a decision in the Supreme Administrative Court last year, for example, or was there a decision in the year before yesterday stating that the child had been sent to Finland specifically because the family could be brought to Finland through family reunification, and when this had happened, even though this false motive was later revealed, it was considered that it was in the best interests of the child to allow that family to come to Finland. In my opinion, this is actually one of those... That is where Mr Adlercreutz well described the dangerous trips these children have to make across crisis areas. If we do not really dare to say out loud that there are anchor children, there are parents and families who put it in the most vulnerable position and see whether he can get to Europe, and perhaps through family reunification we can have a family in Europe, then that is quite strange, too. So I have said here many times that I am in favour of this proposal and I think it is good and it is absolutely essential that these people become as integrated as possible into Finnish society. Indeed, in my own municipality of residence, for example, I have seen how many young Afghans who have come under the age of a minor have been studying at a Christian folk high school, quickly learned a language, completed a matriculation examination, entered a professional career, actually getting highly educated employees in Finland. But if you ask a question here about whether this issue of anchor children has been dealt with or whether this challenge has even been raised, it is already perceived as some form of stigma.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u38	Mr President! This is about equality. We have a law that allows children's protection for the people of Finland and those living permanently there until the age of 25, and now, for the sake of equality, it is important, even in the name of integration, to raise this possibility for these others. Equality is so important that it overrides certain restrictions on corona. I believe that Mr Lindén intends to speak a little more about equality. However, there is much less equality and much more structural discrimination at the heart of this debate. This was an attempt to prevent so-called structural discrimination. By preventing structural discrimination, people will be given better opportunities to integrate, be better and be socially viable. This is to get people to act, as they have been called for here, in the country in a way that they are able to learn the language and settle down and look forward. It is quite clear that anyone who has come to this country — quite clearly, every reasonable person who has come to this country — wants to succeed, wants a safe life and wants to be well and wants to create a good framework for his children in the future. This is something that unites us people all over the world. This law gives these vulnerable children the opportunity to do so. Another word about structural discrimination. This Black Lives Matter movement is worldwide at the moment because it is perceived that there is structural discrimination in different places.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u41	Mr President! At the time, when I was Minister of the Interior and was about a couple of years ago, 2015, when a lot of asylum seekers came to Finland, I visited these — we talked about child protection units — where these people were located. Their stories were sad to hear, very shocking events about what they had experienced on that journey, but also what they had experienced there in the country of origin. If someone in Finland experiences a similar experience, he is definitely in need of child welfare. So in that sense I feel that this is a very important law, and I feel that this is appropriate. And surely this will create that equality and integration, because integration, high-quality integration and integration into this society are very important for the individual, but also for society. It is also important from a safety point of view, but above all it is important from a personal point of view. But to why I have just spoken here. I think Mr Essayah has now explained in more detail why he was talking about anchor children. And I am a little sorry that every time we talk about asylum seekers, we just think from one point of view. I believe that Mrs Essayah has asked the members of the Administrative Committee a perfectly legitimate question as to whether this has been discussed. And what contempt for his question came in this Chamber was tangible. Firstly, I do not think we should despise anyone's question here, and secondly, it was quite a legitimate question because so many children have been sent here to Finland. That does not mean that an anchor child is in any way a lesser child than an ordinary child. He is a child who is in Finland and which we also take care of according to the legislation. That was a very legitimate question and I myself wanted to support Mr Essayah's question because this question by Mr Essayah does have a basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u44	Mr President! I would like to comment mainly on this heading, ‘an anchor child’. Before my parliamentary career, I worked for decades as a preventative force as a police officer, specifically as an anchor contact person. It's an official title: anchor child, Ankuri action. As a police officer, I find out every day what these so-called anchor children have done, and at a time when there are enough such cases, we deal with them together with the social services and the third sector and we try to get these children back on the straight road despite the crimes they have committed. It is an entirely equal activity. Whatever the child’s first and last names, everything is treated equally. This Ankuri or anchor child activity is an official title, that is, it was mainly when a comment came out that such a title should not be used. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u45	Mr President! It is very important that the debate on asylum policy is realistic and based on facts. I would like to take up Mr Adlercreutz's previous speech, in which he pointed out that the most important aspect of integration is the general climate of society. You in the RKP generally understand the economy and also understand the importance of financial incentives. I am a little surprised that in matters relating to asylum policy, immigration, you seem to have a blind spot, because I rarely hear from you that it is called for Finnish social security to work in such a way that it always encourages people to take up work. I want to quote the article of Helsingin Sanomat from last November: ‘‘People who have not done any work have a more stable economic situation than I have. I don’t think that’s fair.” This is what was told in the survey interview by a woman who moved from Iraq to Finland, whose unemployment benefit was suspended because of part-time work. A recent study suggests that trained Iraqi asylum seekers are initially reluctant to resort to social assistance but, as unemployment persists, they are threatened by the same types of incentive traps as the Finns. ‘Some interviewees described that it is impossible to find employment. On the other hand, it has been made easy to obtain subsidies, but only if you do not work at all,” says social psychologist Anu Yijälä. “There had been experience of trying to vaccinate.” ” And a direct quote from the article: ‘Onisovaara,that it causes longer-term dependency on social support’. Of course, it is important that, at the beginning of integration, Finnish services work and social security work, but the core problem with this system is that it does not sufficiently encourage the transition to the labour market, but that it can be left to life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u46	Mr President! I myself will try not to extend this now to the general debate on immigration, but Mrs Essayah, who started this debate, asked the question that has often been touched here. I listened attentively, but it has now been a while before my own speech has taken place. Mr Essayah asked the members of the Administrative Committee, of whom I am one, whether this issue was raised in connection with this issue. It is easy to answer: it did not come. I have just gone through 11 opinions on this subject on 2 June, 4 June, 9 June and 11 June. It contains overlapping expert opinions, namely oral hearings and then written opinions from the same body, and they do not deal with this issue. Mr Halla-aho also replied that this matter had nothing to do with it. Everyone understands, of course, when we talk about minors coming into the country, that indirectly it has a connection with the problems we have been talking about here, but in the context of this legislative proposal this issue was not raised in the Administrative Committee. I don't think anyone's questions have been despised here. Of course, we all know that immigration is a sensitive issue that becomes strong public statements on behalf or in general, which are critical. If I put myself in this debate, which in itself does not belong at all, then I think I am quite in the middle caste there. I see that there are problems with immigration that should not be naive, but yet we need work-related immigration, people getting married here, people coming here to study. Finland has concluded international agreements within which we must act, but of course we know that this world is not made up of only good people in Finland or elsewhere, and is the exploitation of various interests, there is crime, there are many more. We must be critical and we must be able to discuss these issues openly and these problems without getting the wrong impression on our foreheads in this context. As far as I am concerned, this is something like anything else: it needs to be able to be discussed. To return to this point: there was no talk of anchor children in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u48	Mr President! Not much to add, really. I would also like to point out that, in my opinion, the use of a term here in the Chamber is by no means classified — or at least not to be classified — as a human being in a category when such a phenomenon is fully known. I am talking specifically about this anchor child term used by Essayah, which he himself explained and rightly asked, and I am pleased to say this. In my opinion, it is perhaps extraordinary that people should always be very strongly divided into certain categories on this subject. Yes, we should also be able to deal with immigration as a phenomenon in all respects, especially here in Parliament. We have, as Mr Lindén well distinguished here, very different types of reasons for moving to the country, whether it be Finland or someone else: we have asylum, which is one of them, then we have work-related immigration, studying, coming through marriage and so on. Surely there may be people — perhaps I myself feel that I belong — who may take a very different view of these types of immigration, and, on the other hand, I also see the challenges we have faced in our previous asylum policy, for example. Some of them have been corrected and then perhaps not in some respects. On the one hand, integration as such is also linked to non- asylum seekers, but on the other hand, often when you come here, as it were, to study, it may be easier to integrate into society, to acquire training and also to acquire language skills. Of course, we also know that integration is not possible for all students, so to speak, and it is not necessarily their aim. However, it would also be very desirable for Finland that those of us who receive higher education and thus possess the knowledge and skills that are often needed for many types of occupations today should more often remain here as employees. There is one such point that we need to improve both among immigrants in integration and among other immigrants coming to Finland, namely learning language skills. It is still an obstacle to getting a job in many cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u49	Irade the Talman! Mr Vestman spoke somewhat vaguely of a blind spot referring to the RKP. I was very unclear as to what he meant in that, and I am not going to go ahead and clean up the somewhat contradictory lines of the delegation. I would just like to say that I am delighted with what Mr Multala has said on these issues. When it was said how society’s attitude affects integration, its effect is an indisputable fact. This is also one of the reasons why integration has been more successful among those who have come in the 21st century than for those who have come in the 1990s, and it is generally regarded as the main reason why we, as a society today, are more favourable to those who come from other countries, from another background. Then, on the other hand, we also have quite big differences within the country in terms of integration results, and that is another point we should learn from and wonder why in certain localities it is successful well and in certain localities it is less successful. Mr Vestman talked about social security in general and, of course, the same problems apply to those born in Finland and those born elsewhere. We must provide for incentives, and of course it is self-evident that job search should be encouraged, and that is why it is essential, if we are talking about immigrants, that access to employment should not be hindered in any way, but that it should be made as smooth as possible, as quickly as possible, to remove those unnecessary waiting times, as has actually been done in this Chamber by means of a temporary legislative amendment. We should consider the alien passport policy. At the moment, they are not being granted, and that is a very concrete obstacle to not getting caught up in the work. In my opinion, this is a clear, simple and irreparable issue which could improve the integration of a small group and, in particular, enable us to get to work. I think that we all think that once you get to work you are already on a very long integration path.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u50	Mr President! Indeed, this amendment of the law is intended to help a young adult without a parent to gain sufficient capacity to start an independent life, which is precisely what is called for here to study or work. There have been very good speeches here about the vulnerability, the small group of people, the prevention of exclusion and equality. When this bill states that this law does not apply if family reunification takes place, therefore, in a way, this problem of an anchor child did not arise here. It is a good thing that it was also clearly stated in this Chamber if it was not clear to everyone. It is also a good thing that many times it has been said here that it is not a subjective right, but that the need for aid is assessed and provided where necessary. Indeed, these are young people already in Finland who do not have their own parents to support their independence here. They can and will be helped by this legislative proposal with this cross-cutting support. As stated in the report of the Committee on Administrative Affairs — when this broader perspective has been called for — the report on integration is coming to the House this year, and it will then be accompanied by an opportunity to assess this whole package of integration services and the overall package to which the representative will refer. Multala has also referred here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u51	Mr President! A direct quotation from the Coalition Party’s asylum policy programme: ‘The right to a residence permit should be based on the integration of a person into Finnish society. The primary measure of this is that people of working age who are in Finland on the basis of international protection require several years of study or work history during their stay in Finland and reasonable language skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u52	Mr President! I have not been involved in this committee work, but I have tried to study it and have listened to this debate. I think that this proposal is very well-founded, as has been shown in the excellent speeches by Mr Adler-creutz and Mr Multala. What I also know about the lives of immigrants, especially those who come as asylum seekers and the lives of young people, is one striking feature of their extraordinary loneliness. On the basis of this, all such activities that seek to help and be present in some way in their lives are, of course, of value. Mrs Filatov has also explained very well why there is no gender equality problem here, which clearly deserves to be supported. When many here clearly want to express their good will for immigrants and, in particular, for young people who have come as refugees to integrate and succeed and integrate in Finland, I do not think that we should fall into complacency here at all, when we are, as far as I understand, from the Nordic countries — I have not looked at the last statistics, but from the old — here the weakest. Refugees are less integrated than those who come after work everywhere, in all the Nordic countries, which I already know on the basis of a previous research career, and Finland is not doing very well in this comparison either. Therefore, without any such pecking between parties, I think it is worth considering these rules on social security and working life. It is not entirely untrue to claim that we are being integrated into the use of social security. I have met people who have told us that the first thing they taught was applying for income support. And one thing that clearly separates Finland from the weakest, if compared with Germanic countries is this very little use of the apprenticeship. In Germanic countries, that is a very effective channel for people, young people, who do not have very good basic education or training at all. However, it is a way of getting into society. I think that thinking about why our social security and working life rules together finally bring a rather poor result would be valuable to all of us without any party pecking, because the fact that we really want to make Finland a place where people can come, including those in need — and we can still benefit financially from it — requires, then,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u53	Mr President! I have such a formal respect for the three-minute speaking time that, at the end of my speech, I missed a brief quote from the opinion of the Ombudsman for Equality to the Administrative Committee. It consists of four short copies, of which two and three are worded as follows: ‘The aim of the performance is to ensure that without a child in Finland,who has been granted a residence permit after applying for international protection as a minor in Finland,has been fully aged after being equivalent to young children in the aftercare area of child protection. Therefore, the proposed amendment is intended to place young people in situations similar to each other but subject to different laws on an equal footing with each other.’
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u54	Mr President! At the end of the day, it is still necessary to clarify that, as I said in my own speech, language training and social doctrine — as Mr Vestman has pointed out in his own speech — are the key. These are the kind of services that people from a migrant background actually point out, that these two are the ones that should be given and where to ensure that they exist. For example, for me, the strongest demands for a change in immigration policy have come from those from an immigrant background who cannot understand, for example, that we always have the possibility of using an interpreter, but that they feel that it should be limited to some specific years, for example three years, when these people really have to take responsibility for that language and start studying. I think it is important for these issues to be discussed in this Chamber. I would like to see other parties courageously dive into this problem area, for example, what we have in integration. And it must also be said that at the end of last year we had about 413,000 foreign languages permanently residing in Finland. So it is not a small group of people, and there are many different kinds of people with different backgrounds. It is clear that there is a responsibility in this Chamber to ensure that the number we have in foreign languages is socially and economically sustainable, especially if this integration policy does not work. In that sense, I think that there should also be a debate in this Chamber on this subject, which may sometimes be a little grumpy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u55	Mr President! Mr Lindén spoke of equal status and, of course, it is a beautiful gesture to think so, but we are not in an equal position, however, because the situation is that when an asylum seeker comes here as a minor and then is involved in the system, it is absolutely certain that he will be taken care of. At the moment, however, there are less than two fifths of friends here, practically people outside of society, no matter how much. No one is there to help them in any way. No one is interested in those people in any way. Nor do we really talk about them, even though they certainly have as big mental problems and many other problems as these asylum seekers. Unfortunately, these things do not go evenly in this society. These teddy bears are not evenly divided, even though we are, in a way, determined to do so. However, I see that, as an asylum seeker, for example, the person who comes here — no matter what he thinks — has a greater moral responsibility, and when he is given help, there should be a greater motivation to integrate and do something about it, because there is no real way of dealing with his own citizens here, and there is no way of getting those contacts, those guys running around, wherever anyone is living. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u56	Mr President! I did not ask to speak because I disagree with Mr Laakso, but, in fact, I very much agree. I quoted the statement of the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman, in which he stated that legally we should get these different groups, this small group of immigrant youth, and then the whole group of Finnish young people of the same age, on an equal footing. In fact, you are certainly right: I am really concerned about the number of people who are excluded in the whole country, especially among young men there. It can then be said that we do not have a society, some authorities, whether they are at municipal level or regional government level, or what, do not do all that is supposed to be done under existing laws. This is a major flaw and a major problem, and I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u57	Mr President! We must take this speech from Mrs Lindén. I am glad to hear that you are also driving this for the young people in Spanish,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u58	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u59	Mr President! At that first reading it has already become clear that, although this is a legislative amendment resulting from the EU directive, this regulation on electricity transmission prices has become the most important issue we have been talking about here. This committee's report has, of course, dealt with the matter quite thoroughly, because it is assumed that the government will be bringing forward a proposal in accordance with the Government Programme this year on how these electricity transmission prices could be regulated in Finland, and when this is an issue that has been heartburned by consumers in particular, and one might say that the reason for this current situation can also be found in this house. We remember this storm that had taken place years ago, after which Finland began to make legislative changes very quickly, and that is why we have the situation when one might say that this kind of so-called natural monopoly has become almost a means of printing money. In this context, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has already wanted to consult experts with a view to obtaining this government proposal here in the autumn. Particular attention has been paid to these calculation models and to the method of determining a reasonable return and also to this relationship to the capital structure of the companies. Although the regulatory solutions in these areas are not the subject of this proposed regulation, I think it is to be appreciated that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has now expressly sought to take a position on this issue in this report and, as it were, pave the way for what is expected of autumn. Mr President! As such, this bill itself and its report must be supported and taken forward, but indeed here, like many other representatives, I will be waiting for what the government is bringing to the House in the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u60	Mr President! Electricity grid companies, whether privately or publicly owned, have increased prices year after year. In the midst of the economic crisis, the rise in transmission prices should be curbed and the monopoly profits of network companies should be cut in order to strengthen purchasing power. 92 per cent of the respondents considered electricity transfer pricing to be unreasonable in the Union's survey. Similar views have also been expressed on the part of the government. After all, the government proposal before us has only a formal link to the fixing of electricity transmission prices, even though the control of transmission prices was originally to be at the heart of this bill. The main proposals for amendments to the draft law already included in the consultation in January have been excluded from the present proposal. The electricity transmission prices are influenced both by the costs of the electricity network operation and by the investments in the electricity grid and by the permissible return on electricity network activities for network companies. Both the records of the Government Programme and the draft government proposal for January were inadequate to control transfer prices. The measures set out therein do not sufficiently address the construction of a cost-effective electricity network and any undue monopoly revenues. The response sent by the Ministry to the committee shows that the government is still not going to address this one core problem, namely the revenue allowed for the network company. The Coalition Party's legislative initiative effectively addresses transfer prices. We require that the proceeds allowed for network companies reflect in reality the capital committed to the network and the almost non-existent risk of the business. It is completely unreasonable that the owner of the electricity network monopoly can obtain a return of more than 30% on the capital it currently invests. In addition, we want the electricity grid to be constructed as cost-effectively as possible and alternative means of land cable construction are used to achieve weather security. We want to increase the rights of electricity users in general. The professors consulted by the committee have raised exactly the same problems with the electricity transfer pricing control model. In the light of the opinions received by the committee, electricity grid companies are currently over-produced because the capital committed to the electricity network for which the rate of return is calculated is determined on the basis of the value of the calculated network based on the standard unit prices in force for eight years. Furthermore, on the basis of the opinions, network companies benefit from a fixed rate of return because — a direct quote from the opinions — ‘this offers a significant ‘financial advantage’ to a company operating with a significant foreign capital share. The delay in addressing electricity transmission prices is therefore in the interests of the electricity grid companies and is undermining the position of consumers. Why did the government front prevent the experts' statements from being taken into account in the report? That is a good question. I shall make amendments to the explanatory statement in line with the objections in the report and proposals for statements in accordance with the objection from 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u61	Mr President! It is appreciated that you can admit that you have made mistakes in politics, and it is honourable that after that you still want to correct those mistakes. It's sad, though, if you know the problem, but you don't even want to fix it. Transfer prices and monopoly revenues for electricity companies are something on which people generally think they are unreasonable. Issues related to electricity transmission prices may have been the biggest source of feedback in recent years, and social media, but also directly to us parliamentarians, are being sent pictures of large transmission prices, even situations where the share of electricity in the decline is virtually non-existent or almost zero and the transfer fee is then very high. ‘Electronic activities are inherently monopoly, and people do not have the possibility to choose from which You've got to put a stop to money in Monopoly at last. Reason shall enter into the circles and law more stringent general requirements for reasonable pricing and the content of the control model. As a whole, the profits of network companies could even be halved and, for example, the profits of Caruna would fall by 70 %, which would appear in the customer’s wallet.” This is what Mr Heikki Vestman wrote when he took a legislative initiative to deal with the overtaxation of electricity transmission. A bill signed by a parliamentary group in the Coalition Party would cut the profits of network companies, stop overinvestment in network companies and in fact leave the level of weather security to the people themselves to decide. The proposal would also exempt small networks from the monopoly and require greater social responsibility of monopolies as suppliers of essential goods. The Coalition therefore argued that the transmission service should be produced as cost-effectively as possible, and this would save up to EUR 900 million in future investments by 36 years, when always choosing the most cost-effective weather security solution. The Group of the European People's Party has done a good job in committee and brought these proposals to the committee's attention from Mr Vestman's bill, and it is hoped that the government parties will eventually have an understanding for the Finnish people, who are very unanimous in seeing the unfairness of electricity transmission prices.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u62	Mr President! There are indeed more technical changes, but it is important that legislation on electricity transmission prices is brought before Parliament as soon as possible. It is a great thing that the Assembly also pointed out that mistakes have been made in previous parliamentary terms on this matter. Of course, there have been many other parties involved in making these mistakes, but even under the leadership of the coalition, this legislation is now something that we can only try to correct — something that is important. As we say here, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, in consultation with experts, has considered the calculation models to be particularly problematic, the method of determining a reasonable return and its relationship with the company's capital structure to be applied at the moment. In the forthcoming presentation, there must be answers to all these issues. However, these regulatory solutions are now not included in this package. In addition to the different interpretations of calculation models, attention has been paid in expert consultations to the scope of national legislation. This too has been interpreted in very different ways, and it is quite worrying that the views of experts and the ministry differ so widely. Now, of course, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy did not have a broad consultation with experts. For example, it would be good to hear more about professors or other researchers. It is important that we are committed to knowledge-based decision-making, and that is why the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy here states that it is necessary to clarify, prepare and compare the regulatory options and their effects in a comprehensive and transparent manner so that the proposals that will be made later this year can achieve the best possible model for regulating transfer prices from the point of view of market efficiency, cost-effectiveness and consumers. This was the point where the coalition did not come entirely behind this formulation, which indeed requires a comprehensive and transparent analysis of the regulatory options. Of course, there are good proposals as well, and hopefully we will work together with the Assembly when this legislative package is received and discussed. It is quite a pleasure to have this debate together, because quite a few parties have made these mistakes, which are now more difficult to correct afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u63	Honorable Speaker! That is where Mr Holopainen opened up this problematicism, which is connected to this, or indeed to the forthcoming government proposal. This was a technical proposal in itself, which was now before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, but, as has been said here, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also dealt very well with this future government proposal and has already raised the key threshold issues relating to the proposal. I would therefore like to make a statement to Parliament: ‘The Commission requires that a comprehensive set of measures to reduce electricity prices be So my own analysis of this situation is rather such that the problem lies in this formula of reasonable profit and, in particular, in the fact that it gives too high an end to the cost of equity, and when the cost of equity is then reduced again by its own CAP model within the formula of reasonable return, all of this will become the end result of the previous control period, for example, where the reasonable return has been up to 6.4. And in times like these when other capital, loan capital, is very cheaply received, the question arises as to how much return must be made on its own capital, how much return the company should make on its own capital. It seems that these demands for income have even been unreasonable. Finally, Mr President, this problem of electricity pricing has itself arisen and has been raised in the political debate in the alternative budget of the PS in autumn 2017, and we have always brought this matter here to the House for a vote — a number of budget debates have voted on this issue. It is a good thing that this kind of government proposal is finally coming into being, but I would like to stress that there has still not been a proper focus on this WACC formula, that is to say the formula for a reasonable return, and this point in particular should be taken into account in this new government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u65	Mr President! At the very beginning, I would like to support the proposals made by Mr Vestman. I understand, of course, that, in the middle of the processing process, with such a fast schedule, the government would probably not have been inclined to change its proposal during the corona period, but instead of signing off on who has made mistakes, as happened in the previous Question Time, or laughing a little bit about it, the government would take the matter seriously and wonder whether the model presented in the objection to the assembly could be used when the legislative proposals relating to electricity networks were later brought to the House. The reason for this objection is the bill, which is, in fact, signed by the parliamentary group of the entire Convention, and it has also been very carefully drafted, and it is not... Perhaps sometimes legislative initiatives may also be taken, as it were, to stimulate debate, but it has been very carefully considered that this is something that could also be implemented. When there is strong support for legislative initiatives in Parliament — and it seems that at least some of the Finns in Finland were also behind the protests of this assembly — then changes can be made on the basis that legislative initiatives have been tabled in Parliament. Now it seems that at least the green ones also have the regret to correct the old mistakes, and surely everyone could imagine having the will to correct the oversized power grid companies, as if they were monopolistic, to raise their profits, and there would certainly be a consensus to look more closely at whether this model would be good enough for the government as well. Of course, the history of the matter as such now must be understood in the sense that, as a result of the storms — I do not remember what the name of the storm was — it was obliged to build as if it were weather safety, and it is perfectly understandable, but at that point it was not understood that the law should have included this as reasonable a way as possible of ensuring that weather security. It has now made it possible for electricity transmission prices to increase in practice at a very rapid pace, even though efforts have also been made to curb it along the way. What is also great about the opposition to the assembly is that we are trying to respond to the fact that the consumer of electricity has the opportunity to be able to take care of that weather security on his own. In sparsely populated areas in particular, this could also be a very cost-effective way from the point of view of the electricity network company.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u66	Mr President! I do not know why, during the last parliamentary term, the government did nothing about it when I did not follow it so closely myself. I was a special assistant at the time when Caruna’s electricity networks were being sold. The Coalition Party strongly stressed that electricity networks are not strategic assets that should be controlled by the public sector. The consequences were already seen, and the left-wing alliance was then left alone to defend that public property. When everyone has seen how it happened, which was already visible then, I do not know why nothing has been done about it since then, but it is really great that now there seems to be such a broad consensus in Parliament that this issue needs to be addressed, and I am confident that the Minister will bring us a good proposal, hopefully, as early as next autumn. I am a little surprised when the opposition sometimes feels that such things should be brought into this Chamber, and sometimes they should not, but I think it is absolutely necessary to bring this matter into this Chamber in the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u67	Mr President! After all, this government proposal is about the implementation of EU standards, and it is in that way largely technical, but we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of course, wanted to hear from the best electrical technicians in the sector in order to ascertain whether this proposal for a law now being adopted is binding on these subsequent transfer pricing solutions, and also in order to learn these transfer pricing issues, which are also covered by this proposal. In any event, when these distribution networks are a monopoly — whether private or public — it is essential to regulate the operation of such a monopoly. I was inclined to think, first of all, that we should wait for the presentation of our wise government, but when we studied these pricing formulas of transfer prices with the help of these two leading Finnish electrical technology professors, we understood the great problem at present with these accounting rules, and here I was also concerned that the government and the Ministry were not really willing to take on this academic criticism, which was, however, most justified. This is a bit of a technical matter, but it is indeed a matter of whether the owners of detached houses and electricity users are being made to pay implicitly for future investments and the costs for future electricity users. That is why I am personally involved in this objection to the Assembly, which simply obliges the government to take this criticism more firmly into account, and I myself am a little concerned after the committee debate and even after this debate, about what kind of proposal the government is actually going to make and whether it takes note of the criticism which, in my opinion, is quite inconceivable to justify the fact that these current pricing rules are not in the best way possible for welfare and for the regulation of the monopoly. It may well be that Mr Saramo will be disappointed in the autumn when he discovers that the government's proposal does not lead to the results which have been widely demanded in this Chamber, and this objection to the Assembly, if it is read in detail by the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u68	Mr President! At the beginning, of course, I support everything that the representative has to say. The hill above was presented by the hill. I would have liked Mr Saramo to make a fine correction to his speech when he said that the Left Alliance was left alone to defend the national situation in the electricity network. Yes, the Finns have been against the sale of the electricity network the whole time that this issue has been discussed, and it is really nice to see now that transfer prices and others have made this Parliament integrate, everyone is coming to the line of the Finns. The last debate was just a few days ago, and the Prime Minister said that he would bring in a proposal in the autumn to influence these electricity transmission prices and called for the interest rate not to bring into the Chamber things that could provoke conflict. On the basis of that debate, this issue did not create any contradictions in this House, unlike, for example, the integration money and the like mentioned above. So I'm really looking forward to having a real show like this done. I had to check on my own April electricity bill what these prices are at the moment: one month, April, falling — not winter heating time, not summer heating time, but half-term — electricity tax EUR 66 67 cents, electricity price EUR 61 19 cents, and electricity transmission price EUR 123 45 cents. So these are the kind of readings you're going to go to in a normal house like this right now. At the same time, it has been estimated that when people switch to different alternative heating and electricity production models because of the high electricity transmission price, transmission prices will only rise as the number of users of the electricity grid decreases. In other words, it is now really high time to make a change before it is completely out of control, while, in the case of households, the room for use, the room to buy, is dwindling all the time when more money is spent on moving, heating and living, and the sufficiency of work is at stake all the time. So that's the fall show we were waiting for. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u69	Mr President! I am surprised that, according to the minutes of the meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, representatives of the government committed to informed decision-making have voted out of that draft report paragraphs which explicitly express this criticism from independent experts. Why, according to the committee's Minutes, did the representatives of the government parties vote out the criticisms raised by experts? Where does such an objective of concealing the problems associated with the regulation of this electricity grid come from? In this debate, problems have been raised with regard to private electricity networks, and I would like to emphasise once again that the ownership and regulation of electricity networks are two different issues. It is important to distinguish them from each other because this legislation and its supervision are capable of interfering with the activities and pricing of both privately owned and publicly owned network companies. The regulation of the electricity grid, that is, the one that ultimately determines how much a single consumer has to pay for that electricity transmission, is very complicated. It is very technical, and unfortunately it is that the knowledge and skills of many politicians are not necessarily enough for those details. And that is precisely why the Coalition Party has prepared a draft law which combines political will and knowledge and knowledge in this area. I would also like to point out, in fact, that even publicly owned network companies have raised high transfer prices and also have very generously distributed profits to their owners. On the basis of public data, I have made a calculation of the profit-sharing-type items paid by network companies by each location of use, i.e. by electricity user. On the basis of this calculation, Caruna Espoo Oy, which is privately owned, has paid a profit of EUR 137 per site and then, if you look at publicly owned network companies, Kymenlaakson Sähköverkko Oy EUR 170 per site, Savon Voima Verkko Oy EUR 146 per place of electricity use, Järvi-Suomen Energia Oy EUR 80 per place of electricity use. My question is: how does a senior living in Hirvensalmi, who cannot afford or who does not rawly heat his apartment because of high transfer prices, heat up the fact that things are repeatedly raised here about the trading of Fortum's networks seven years ago,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u70	Mr President! At least I hope that, if there are problems and contradictions, they will be brought up quite openly, and also the difficulties — let us say now, although there was no desire to talk about the mistakes made by the majority — if there are still difficulties in getting this thing right, because, as we have discussed, it is not easy to go back to the point where the mistakes were made. But we have to try everything to get there. It would be a good idea for me to put further clarifications on this in the report, but I think it would be worth asking now more broadly what views there are in this House. As I said here, Mr Vestman did not want to draw this attention to the fact that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs ‘comprehensively and transparently’considers it important to clarify, prepare and compare the regulatory options and their effects, so that the proposals to be made later in the year can achieve a better model of regulation on transfer prices from the perspective of cost efficiency and consumer performance of the market. That is what we are trying to achieve. It seems that, in a sense, there may have already been a desire to make a legislative package which was not brought here because of the interest rate and for one reason or another. I personally hope that we will soon find a situation where things will not be postponed as a result of this corona epidemic. It is quite difficult to know in advance what are politically contradictory and, in a way, challenging issues. There is also a risk that we will do or someone will do — the Council of Presidents or anyone else in government cooperation, whatever matters are brought here — a political choice as to which things will be delayed. I hope that as soon as possible this legislative practice will be exactly the same as under normal circumstances. For example, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy still has one report on the citizens' initiative waiting to be admitted and approved, and one might think that it is also a very urgent report. This issue must also be put in order as soon as possible, and certainly knowledge-based decision-making and preparation. As has been said, we certainly need more experts than these two, who have now been consulted. I hope that our legislative work will also not be such as to involve large numbers of direct beneficiaries in the working groups. This, too, is incomprehensible. It feels like it's the Finnish way,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u71	Mr President! With regard to the mistakes made by different parties in the past, since this issue is being constantly raised here, I would like to remind you that the minister presenting Fortum's electricity network trade was the Minister of the Greens, Haavisto. This solution was also behind the government by the Minister of Social Democrats, the Minister of the RKP, the Ministers of the Coalition Party. As far as the responsibility of other parties for this situation is concerned, I have to say that I have not yet found such a viable, effective solution in the hands of any other party. I went over the solutions proposed by the Left Alliance. There is, for example, a bill in which a cap on prices, a cap on increases, was put forward — a wrong section of the law on the control of the electricity and natural gas markets. This ceiling is an important issue in itself, and it is already there, but it does not in itself cut or control the increase in transfer prices, it only periodicises them. With regard to the solution put forward by a number of parties that a certain rate of return should be recorded in the law, in line with the Swedish model, which would directly affect the profits generated by network companies, such a model, in which the legislator or the ministry or a political body decides in detail on the content of the control methods, has been found to be incompatible with the Electricity Market Directive by the EU Court of Justice case-law. Instead, the convention model is in line with EU law. It sets out general principles on the content of this monitoring model, and these principles would in practice cut the profits of network companies affecting electricity transmission prices. Our objections in the draft statements have highlighted these options for our solution. I will read the first draft statement here. We would like the Commission to ‘require that the governmentsubmits a proposal to reduce electricity transmission prices by laying down general principles on the content of the pricing control methods,that the value When I listened there to Mrs Vähämäki's speech, I understood that you are in line with the objection of this assembly,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u72	Mr President! I wondered when there were very interesting, good debates and speeches here and why the online payments were so expensive. It was the Manta storm, which triggered the reconstruction of these networks, and it has been years since it was that storm. After that storm, tens of thousands of homes were left without electricity and many people suffered great financial losses because of their lack of electricity. With regard to this electricity transmission price and the overall taxation of electricity in general, I think that anyone who is involved in the municipal decision-making process and knows that there are municipal electricity companies will, by their own actions, create this hidden tax on the fact that electricity companies will have to pay dividends to the mother on the demand for income — I think that there will be more than a thousand of us who are guilty of this, who will put pressure on the price of electricity and the price of the electricity network. What I think should be done now, in some way to get ahead, is to get equal status in the transfer fees of people in sparsely populated areas, because they have to pay much more per capita for the transfer price than people and electricity consumers in such a dense urban area. At least that would be the first solution that should be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u73	Mr President! Why have we been elected to this Parliament? Because we are legislators. This means that individual MPs can submit legislative initiatives, policy initiatives or budget initiatives. Congressman Vestman has done just the right thing. He has fulfilled the duty that his constituents expect. That is why they have voted for him here, that he will come and correct the laws if there are bad points in the old laws, regardless of which parties are responsible for it. As Mr Vestman said, a few large parties were involved in the government at the time, but we Christian Democrats were also involved there. We are partly responsible for this mistake. Why should it be so difficult to admit that in this house there are always, every government term, mistakes, and that is why there will be elections? It's the people who make a difference. There will be new representatives who will correct these mistakes, as in this case a group of people will try to correct the mistakes that have been made in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u74	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Sem and Mr Östman, for the very important contributions. The representative, Mr Semi, raised the issue of hidden taxation, which is exactly the right term for the activities carried out by publicly owned electricity grid companies. After all, one solution is that the decision-makers in municipalities use corporate governance to ensure that the municipality’s finances do not become clogged. As regards the damage caused by the storms Hannu and Tapani at the turn of 2010-2011, it is true that these storms caused major power cuts and, as a result, political pressure on the need to make legislative changes in order to put the electricity grids in better condition and more weather-proof conditions, grew, and the legislator made demands that the electricity grids meet such quality requirements. After all, the Electricity Market Act does not require land cabling, i.e. that those air lines are placed inside the country, but only requires networks to meet certain quality requirements. In the station formula areas, the power outage shall not be longer than six hours and in the sparsely populated area it shall be more than 36 hours. What has become a problem is that, at the same time, the law does not require that these weather security requirements be met as cost-effectively as possible. At the same time, the monitoring model, which determines its transfer price, strongly encourages network companies to invest in new networks in order to meet these quality requirements. When this fact that the law does not require cost-effectiveness, i.e. to choose the cheapest, most cost-effective, weather security measure, is combined with the fact that pricing control encourages massive investment, a cycle is created in which the network company should financially put air lines in the rock, because the network company will benefit financially from it and the bill will eventually be paid by the end user, the electricity user, each of us, on its electricity bill. For this reason, the Coalition Party's legislative initiative will also address this cost-effective network building. We expect the law to become a requirement that weather security requirements and online activities in general should be organised in the most cost-effective way possible. We suggest that electricity users are also given the freedom to choose, if they wish, a lower level of weather security in exchange for the compensation paid by the network company. This would allow individual electricity users to use, for example, an aggregate to provide weather security in a situation where land cabling or the construction of an otherwise weather-proof network would be particularly costly for the end user. So let us give more rights and freedom to end-users and constrain such waste, which is unfortunately linked to this requirement of weather security at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u75	Mr President! I asked for the floor when Mr Semi said that it would be very important to have regional differentiation in these electricity transmission prices. This is indeed the case in the Nordic countries, Sweden, among other things, with this regional pricing. In fact, the Christian Democrats made a suggestion about this last autumn that we in Finland should now also examine and see how many people could also be met in a sparsely populated area. In Sweden, too, the difference is not very large, but nevertheless. Yes, I would say that when many times there are small granary cottages and similar places in a sparsely populated area where it really feels that the actual electricity consumption is not very high, but then these transfer prices are really expensive and these bills are unreasonable for people who are already living there with a very small income and, for example, have to pay more for their mobility than those who live in growth centres over public transport. I therefore hope that this matter will now be taken into account when it comes to the proposals that are being brought to this Chamber in the autumn — that, Mr Semik, you will now be keeping an eye on this in the government party. As I recall, in Sweden this has been carried out within its electricity tax, in some way staggered there within the electricity tax, or by someone of this type of payment system there is. I hope you will get to know that model and it will be introduced here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u76	Mr President! Here Mr Östman said very well that it is a good thing to be able to recognise and recognise that when mistakes have been made they are dared to be said, and they come during every government term, and that is the case, and no one here has denied that there have been no mistakes. I do not know how long it will be possible to assume such collective responsibility for the actions of previous governments, especially if you have not been involved here — even if you are a party of your own — we present-day parliamentarians still have limited influence over what has been done in the past. But it would be worth considering how to avoid these mistakes whenever possible, and how to prepare legislation, whether it is sufficiently transparent and of high quality in Finland, whether one of these things can already be prevented. One aspect of this is the transparency register working group, which is preparing legislation on how we can better know who is lobbying for whom. I think that this question is at least a partial explanation of why such a mess has arisen: there has been too much listening to those who have their own cow in terms of the economic impact of the matter and too little research. I think we should get that side of the bill in order. In my view, at this committee stage, there is quite a lot of consultation with experts in various areas, and it is also open to what they have said, but it is quite unclear what kind of knowledge the impact work on special assistants, for example, contains. It is very important that this high-quality and transparent drafting of legislation starts from that point in the ministry. Of course, it is great that Mrs Vestman is very familiar with this subject and I am sure that we will be able to discuss this together in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, hopefully, so that the best solutions can be found in the autumn when this issue comes up. Unfortunately, in this way of working for Parliament and the government, the legislative initiatives of individual MPs are quite rarely implemented as such — at best they can tighten up and sometimes go through — but I believe that there is such a great deal of will here that this needs to be put right. The Parliament should also be better resourced, so that the legislative work that belongs to Parliament can be done here as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u77	Mr President! Mr Holopainen rightly drew attention to the fact that the objectives of the various interest groups may affect the content of the legislation, and I would like to highlight, for example, the proposal in the draft January Government bill that the deficit compensation period for network companies should be extended from 4+4 to 8+4 years, i.e. that network companies should be allowed in the future to make the price increases that will not be made in this current balancing period. In its January opinion on this draft law, the Energy Agency has explicitly stated that such a model would be contrary to the interests of end-users, and I urge the government to pay very close attention to the fact that it will not eventually come forward with proposals that are contrary to the interests of consumers. With regard to this regional differentiation of transmission prices, which was raised by Mr Semi and Mr Essayah, the price of electricity is roughly composed of about one third of taxes, one third is the share of electric energy and one third is the share of electricity transmission, and it is precisely through taxation, i.e. by regulating electricity taxes on a regional basis, that would enable us to influence the level of electricity bill paid by the end user, the consumer, and to compensate for these regional differences. On the other hand, I do not see the possibility of a solution from the legal point of view that the transfer price should be phased out regionally. As described, transfer prices are controlled on the basis of such a control model, which is similar to that of all network companies, and the conditions of network companies, such as the condition of the network, have an impact on the level of the transfer price on the basis of this control model. Of course, the fact that there are, in principle, higher transmission prices in sparsely populated areas is due to the fact that the construction of the network is relatively more expensive due to long distances, but, as has been said, through the electricity tax, it is probably most appropriate to build such a regional relief. It is desirable for the government to consider such an option.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u78	Mr President! It is indeed the case that if you fail, then you should confess. Of course, in this area of electricity grids, much of the reason why this will probably continue to be discussed in the future is because it became such a criticism in advance, and there were such tough discussions about selling electricity networks to Caruna that it was certainly not the case that it would have come as a surprise to someone. That's why it's a little different when you make a mistake. Of course, such a mistake, when it has been made, it goes without saying that it will then have to be corrected in some way, and especially at the moment in the government's proposals and these must take this into account, as Mrs Vestman has rightly pointed out, so there will be a problem in the future if there are no certain changes to be made. Many people in this Chamber are saying that they have heard and have sent a letter, but I do not have to do it — I am looking at my own electricity bill. I've got one piece of out-of-the-boxed self-catering houses that have enough frost stakes there to keep places so-called melty that the pipes don't freeze there, and it's the kind of two to thirty that it consumes power a month, but a hundred bills come from there every month, and I can't get rid of it at all, because the situation is that it's forced to do so; I can't let go of that electrical connection, because the problem is that the pipes freeze. Now, however, it would be absolutely essential for this to go to the finish line now and to understand that the next time similar things come up, when there is actually a lot of talk about those problems and there are debates about them both in the media and here in the Chamber and in the committees and there are experts and so on, we should just really do it at once, and not make such a torso first and then turn it around for years — and then perhaps a really good solution will be taken here. I think it'd be best if we rub it all at once. This is not the only case where it seems that the alarm clocks have screamed no matter how much and there has been a debate, but nevertheless there have not been the corrections that need to be made and then they will be made again later. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u79	Mr President! There's been a big number here about the fact that mistakes have been made in the past when the power grid has been sold. In reality, however, it is essential for our well-being and for efficient and fair pricing of electricity that its monopoly is regulated. After all, it is so that a good result can be achieved, whether in private or public ownership, if regulation makes sense. That is why this wreaking of the so-called mistakes of the past may not be as relevant as the search for a good regulation model that Heikki Vestman has been talking about here. The second thing that came to mind was that I listened with joy to Mrs Holopainen's speech here when she spoke about this consultation of experts in Parliament. It has been a powerful experience for me too, now that I have been here for five years, in how many committees it is the usual budget list, the list of ordinary experts, is actually made up of lobbyists. I have taken it upon myself and I am pleased to see that Mrs Holopainen has the same desire to ask academic, independent experts who are able to shed light on these matters and generally on all things in the most brilliant way. Of course, the most flagrant of all this domination of the parties involved is in labour market legislation, in which, as the only Nordic country in Finland, there seems to be a political culture in which some of these organisations, especially the Confederation of Finnish Industries and the SAK, appear to be giving some kind of legislative power and even expect them to have the kind of interlocutors that the Parliament should supposedly follow as such. This approach is one of the reasons why we have the highest structural unemployment in the Nordic countries, the lowest employment rate and a significant sustainability gap in public finances, and I do not think that the situation in the labour market will improve until the government, parliament and government are brought together in relation to these representative organisations. That is also shown by the situation in which we are currently in, when the planning of employment reforms has been outsourced to organisations which have no intention of coming forward with such reforms. In my opinion, this is the most flagrant omission in the excellent and important issue raised by Mrs Holopainen, especially since the preparation of the organisations is such that there is no trace or documentary evidence of it, nothing is known about the negotiation process and only the outcome comes here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u80	Mr President! The statement made by the Peruvians is very supportive and good. It must also be pointed out here that the sale of the electricity network has been a mistake, and that is something we can fairly acknowledge here. The fact that the electricity grids were once sold — I think the Peruvians were the only party to oppose it — has shown that there is no limit to price increases, and the price of electricity transmission is most likely to hit the rural area and their elderly people’s own purse. Yes, those contacts are really moving when you think that electricity transmission can cost more than electricity itself. No matter how old you try to grind and save by turning off those lights and not heat it up in your own sauna, possibly electric, it's of no use, because that price tag is still big. In alternative budgets, the Finns have already suggested that electricity transmission prices should be given attention and addressed, and it is a good thing that these issues raised by the Finns are discussed here. There must be no punishment for having an electric heating house or for using electricity. Unreasonable transfer prices are precisely penalties. They are, of course, also punishments for owning your own place in rural areas, for example, within the forest, and then the costs will hit the lowest-income pensioners, those whom we should encourage instead of blackmail, to be able to cope with ageing, living, living, living in their own homes. That is, a highly supported statement by the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u81	Mr President! I'm excited about this conversation, too. I followed the debate on immigration from the car while driving from Ostrobothnia to here and just said to myself that this debate is interesting. It would have been nice to be part of it, and now I get to be part of it. So I admitted openly and honestly that the Christian Democrats were then involved in the sixpack government when this decision was made, and the Finns of Peru can say that they were the only party that opposed, that is, the only party that was right. This is usually the arrangement in this room that the only right people are the True Finns. We have to check out what happened then and what happens today, for example. I mean, Fortum owned that network, didn't he? And Fortum is a listed company. Will the state then be able to intervene? Can the Minister of Corporate Governance intervene in the company's business? Does anyone have an answer to that? [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: No, he can't!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u82	Mr President! Mr Juvonen's point is that, when this Caruna trade took place in the government of that time, Mr Arhinmäki, the then Minister, in those negotiations, gave a different opinion to the Minutes that the trade should not take place and opposed the trade. It was the only government party that publicly pointed out that a bad decision is now being made for Finns. But I asked to speak in this regard because when I look at those statistics, where are the highest prices for these transfer fees, they do go to that sparsely populated area of Kainuu, Eastern Finland, even North Ostrobothnia. Where there are fewer residential areas, there are really expensive transfer fees. Was Caruna only the seventh in those statistics in terms of transfer fees, that is to say, this system of ours also requires a change in order for us to be able to balance the cabin's grandmothers and papals to live at home as long as they are able to make commercial trips to the nail and to keep their licenses in order to be able to move around in sparsely populated areas. This is probably our bigger job this autumn to have that conversation more.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u83	Mr President! Mr Juvonen was not here before when a debate was held on this very issue of the impact of the ownership base of electricity grid companies on transmission prices. It is indeed true that a natural monopoly should be held in public ownership. Thus, a natural monopoly refers to a situation in which competition cannot be created, even if the law exempts it from competition. Even if the electricity grid companies were to be exempted from the regional monopoly in which they now operate, there would be no competition. Instead, there would be an uncontrolled situation in which that monopoly would be used completely recklessly and wrongly. The monopoly is inherently greedy. That is the nature of the monopoly. This is truly evident from the way in which publicly owned network companies have acted. As I pointed out earlier, several publicly owned network companies have distributed more profits per location of electricity use than, for example, privately owned Caruna Espoo Oy. For example Järvi-Suomen Energia Oy, Kymenlaakso electricity network Oy. Not all electricity networks, distribution networks have been privatised in Finland, as has been pointed out in this debate, but a really significant part of electricity networks are still publicly owned. Privately-owned network companies with a majority shareholder are Caruna's networks and Elenia's networks. Indeed, transfer prices have also increased significantly in publicly owned companies. Examples: Järvi-Suomen Energia's electricity transmission in 2008 7.5 cents per kilowatt hour, now 19 cents per kilowatt hour; In North Karelia PKS Electricity transmission in 2008 7 cents per kilowatt hour, now 16 cents per kilowatt hour; Kajave Kainuu 8 cents per kilowatt hour in 2008 and now 19 cents per kilowatt hour. In other words, what matters is how, through law and control, regulation intervenes in this network company's activities, where electricity transmission prices have also been raised to ensure that the owner has been able to pay large profits. And that is precisely the problem that the legislative initiative of the Assembly will address. It is essential to find the solutions now, not the mistakes of seven years ago that many parties have been involved in, as has been pointed out here. As far as the solutions previously presented by the Finns of Peru are concerned, I do appreciate the fact that you have kept the transfer prices on the table. But it is not just a matter of concern or demand for solutions that resolves the matter; it is essential that we find the effective means, the viable means, that can be used through legislation to intervene in the activities of network companies. Such a solution-oriented approach is at the heart of this coalition's legislative initiative. I would like to thank those representatives from the People's Republic of Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u84	Mr President! That much more needs to be mentioned when Fortum’s electricity network was sold to Caruna: Although prices would not have been affected — which is not necessarily true now, but if it were the case that prices were exactly the same — it would in any case have gone to a company owned by the Finnish State 100 %. So that would have left that money far more in the good that we have in common than it is now running away from the worlds. That is what Mr Östman has to say in his speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u85	Mr President! In the case of the Caruna trade, Mr Semi has pointed out that, in fact, in the Committee on Economic Policy, Arhinmäki submitted a different entry in the minutes relating to that sale. In a way, the start of the whole trade and just started from the fact that Fortum was removed from the obligation to maintain these electricity networks, which, as it were, then became available for sale, so that, in a way, there was a strategic change in Fortum's mission, and that was how this sale became possible. It was presented by Mr Haavisto, the Minister for Corporate Governance, and I am sure that Minister Vapaavuori, as Minister for Energy, was also involved in this measure. At least at that point in time, Caruna's share ownership was divided into about 20 per cent for Finnish pension companies and then 80 per cent for international investors, that it was formed, but quite rightly, as Mr Laakso said here, of course, Fortum's ownership of this income would then have been clearly greater in Finnish society than they are at present and most of them will then run away. As has been well mentioned here in many speeches, now is the time to make corrections, and it seems that this bill by Mrs Vestman, and certainly also supported by many other representatives, would be one of the things that would move forward. I certainly hope that, when the government brings this proposal now in the autumn, it will now be carefully examined here and would not go to the point where, when a proposal comes from the opposition, it cannot then be taken under review, but it would be precisely thought that now all the best possible proposals will be put on the table and then try to get a proposal that would actually become public sense of justice and then, on the other hand, bring the necessary electricity supply security, which of course is needed, but would not allow these excess profits to be made with this transfer pricing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u86	Congressman Laakso, I'll agree with you on that, if we could. But if we really go if we did, these networks should never have been owned by a listed company. In order to be sure that such damage would not occur, it should have been a wholly state-owned company, 100 percent owned, but not a listed company. We would have had the power of decision then.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u87	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. I'm opening a conversation. — Ms Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u88	Mr President! At that first reading, the Christian Democrats and the Assembly voted on this motion for a amendment on this rate of refund of VAT which is subject to the payment arrangements. Even the government made a reasonable reduction of this interest on late payments to that two and a half per cent during this debate, but we considered in this protest that, when in many countries the collection of interest has been completely waived in this situation, when it is specifically about helping these companies, as it were, with their own tax debts over this valley of death, there is no reason to charge interest, but we had defined it as a reference rate in that one of our own objections, and the reference rate is currently zero. In particular, in our protest, we wanted to remind the House that, in this situation too, when the tax administration system is so inflexible, to put it in national language, it would not be possible to properly calculate these days of late payment, it would seem quite unreasonable for the days when companies actually do not even have the money, but that interest would have to be paid on the basis of this, in other words, the failure of the tax system, the failure to function in the payment system, to maintain this reference rate alone. Mr President! This was indeed put to the vote. It is, of course, important that this possibility of refunding VAT has been introduced, because this has been something that you can actually say, as early as the beginning of the corona crisis, it was pointed out from several quarters that this would be one of the easiest ways to provide that liquidity to the company's cashier, but it would be better now than ever.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u89	Mr President! We have just had a debate about the fact that previous governments have taken wrong decisions that should be corrected. Now would be a good chance to fix it before it's too late. Therefore, in order to cope with an exceptional crisis, it is important that the liquidity of companies is also supported by the flexibility of the tax procedure. However, these arrangements must not entail unnecessary costs for companies. According to preliminary data published by the Bank of Finland on 1 June 1920, the average interest rate on corporate loans is 1.30 per cent, i.e. the average rate. This means that more successful companies are likely to pay well below 1% and then the less well-off will pay more. Now, however, in this government proposal, those companies which are most vulnerable, that is to say those who have suffered badly from this corona crisis, would have to pay interest which is well above its average interest rate. I therefore regret that the government has not been able to channel sufficient resources into the conversion of information systems to bring the days on which the interest payment is based into line with the time when the amount on which the interest is calculated has been used by the company. This objection, which has been made by the assembly together with the Christian Democrats, is very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u90	Mr President! This refund of VAT has been regarded as important by business organisations and is now in the process of being implemented. It applies to all categories of persons liable for VAT, to those subject to the monthly, quarterly and calendar year procedure, and concerns VAT for the first three months of the first year, that is to say, they would be refunded. This is true of the fourth VAT paid in 2019 in the calendar year procedure. There is therefore a question of VAT already paid, due and already paid. Of course, it is clear that the interest should not be charged until these refunded VAT is in the company's account. Of course, I have to admit that. However, the tax administration’s systems will not give in until next year’s side to the fact that that interest rate would be collected from the right time. It is now collected from that due date and this was taken into account in such a way that this interest rate was reduced from 3% to 2.5% per annum. It is clear, of course, that all sorts of things can be said here to use zero interest rates, i.e. the interest rate of the best bank credit client, but that would, of course, lead to all VAT debtors applying for this refund. That is not the purpose of this system; it is intended to help those companies that really need this refund of VAT. And it is also clear that this is a question of our common tax assets, which have already been taken over by the State, and that is why, of course, it makes sense that some interest should be charged on this refund of VAT. What is essential, however, is that VAT itself comes back to the entrepreneur and facilitates his or her liquidity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u91	Mr President! First of all, the tax section and, as a result, the Committee on Finance made a number of corrections to the extent possible. But now that we are talking about this information system issue, it was not the resources used for the information systems but the time, but the time, that would be an obstacle to such an information system repair so that the interest rate could be calculated from the right date. We are talking about such a large and large system of information that, according to the estimates given to us, such changes would have delayed the proposal even next year, which is an unreasonable situation for many entrepreneurs. So, as it were between two difficult options, it was decided that it would be better to make this relief available to people now than to wait for this change in the information system. After all, it is a good thing that we have such stable and sure-to-work information systems that when we really start making changes to them, they must be well weighed and prepared and, as it were, cannot be acted upon as quickly as possible. Of course, it would be worth looking for ways that could in future both be sure of the quality of the change in the information system and then act more quickly. The development of information systems is, as it were, an ongoing project that is being carried forward in every administrative sector, and this again underlines the importance of this issue for the legal protection of the various actors involved. Well, then, when we talk about what would be a fair interest rate, at least I stopped the municipal union statements in this regard. After all, many municipalities have suffered enormous reductions in tax revenues this spring, when many operators have not been able to pay taxes because of the interest rate when there has been no business activity, and the plight of municipalities is indeed deep in many places. There has now been relief, but if, at the same time, with the other hand, more unpredictable situations were created for municipalities by lowering these interest rates, that situation at least was considered very difficult by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. In other words, this balance is struck between the determination of a fair interest rate on the one hand and the economic situation of the municipalities on the other. We know that the government may have better opportunities to cope with difficult issues, but many municipalities may not have these opportunities, and that is why the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities was very strong in this regard. In itself, the 2.5% that was reached here corresponds quite well to such a situation. For this loan there is no need for separate guarantees. These are companies that are in a difficult situation. If such undertakings are considered when it is taken into account that there is no need for that guarantee, it shall be 2,5 %
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u92	Mr. Speaker! This is where Mr Kiviranta and Mr Suomela have already largely explained what was going on. On the basis of the expert consultations, the Committee on Finance and its tax section made the necessary corrections to this government proposal quickly, and this has brought it into proper shape. As a whole, this consideration of companies’ financial problems in the context of the corona crisis is a good international level in Finland. Well, it's very sensitive to bring up the big billions, which then have to do with it. In the case of Germany, for example, a huge guarantee mandate has been given to state banks and, in part, the State directly grants. We then complain that Finnvera's money does not sell, and we were similarly given this EUR 12 billion mandate, but it is clear that it is for small and medium-sized enterprises that it is expected that we will see what is going on with direct support and where the market is going to develop, before long-term credits are taken in order to ensure this kind of stable development in companies. In the future, we will certainly need such longer-term solutions, even for larger companies, when we see how long this levelling-up and normalisation of the international market will take. But on the tax side, these additional chips are not so much immediately available. This abnormal proposal on the part of the Assembly represents the same line as many others in recent times: at the same time, the government's debt is horrified and then we would like to make a much bigger gap through this VAT refund system. If it were offered as a zero-interest opportunity, as the previous speakers have pointed out, that would lead to all possible VAT being recovered as if for a fixed period, and it would really make a hugely bigger gap in the tax revenues of the state for this year. As a whole, this is moving in the right direction, and with these changes it is also a viable arrangement for the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u93	Mr President! There is now talk of VAT more than anything, and that is a rather strange tax. Changing or lowering it could make it much easier for businesses and could also increase purchasing power, and it is interesting that the EU has a huge amount of say in this value added tax that it is just not possible to change the VAT rate and VAT rate. Somehow it seems that the EU has far too much say here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u94	Mr President! Mr Koskinen spoke of a danger that would follow if this reference rate was used, i.e. zero interest rate. I personally think that taxes are things that are legally imposed and whether interest is charged or not, in my view, does not increase the willingness to pay taxes. If, for some reason, the company is unable to pay its taxes, VAT in this situation, then it will not be able to do so, regardless of whether or not it is at an interest rate. Of course, this could be compared slightly to the fact that it has been said quite loosely now, at least on the left wing of the government, that, yes, from abroad again, Finland can take on debt for its own use, since it is more or less what we are already being paid for — and I have listened to such speeches around the turn of the week — whereas, if we were to think that, in this situation, our own entrepreneurs would be giving back the VAT they paid, I would say that this zero interest rate would be quite justified in this case. In particular, for this strange situation that, when there is no money even in the account, interest is to be paid on it, it seems to me to be a bad argument that we have not really had the opportunity to make such a change to our tax administration's payment system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u95	Mr President! I do think it is a strange idea for companies to apply for this VAT back if they do not need that money, that is, if the company has EUR 100,000 in its account and the turnover is EUR 500,000, then they will start taking that money back to their own account if there is no use for it. On the other hand, if someone does not have to do so necessarily and still take it, it is obviously used, for example, for an investment or something like that, which will then lead to an increase in the company’s tax revenue and hence to a subsequent increase in tax revenue. That is why, even in this debate, when we compare the interest rate on student loans, for example, I do not even understand why it is being compared, because we are talking about the pain caused by the interest rate on businesses. This rate should not be compared to anything, nothing at all. They're completely different things. What we are talking about here is that we are saving companies, and why do we then want interest on that money, because the idea is to save them? The more interest we take from them, the more we need to help them otherwise, so it would be much easier in the final games to help the companies that are in this case. As I am sure many people know, the companies that need to be helped in a relationship are the ones that have to fight for survival a little every day. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u96	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. I'm opening a conversation. — Ms Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u97	Mr President! At first reading, we have already been able to vote on a joint objection from the Christian Democrats and the Assembly, in which we pointed out that this government decision to reduce this VAT on these protective goods and also on testing materials in relation to the corona epidemic is discriminatory, given that only the public sector operators and, in addition, the operators who have carried out the overall outsourcing are involved. In other words, for some strange reason, the government wants to favour these large health giants, especially in municipalities where there has been a total outsourcing, to ensure that this VAT reduction applies specifically to these operators. On the other hand, small entrepreneurs running various health and social services, care for the elderly or, for example, housing services run by one or two persons with disabilities do not want to be taken into account. The first reading pointed out that, as a whole, there is, of course, a lot of red tape here, because the fact that this law requires these commodities to be specifically linked to this corona epidemic, then certainly the fact that each unit itself will have to record quite carefully, which protective equipment has now been used precisely in relation to this particular corona period and which has been in use in general, since these are, however, the majority of the equipment used in the services sector, for example. Mr President! In that vote, we noted that there was no support for this proposal from the government parties. Indeed, for some strange reason, these large private health giants, which carried out the total outsourcing, were under the protection of the government, but not then these small SMEs, which run these social services in their own homes. One group of problems that I am sure will have to think about will be joint ventures in which the public sector, for example several municipalities, owns 51%, for example, and then there may be a private side with 49%. We will probably have to ask ourselves whether this legislation affects this type of operator at all or even part of the outsourcing in the municipalities: who, in the end, has been responsible for acquiring these equipment in these situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u98	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u99	Mr President! This was a long and thorough debate in the Committee on Finance on whether this relief is now allocated equally to the various municipalities and at what point this is taken into account in this so-called tax compensation procedure. We have been told that, with two years' delay, as usual, this equalisation will then also take effect with regard to these increased distributions. At the moment, about 300 million out of this amount, of this good 500 million, will go to the ten largest municipalities, and the others will then be left with the leftovers, and if account is taken of the geographical allocation, the largest municipalities in Uusimaa will receive more than 200 million from it. Helsinki alone accounts for 24% of this total money. That is why there was indeed a debate in this context about how to deal with these acute situations, which, however, are equally relevant to those small municipalities where many times the situation can be much worse than it is to think of a Helsinki which is now exceptional in the sense that it has made very profitable financial statements here. In that sense, of course, one might think that helping these small municipalities in this economic crisis would have been particularly important. Of course, in the defence of the government, it can also be said that this is one part of the package, which means that there will then also be direct relief from the state contributions of basic services, and that it will also take into account different types of municipalities and can take into account, for example, sickness and age structure and the like. It is very important in general that this municipal package has been brought into transport. 1.4 billion is a good hand extension. True, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities pointed out that the amount that would be desired was 1.7. Of course, one must only hope that, as quickly as possible, businesses will recover and jobs will be maintained, and hence the economic situation will not be weakened by the shrinking tax revenue and the increase in social costs in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u100	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. I'm opening a conversation. — Ms Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u101	Mr President! This issue, too, was unanimously put forward by the Committee on Finance, of course, in understanding the seriousness of the fact that these borrowing powers are now considerably increased, and, of course, we in Parliament must be constantly informed of the fact that, in addition to... I am sorry, Mr President, but I was looking at the wrong point. In other words, this relates to this borrowing and the amendment of the State guarantee and State guarantee law. The purpose of this government proposal is therefore, in an exceptional way, to support state-owned or wholly state-owned companies with such a loan without a fixed date, thereby enabling them to improve their liquidity. In this context, the only thing we wanted to inquire about in the Committee on Budgets was the way in which this is recorded in these companies. It was found that, for companies using international accounting standards, that method of recording requires it to become part of so-called equity financing. Mr President! This was indeed put forward by the Committee on Budgets as a unanimous report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u102	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u103	Mr President! Unlike that first proposal, which was also linked to immigration, this is hardly going to be the subject of a similar emotional debate. Indeed, this is simply a matter of abolishing these articles of the Alien Register Act and replacing this whole entity with this processing of personal data by a law in the immigration administration. The purpose of this is precisely to collect the points in different legislation into the same legislation and, of course, to update the European Union Data Protection Regulation, the Data Protection Act and the law on the processing of personal data in criminal matters in connection with the maintenance of national security. The whole issue here is related to updates. Although there seems to have been a lot of changes in the committee, even with regard to this data protection regulation, it seems to be a unanimous proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u104	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u105	Mr President! This proposal is intended to extend the legislation already in force, which shortens the employee's retention period and, on the other hand, reduces the condition of employment, and to extend this legislation until the end of this year. Mr President! I understand that in this respect the social partners have worked well together behind this, and the legislation must certainly be supported and taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u106	Mr. Speaker! This is a report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is unanimous and the purpose of this proposal is to extend until the end of this year the temporary changes in unemployment protection legislation which will ensure the livelihood of employees in situations where employment ends temporarily or completely. It is also proposed that, apart from lay-offs, unemployment allowance paid during the period of unemployment is not taken into account when calculating the maximum period of daily allowance. In the report we recorded figures in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health that according to the latest data — this was 7.6.020 — the total number of full-time laid-off unemployed job seekers was 14,4237 and the total number of unemployed job seekers was 2,91,394, i.e. we are talking about a large number of people. By June 8, 1920, about 5800 employers had registered with the TE Office about 540 000 employees, which means that this bill also affects a large number of people. It is to be hoped that, as soon as possible after this deep corona gap, people will be able to return to their jobs, have long-term employment relations, and the lay-offs and negotiations will end. It is in the interests of all of us and the interests of Finns, and it is good that the government has supported people's coping and coping with these different presentations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u107	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u108	Mr President! The purpose of this is to increase the central government contribution to the Act on the financing of unemployment benefits and the Act on the Unemployment Fund, and I recall that this appropriation was included in the amending budget on that side of the budget. In this context, it would have been a good idea to have a debate on whether it would not be time for this earnings-related daily allowance to come to everyone, not just the members of the cashier, that it really could be open to everyone. I recall that during the last term of government this proposal was brought up at some point on the part of the then party, the Blues, and it would be good if this were examined thoroughly and unscrupulously. I personally think that opening up a earnings-related one for all would not be the kind of reason that would in some way affect, for example, the organisation of the workforce. I believe that there are many of us who belong to our own trade union for reasons other than just that in terms of earnings, and in that sense I believe that time should be ripe in Finnish society for such a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u109	Mr President! This is also the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the report is unanimous. This proposal proposes that the State should contribute to the financing of earnings-related allowances for the same reason as lay-off and the weather restriction. The unemployment fund would be paid the amount corresponding to the basic daily allowance as a central government contribution for each earnings-related daily allowance. This relates to the draft amending budget of the State. Mr President! The cost implications of this proposal have not been fully assessed. We always talk here about the cost impact of a particular proposal. The cost impact of this proposal will depend on the number and duration of layoffs in 2020 and it will be challenging to assess the number and duration of layoffs because the impact of this corona crisis on the economy will also depend very strongly on the disease situation at the end of the year, possible restrictive measures and the recovery of the economy. It is good to remember that, while we are now relaxing the various restrictive measures and hope that the corona crisis and the gap have been reached, it can indeed be expected that the corona virus epidemic will be wavering. There may not be a need to talk about another wave, because it is always with us, but in the autumn and winter we may have very serious situations ahead of us if we do not fully stun this corona crisis and the corona epidemic, which now seems impossible from the world's point of view, because of the huge number of cases around the world. Mr President! The temporary amendment of the Act on the Financing of Unemployment Benefits and the Act on the Unemployment Fund will safeguard the financing of unemployment benefits in the event of an epidemic of coronavirus, where the number of laid-off persons has been exceptionally high and also unforeseeable. The increase in applications for earnings-related daily allowances due to the significant increase in lay-offs will increase expenditure, in particular by the Employment Fund, and at the same time the decline in employment will lead to lower income from unemployment insurance contributions. With these concerns, the report is unanimous, but let us also remember these concerns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u110	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u111	Mr President! Indeed, these changes are intended to improve the availability and adequacy of medicines in Finland due to this covid-19 pandemic. Now that these exceptional circumstances have been established and the regulations for the introduction of the Emergency Act have expired, it is important that we make these changes to other legislation in order to ensure that, if we have such situations again — hopefully not — we will be able to take care of the availability and storage of medicines. As I understand it, we've been able to handle this reasonably well. There have been some individual medicines with problems of access, but when compared with a few other countries, one might say that this situation has been quite well dealt with in Finland. Mr President! I have heard here that we are under some sort of schedule pressure here in the House, so I shall conclude this short and I hope that other colleagues will note that there is still something to sit on the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u112	Mr President! The purpose of the proposal is to improve the availability and adequacy of medicines after the expiry of the regulations on the introduction of the Coded-19 pandemic in Finland. This proposal concerns the pharmaceutical law, the storage of pharmaceuticals and the amendment of the Act on Infectious Diseases. These are now changes, some specific changes to these laws, which have been made in this situation when the exceptional situation has been moved to the normal situation, and are justified by themselves. However, as we know, there are widespread and far too many disruptions in the availability of medicines. We have a lot of points to make clear in the future. In other words, it is necessary to open up the pharmaceutical law as a whole and to clarify the issues there so that access to medicines can be improved. Of course, much is needed anyway, including internationally, to improve access to medicines. One of the points I raise is that the marketing authorisation holder must notify the marketing authorisation holder of any temporary or permanent suspension of the placing on the market at least two months before the sale is suspended, subject to specific reasons. However, the notification is submitted two months in advance only in a fraction of cases. According to Fimea, in 2019 only 1.1% of notifications have been made two months before the occurrence of the accessibility disruption. In other words, this is also a point which should be clearly addressed by binding guidance, legislation. Another issue that has arisen from the field is that pharmacies should be allowed flexibility in the delivery of medicines in situations where the medicine prescribed by the doctor is not available in pharmacies. Flexibility is needed, for example, in situations where the drug is not present in the same strength as prescribed by your doctor. It would help both health care and the pharmacist and the customer so that it could be exchanged for another strength, taking into account that the customer would receive sufficient information and he would also be willing to do so, and this would only be the case in the event of a disruption in the availability of medicines. This was noted in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health that this would be taken into account in the reform of the road map of medical treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u113	With regard to Mr Essayah's speech, we now have requests here for about an hour. I understand that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must have two reports ready for tomorrow, so that next week there will be no sittings on Monday or Tuesday. It will only be without limiting anyone's right to speak to you for information.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u114	Mr President! Thank you again for this clarification. As a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I also think it is important to be able to speak on these issues relating to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and it is, of course, a pity that we had a meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health at 4 p.m., but naturally, when the session is continuing and there are extremely important issues here, these will be discussed. But the committee will then sit late, and that is nothing unusual, because we have already been used to sitting late and early in the morning, even in July, during the last period of the social war laws. Mr President! This bill has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and the report is unanimous, and these proposed amendments are intended to improve the availability and adequacy of medicines in Finland immediately after the expiry of the emergency conditions identified for coronavirus pandemic or the introduction of the Emergency Act. The proposal suggests that, in the event of a disruption in access to medicines or in the event of such a threat, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health could temporarily restrict or target the distribution, sale and disposal of certain medicinal products. The pharmaceutical law would introduce the obligation for wholesale pharmaceuticals to report interruptions in the distribution of medicinal products. It is also proposed to specify the provisions on the reporting obligation, the storage obligation for pharmacies and the pharmacy premises for marketing authorisation and parallel marketing authorisation holders and registration holders. Mr President! In its report, the committee considered it necessary to continue to take measures to remedy the disruptions in access to medicines in connection with the road map of medical treatment. This is very important to remember. We've had situations where there's been a problem with access. It is very important that medicinal products are available and that proper and safe medical advice is maintained. Mr President! Today, the Director General of Fimea said that, at the start of the corona virus epidemic, medicines were hoarded like toilet paper, and that is certainly true. There was a great deal of hoarding and we were in danger of the situation, the self-inflicted situation of the problem of availability that, among other things, fever-lowering drugs might not have been available, but the pharmacies did well, and people got their drugs. It is important for consumers to have confidence that the pharmacy will receive the medicine at the moment it needs it and that the pharmacy opening conditions are such that people will be able to get their medicine there. The bill is a good one, and it is important to ensure that medicines are available. And let's also remember who knows what's coming in the fall. Possibly a wave is growing, a wave of coronavirus epidemics, and diseases are increasing and medications are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u115	Mr President! The drugs are important. It is important to have the right medicine and precisely at the right time. There have been problems with the fact that no medicines have been available. There have been problems that no certain types of products, strengths, have been available from the bulk. Such problems have actually been for a long time, and it is really positive that this kind of obligation storage now then comes. In the past, it was an obligation stocking, but today it has not been, and now it is all right for pharmacies to pay attention to the fact that some medicines are kept in storage so that they do not run out of them right away. A lot of pharmacies have done this before, but it's good that this is coming all the way to the law. 25 years of pharmacy work I have often come across this issue that when a doctor prescribes a medicine, if there is no temporary reason for that strength in the pharmacy, the strength of the hospital pharmacy can be changed in such a way that it is calculated that there will be exactly the same dose but that the strength of the medicine will be changed, but in the usual pharmacy this cannot in principle be done. This becomes such situations in pharmacies that you have to call a doctor, your doctor may have to have surgery in the middle, you have to bother a few nurses and your customer will have to wait for an awful long time. It is particularly important that, when the pharmaceutical law is reformed, this too should be addressed. This bill is a good one, and I hope that in the future there will be enough medicine for people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u116	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u117	Mr President! Korona has also challenged the completion of vocational education and training. A particular angle of difficulty has arisen with regard to the relevant evidence and learning in the workplace. At this point, it is proposed to amend the regulation so that, for the reasons of the epidemic, the evidence can be carried out by means of practical tasks corresponding to genuine work situations and working processes. The aim is therefore to ensure the progress of studies and the completion of qualifications even in exceptional and unexpected circumstances. However, the main rule is that the displays must continue to be carried out by carrying out practical tasks. However, they would be carried out under safe and flexible conditions. I consider this proposal to be sensible, just as the Committee on Culture and Education did. It is therefore essential that the quality of vocational training is maintained. So flexibility, agility and adaptation are important words, but the most important thing is that the right to study is maintained in every time, even in a difficult, class. Legislation should be flexible for the benefit of the student, and I think that is the essence of this proposal. President! The completion of any student must not be caught in the missing display environment or mode. Delays in evidence may lead to a delay in completion of a profession or employment. As a result, this unfortunate snowball effect, in which everyone suffers a little: employers are losing the workforce, and in many sectors, even before the corona, labour shortages are experiencing new cycles. President! Vocational education is a valuable and important secondary degree. In 18 C.E., more than 266,000 students were studying in vocational education — so we are talking about a huge group that will contribute to the construction and construction of society. It's a very good performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u118	Mr President! This government proposal is indeed necessary. Just as Mr Kivisaari said there, it has, of course, been difficult in this epidemic period, and in some areas it has been impossible to provide evidence, and it has also been required that they are in real work situations or working processes. It is therefore important for legislation to state that these can also be done in ways that are as close as possible to genuine work situations and work processes. Mr President! Indeed, it is important that students who have graduated now in the corona period have full access to the labour market and that they do not get caught up in these displays and tasks, and in that sense the government's proposal must be absolutely supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u119	Mr President! This government proposal therefore proposes to amend the provisions of the Vocational Training Act on how skills and skills can be demonstrated, i.e. evidence. According to the main rule, displays must be carried out by performing practical tasks in real work situations and work processes. However, during the Corona virus epidemic, the implementation of evidence in genuine work situations has been very difficult or impossible, especially in some educational fields, if jobs have been closed or have been at high risk of infection. In this proposal, it is proposed to temporarily amend the rules on the way in which the displays are carried out so that the displays can be carried out instead of genuine work situations and working processes by carrying out other practical tasks which are as much as possible equivalent to genuine work situations and work processes. In addition, the possibility of complementing the skills shown on the screen with other assessments of competence would be reduced if necessary. The aim of the proposal is to enable the progress of studies and the completion of qualifications and qualifications in exceptional circumstances caused by the corona virus epidemic. This law is supposed to enter into force as soon as possible and would be in force until the end of July next year. This is a very good prospect for the future if we may have a second or even a third wave of this corona epidemic. The committee was very united in this proposal. Only discussions were held that it is important that we go ahead of the student in the sense that the student would not miss out on the degree and the screens, but there was also concern that, in all situations, it would not be possible to simulate knowledge in the classroom or in anything similar and especially online. For example, nursing work is very much so that it would be very important for it to be in real work communities and work situations. In the 1990s, the evidence qualifications have become a form of qualification, and the evidence is also used as a tool for assessing competence in a very diverse way. Fortunately, they are now also used to assess competence in a situation where, for example, a foreign student has come here to Finland and is assessing whether he has competence and how much he or she needs to complete a degree in Finland. That is why I think it is important that these displays anticipate the situation if it happens that we are unable to perform in real work situations. I also rely on teachers to take into account the fact that no-what-happens displays and what-happens know-how when you can't practice in completely unauthentic situations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u120	Mr President! The Korona era has brought many uncertainties to young people. One of these has been the completion of studies in vocational education and training, where graduation depends on given work screens and traineeships in real work situations and genuine work processes, and these have been very difficult or even impossible to organise during the epidemic. Delays in evidence can also mean delays in qualifications and employment and young people being left empty. This proposal aims to secure the conditions for the advancement and completion of vocational education and training students' studies in the context of coronavirus if it continues in the autumn. It is proposed to temporarily amend the regulation of displays so that the displays can be carried out by carrying out other practical tasks which correspond as far as possible to genuine work situations and work processes. According to the committee, however, genuine work situations should continue to be preferred, and the flexibility offered by the amendment of the law is intended specifically for an epidemic situation. During exceptional arrangements, the quality of qualifications and the matching of working life must also be ensured. The working life must be able to rely on the knowledge and skills of a young person with a qualification and have been properly assessed and verified. The implementation must be consistent and ensure equality between students. Digital solutions, in particular on the availability of evaluators, need to be implemented everywhere, and this needs to be monitored and evaluated and developed – if possible in the post-column period. The feedback of young people and students as well as the needs and observations of employers on the change should also be collected and taken into account in further development.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u121	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the provisions of the Vocational Training Act on how skills and skills can be demonstrated, i.e. evidence. According to the main rule, displays must be carried out by carrying out practical tasks in real work situations and work processes — such as care institutions, care for the elderly, hospitals, health centres or home care — when we talk about, for example, nursing students. However, during the Corona virus epidemic, it has been difficult, even impossible, to carry out a sample of genuine work situations and work processes, especially in some educational fields, where jobs are closed or where there has been a high risk of infection. With this proposal, it is proposed to temporarily amend the rules on the way in which the evidence is provided so that the displays can be carried out instead of genuine work situations and work processes by carrying out other practical tasks which are as close as possible to genuine work situations and work processes. In addition, the possibility of complementing the skills shown on the screen with other assessments of competence would be reduced if necessary. Mr President! I myself have been in the care sector for almost 25 years, and it has been there for several years, when I have also been the recipient of the displays. I know those situations: they are very exciting and important, and the students are wondering if we can get through this show and continue studying and whether it will come to the proof that I have graduated. That is why it is particularly important to develop different means of then performing it on the screen. It is very important that the quality of vocational education and training is maintained and the right to study is maintained, and that we be flexible for the benefit of all students at this tragic time. It was great to hear news from North Karelia in March. Your social partners signed contracts with nursing students who were currently in training at those offices. So the students got a direct job there and were still paid for the work they did, and certainly learned a lot on the field of work that might have been shown on the screens. Among other things, there are medical display points, there are injections, there are various medical tasks, catheters, wound treatments — and there must be some way to show that they are all controlling. Of course, when a student enters and goes into work there, there should be a good orientation and support person who can be asked for advice if necessary, because that's the way it is especially in the nursing sector, that when you do, then you learn, and they are important things. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u122	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u123	President! The proposal proposes very sensible changes to both university and polytechnic law. All of this, therefore, on a temporary basis because of the state of emergency caused by the epidemic and the restrictions associated with it. At the same time, we anticipate the future if there are new waves of disease — hopefully they will not happen. The proposal includes flexibility, for example, if the student is prevented from starting his/her studies due to an official decree relating to the epidemic. So it is quite understandable and worthwhile to react to the situation. Higher education institutions would not be obliged to organise studies or guidance leading to a qualification if it is not possible to organise the studies included in the curriculum safely. This would take account of delays due to changes in education arrangements when deciding on the extension of the right to study. So no one would be bolted out of the boat but shared in the face of insurmountable things. These are necessary measures and I am sure that we will be able to respond to these proposals in a spirit of acceptance. So the government anticipates and prepares, but of course we hope to be able to travel in universities as well as in universities of applied sciences according to normal steps. President! In this connection, I would also like to thank the Government and also to convey my greetings from South Ostrobothnia. In the amending budget, the government is investing in training. A really big thing is a one-off increase of EUR 124 million in start-up places for universities. This will give the universities 2,600 new starting places and the universities of applied sciences 2,200 new starting places. These are the things for the future. South Ostrobothnia and Seinäjoki University of Applied Sciences also thank you!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u124	Mr President! Due to the exceptional circumstances of the epidemic, certain flexibilitys are laid down in the University of Applied Sciences Act and the Polytechnic Act, in particular with regard to the start-up phase and related guidance. On the other hand, we want to ensure that the right to study continues accordingly. In other words, no one's right to study will be reduced for the reason that because of this epidemic the university or polytechnic is unable to organise these curriculum-related studies and study guidance. During that couple of weeks, guidelines from different universities and universities of applied sciences have been published in the news about how they are now planning to organize that autumn. There seems to be quite a decision already made at this stage at many universities to continue studying at a distance. Some have then made a decision precisely in such a way that for those who start their studies this autumn, there will be short such visits and on the other hand there will also be orientations to study, but for those who attend higher annual courses, the main aim will be to arrange lectures at a distance, excluding perhaps some of these individual exercises and other similar exercises that are carried out in groups. It can be said that universities and universities of applied sciences have responded to these situations in advance, and of course the overall development of this epidemic will then be the final figure, the way in which studies will then be continued in the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u125	Mr President! These legislative proposals, which are here at second reading today, relate to the anticipation of the future situation, the possibility of a second wave of corona epidemics, and, of course, the intention is not to introduce a law on preparedness or the Act on communicable diseases, but to make the changes made in these basic laws so that they can be applied if the situation so requires. Moreover, this bill is also concerned with the fact that ‘the university law and the university of applied sciences law are proposed to be supplemented by provisions on absenteeism in the first semester of the year ‘It is also proposed that provisions be added to the cited laws that universities would not Delays resulting from suchchanges This is very much related to the amount of study social benefits and so on, so that even if the studies were prolonged for this reason, then it would not become a kind of punishment for the student. And these laws are supposed to enter into force as soon as possible, and this package of laws would be in force until July next year. That which is presented is only until the end of the year, because it is more about such a fundamental issue, such as basic education. It is considered that this can be continued for about a year from now. In committee, we were very satisfied with this bill and agreed with our opinions, and all the commentators who were there as experts were in favour of this. This is a very student-centred solution: the starting point is that the student’s situation will not be disturbed or affected even if we still have an epidemic here in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u126	Mr President! As the mother of the spring student, it has been interesting to follow this spring and summer process both in the application process and in the admission to studies. This time, for example, the testimonials solved admission to the university, and the entrance exams also changed as this virus epidemic in Finland progressed. It is good that it is now being taken into account so that students are given the opportunity to study and these brakes and delays, which may result from the interest rate, do not undermine their ability to study. In this proposal, it is proposed to include in the University of Applied Sciences Act provisions on absenteeism in the first academic year if the student has been prevented from starting his or her studies due to an official decree relating to the epidemic or other serious reasons related to the epidemic. It is also proposed to include in the laws provisions that universities are not obliged to organise studies and guidance leading to a qualification in such a way that the student can complete a degree in a targeted manner as provided for by the law if there is no possibility of organising the studies included in the curriculum due to an epidemic. Delays in the progress of studies due to such changes in education arrangements would be taken into account when deciding to extend the right to study. It is very important that when studies are delayed, account is also taken of the potential impact on the social benefits received by students, and it is important that any delay in studies caused by exceptional arrangements is taken into account when considering the student's extension. It is important, as the Committee on Education has said, that the impact of the proposal on the student's various benefits is assessed comprehensively, as an example of the importance of continuing exceptional circumstances for the needs to review the terms of the student loan credit. Mr President! It has been a pleasure to hear that student places are being increased in both universities and polytechnics. A very large number of students who have received good certificates have been left without a place to study. Uusimaa, of which I am myself, and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, Helsinki is particularly highlighted when it comes to the need for care workers and the competence and need to manage the care sector. We have a large number of co-workers and those who manage the management of the care sector, who must be replaced as soon as possible by new workers, including through the social welfare reform. It is very important that the start-up places for the Master's degree programme in health sciences are also added to Helsinki and are very strongly introduced here in the capital region, because there will be a huge shortage of nursing leadership skills in the coming years, as well as those local nurses and nurses.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u127	President! When Mrs Juvonen was able to tell us about this situation in her own family, I would just say that this interest rate has created the need to slightly change these basic laws and anticipate the future, to give flexibility and to give the universities and universities and all the other students overall the conditions for action, but this has also created problems in, for example, selection processes. The regional government authorities gave the opportunity to carry out selection tests, but for some reason the universities changed the selection criteria in the middle of the application process. Of course, there may now be problems for applicants, because they were prepared to carry out the selection tests and, on the basis of these, possibly get in, and now it is time to take more with that choice of evidence. — After all, Parliament’s Ombudsman and Assistant Ombudsman have received a great deal of complaints about this, and this will certainly be dealt with. We will certainly have to come back to this in the autumn. Let us see what can be done, depending on the position and decision of the Deputy Ombudsman of Parliament. — It has been precisely because of the addition of these starting points, to which reference has been made. It is very good that the opening places have been increased, but it does not, of course, take away the problem of legal security that these applicants have had. In addition, we will certainly have to return to these starting points in the autumn in the sense that now that these starting points have been added, their unit price will be lower than it normally is. Of course, it is good to hear what it means for students in the committee during that autumn, when the unit price is much lower than it is normal, which has then been tried to get along. Now, for example, a nursing institution or a polytechnic receives less than before. We will return to them in the autumn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u128	Mr President! I'll just keep going a little bit. That spring I asked a written question about this very process. For the first time, when you apply with certificates and get to a university, for example, many young people had already booked a training course, for example, that started earlier than knowing whether you were accepted or not. I was also contacted to see if it would be worthwhile to start a training course if you could get a certificate. And if you get a certificate, then you kind of feel like you've gone to that training course for nothing. So this little blurry hole in this spring has been, and I have to say yes to these spring students and those who also went to that training course and perhaps got further studies with certificates, that it's always worth studying, and it's great that they've already prepared for the training course, although their style changed. There was no on-the-spot instruction, it was all online. This spring’s students have done a good job of writing at an accelerated pace. There's been a lot of stress and pressure. Of course, the Corona virus epidemic is no one’s fault — when it came, it came — and the young people have shown patience in having mastered that work, but surely one must consider how to improve that situation further. The stress of high school students did increase as the grades of evidence have become such an important role in entering the university. It will increase the pressure, and that message has come from the students. It would be desirable for us, as decision-makers, also to hear that we do not put students in quite unreasonable situations. At a very early stage, each student must think about the field where he or she is going to go, so that he/she chooses the particular subjects he/she writes, and he/she tries to obtain the best possible grades so that he/she can, for example, get into the fields he/she dreams about at the university.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u129	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u130	President! Although the sun is shining and the mind is good right now, and perhaps even the corona is a little out of control, there is still reason to be prepared. Wisdom is therefore anticipating, and that is what this proposal is all about. This proposal therefore assumes that a local and flexible approach to corona-reaction can be made. So we do not necessarily need this massive all-in-the-form action, but we do react where it needs to be. It is precisely the fact that, unlike the spring solution, the obligation to organise local education must not be limited in municipalities where viral infections have not been detected. The local education authorities will cooperate with the communicable diseases authorities and assess the situation if the need arises. President! The Education Committee rightly and sensibly emphasises the priority of local education. It must, of course, be clear in mind. However, this proposal ensures that the student’s right to receive education is realised even if schools and other teaching facilities are partially or completely closed under the Act on communicable diseases. President! There is also much to learn in this spring. According to information received during the spring, visits to student care, i.e. school psychologists and curators, as well as student health care, took place considerably less than under normal circumstances. This is understandable in itself, because the situation was new and, of course, emphasis was placed on avoiding close contact everywhere. However, it is clear, as the Committee on Education also notes, that the need for education services is emphasised or at least maintained during distance education. Thus, the need for support for both learning and emotional difficulties will not be eliminated in the transition to remote education. In any case, we always need human hands, no matter what the times.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u131	Mr President! This government proposal, too, provides for the period after the withdrawal of the Act on Preparedness and for the flexibility of the regional transition to distance education where necessary, while stressing the importance and priority of local education and also taking into account the needs of special groups and those who, for example, are subject to extended compulsory education. This committee's report has quite rightly taken on board views on this student care and also on school meals. These were perhaps two of these things, if you think about this transition to remote education across Finland, where perhaps the most variation was followed, and something was very successful and something was a little less successful. This is certainly a point in which, of course, considering that the situation had not been prepared in any way, these things had to be taken into account, as it were, and the possibilities for municipalities to react to these situations were quite different, but I am sure that all of this has now become wiser and will then be better taken into account in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u132	Mr President, ärade talman! Vi behandlar nu alltså den temporära ändringen av bland you give den grundläggande utbildningen — en åtgärd som upkommit långt av coronans framfart i vårt land. Den ändringen ger utbildningsordnarna vöjligheten att genom eget beslut övergå till exceptionella undervisningsarrangemang, till exempel distansuvising ifall en andra våg av coronaviruset kommer — allt för att förebygga smittspridningen och för att säkerstalla att undervisningen också fungerar. Its tidigare drunker inte lagen om den grundläggande utbildningen till begrepet distansundervisning, det är vart att notera. Det rauh förslaget, som gäller tilligt under hösten fram till 31 December, är smidigt och ger öjlighet att agera snabbt om så krävs. Besluten fattas lokalt, till och med skolvis, och utgångspunkten ska alltid vara närundervisning. Bra att vi nu får ett beslut kring det rai så att utbildningsordnarna kan förbereda sig, och framför allt att undervisnings- och kulturministeriet samt Utbildningstyrelsen ger tydliga och bra instruktioner om det krävs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u133	Mr President! The spring transition to remote education was carried out in the framework of the Emergency Act. We are now updating the Basic Education Act to enable distance education in cases where the Act on communicable diseases requires the closure of schools or schools. This change is temporary, for the management of the current corona epidemic. The purpose is to ensure that the student’s right to education is implemented safely. The government's proposal will enable the development of the corona epidemic to be reacted to by the teacher. The situation in the coming autumn can only be guessed, but it is important to prepare now that it is possible. The committee considers local education to be an absolute priority, but distance learning has developed during the spring and is a necessary way of teaching under exceptional circumstances. Distance learning periods should be as short as possible, but proportional to the situation of infection. The committee is unanimous in its report and the hearings involved a broad picture of the effects of distance learning and its estimated effects in the spring. The Committee considers it absolutely essential that the Ministry of Education and Culture continue to monitor the impact of the corona situation on the well-being and learning of children and young people. There is never any reason why children and young people should not be consulted in the decision-making process. The distance teaching period has been difficult for children, teachers and families alike. At school, both students and teachers are more strongly supported by the school community. Loneliness emerged as a concern of many students, as hobby activities have also been on break. According to a study by the University of Turku, the students felt that the most impact on learning and well-being was on how the teacher was connected, what it was like. This same idea is also highlighted in the parents ’ answers: how the teacher kept in touch with the family affected the experience of distance teaching. This supports the idea that the school’s social relations play an important role in learning, motivation and well-being. Some of the challenges have been linked to a major digitalisation: there is still a lack of tools and skills for teachers. These have put children in an unequal position even within schools. The Committee stresses that in the field of distance learning, student care, learning support, such as special education, support education, assistant or school guidance, must also be available. According to the survey, several students have experienced inadequate support for their well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u134	Mr President! This proposal therefore proposes a temporary amendment of the Basic Education Act and the Helsinki European School Act. It is proposed to include temporary provisions on the exceptional organisation of education in the Basic Education Act and the Helsinki European School Act. According to the proposal, the organiser of education could, by decision, switch to extraordinary teaching arrangements. The purpose of the proposal is to prevent the possible spread of the corona virus, if the second wave comes, to alleviate its disadvantages and to ensure the safe provision of teaching in accordance with the Basic Education Act. It is a question of the flexibility of the teacher to move to distance education if such a situation occurs. Here again, as I said, there is a real prospect of a possible second wave of epidemics. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs was very much in agreement on this point that this law could now be adopted and then put into effect and then until the end of December would be in force. We also discussed whether this type of regulation could also be made permanent in law. Indeed, I myself have suggested that distance learning should also be used outside the corona epidemic, for example in other exceptional circumstances. We may have a fire, we may have water damage, so the students are unable to be there in their own school and class, and I therefore believe that such an opportunity should be a flexible, agile task for the organiser. Rare languages are also available to use distance learning in order to get a group together. Then, of course, we also have such situations for young people, such as anxiety, possibly depression, mental illness, or some other disorder that would make sense to study there from home or from remote education. Of course, the main rule must be in local education, and distance learning cannot be a means of saving, but in strictly defined situations this should be possible. When asked about this, representatives of the ministry, experts, said that this will of course be clarified in greater detail, and I am very pleased that my written question was also answered that such an investigation is now being carried out. There have been good speeches this evening on what was good, according to the study, but then on the challenges of distance learning, such as school food and then student care, where there were difficulties in some areas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u135	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Basic Education Act and the Helsinki European School Act temporarily in relation to the period after the covid-19 epidemic and in relation to the implementation of distance education. The past spring has been difficult for many families when children have been in home education, and for many teachers a real challenge when suddenly they have had to develop teaching material to work remotely. I am sure we all agree that the whole distance learning in that timetable was well carried out, but there were many problems with it. In spring, the closure of schools was carried out on a stand-by basis, and in this context it is planned to make changes to the normal laws so that schools can be closed through normal laws and, if necessary, through the Act on communicable diseases. It is therefore important to be able to use a more flexible instrument, the Act on communicable diseases, in which case regionalism can also be taken into account. One problem that arose during this epidemic was that all schools and pupils across Finland were treated in the same way, although the epidemic situation varied considerably. One of the flaws was the school meal, which also varied from one municipality to another, and that is what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has now drawn attention to, that it is part of basic education and that everyone should have it. Vulnerable children are easily overshadowed and do not make a sound. On the other hand, the positive experiences of distance education are emerging, but vulnerable children have suffered in this way in a certain way, and the effects they have had during the corona epidemic will certainly then be treated afterwards as mental health problems through child protection if there have been difficult situations in their families. The Committee has paid a great deal of attention to student care, and that is very important. Too many student care staff were transferred to do other tasks, even laid off, and then did not go for the same purpose as in remote education and even more, especially for children who are disadvantaged. I would also highlight the importance of school health care and vaccination and care for others.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u136	Mr President! It is also very important to take into account the fact that some of the students are better off at school in distance education. This is reflected in these studies for the students. The answers show that despite long - term work against bullying, bullying has not disappeared from schools, but too many students still experience the school as a distressing place. We must take this even more seriously, and we must now decide whether or not to adopt legislation on distance learning. In order to achieve educational equality under exceptional circumstances and to better support the well-being of children and young people, it is extremely important to reach all children and families during the distance learning period. Unfortunately, this has not yet been achieved. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stressed in particular the specific requirements arising from the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Provisions on accessibility and accessibility mean that people with disabilities must have equal access to different arrangements and services, such as the physical environment, transport, information and communication. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs stressed that the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is also in force under exceptional circumstances. And, as several representatives have already said, equality also requires that this meal, free, free school food, be carried out regardless of the municipality of residence. It is not sustainable that some municipalities did not organise meals, and in the future we must ensure that meals are arranged. Not all concerns were resolved in the report of the Committee on Culture and Education and in the government's draft law. It is important that the guidance provided by the Finnish National Board of Education ensures that, when the disease arises again, children of families in which children cannot take part in contact education because of the risk situation of a family member are entitled to distance education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u137	Ärade talman, Mr President! As Mr Hopsu has mentioned here, this The guidance of the Finnish National Board of Education is now of paramount importance that the providers of education be able to prepare quickly for this. And another thing to remember here is that these digital devices and educational materials can be offered equally to everyone in Finland. This also includes the know-how of teachers, and it should be remembered that about 20% of teachers said that they do not have the skills to provide this distance education. This continuing training of teachers is quite important in this respect too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u138	Mr President! Even now, when the previous speech ended so short, I will just say that, as has been said here, there are both good and bad experiences of this spring and early summer situations when distance learning was moved. This was quite an effort for all the teachers. Thank you all for your tremendous performance and also for the students and their parents! But in all areas, it wasn't exactly like in Strömsö. There was a message from many localities that school counselors had been laid off, then school nurses, for example, had been transferred from student care to care for the elderly. These are things that should not have been done, because we experts in the committee were very concerned about precisely these so-called care students, the students who are in difficult situations in life. There may be family poverty with children, and now families may also have unemployment and alcohol consumption, possibly mental problems. And these are the very vulnerable children who feel badly there when they are in remote education. Just as Mr Hopsu said, it is a success that is very much correlated with the kind of support that has been given at home, but then also with the possibility for teachers to give their support to these students. When you do not see that child or young person daily, then there may be a great deal of these problems. That is why I have said that now that we are on the student care side, so to speak, in the normal state and I hope that the nurses have been admitted to school health care and that the lay-offs have now been dismantled, I really hope that now we will see these students, who have been concerned about them, more intensively. I would argue that in that two-week period, when this local education was raised up, there was not much for these care students to think about the help, because it took quite a lot of time to arrange that there was safety intervals and hygiene care. And that is why I would say that it would be good for every child and young person to meet that student care person, even during this summer, because it is not possible to think this way that the summer will end these wounds, absolutely not. That is why I hope that we will then return to these assessments when we receive more information through the information studied. Next autumn, we will see how we can deal with these problems. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u139	Mr President! As I told you in the previous presentation, my family has had both a matriculation examination and a young person who completes their comprehensive school, so I have been able to follow the articles and the distance learning that has taken place at school, at home. I must say that we must raise the hat not only to the students but also to the students at school and to the students, but also to the teachers. That's a great performance. In Espoo, I was able to follow the activities of the Saarnilaakso school, and it was great to see that distance learning is going well and that the teacher was also present. The screen was used to give instructions and counsel, and the hours began at a certain time in the morning and ended according to the schedule. However, this was not the case everywhere, and this was also the case with questions from parents who had more young children there to care for and follow a distance school. We have learned from this, but a very large digital leap has been made, and it is a good thing that the possibility of distance schooling is continued. With this government proposal, it is proposed to include temporary provisions on the exceptional organisation of teaching. According to the proposal, the organiser of education could, by decision, switch to extraordinary teaching arrangements. Under the Act on communicable diseases, the authorities have the power to close schools and educational establishments, for example, and to impose restrictions on gatherings. If education cannot be safely arranged as local education, it is necessary to limit the local coronavirus epidemic situation. It is important to prepare for the coming autumn, the coming winter, next year. We do not know what we have ahead of us, but you should be wise from afar and be prepared to continue your distance school. It is important for all children and young people to have digital devices in their own home, and if there is no home, they can be borrowed from school or somewhere else. It is very important that the rights of people with disabilities are taken into account and the provisions on accessibility and accessibility are also suitable for the provision of education through remote access. These accessibility and accessibility issues are very important. Regarding student care, it is very important that psychologists, school curators and nurses can also be reached and that the student can get there if necessary to overcome concerns. Also in the context of the coming autumn and the coming end of the year and next year, when these queues are going to be dismantled, if young people need to talk to a school curator or psychologist, it is important that those resources are also allocated in such a way that young people get back to studying as soon as possible and then also get to dismantle things in connection with the corona virus epidemic, if there have been concerns — as well as teachers. It is important to listen to teachers too, to support them in these times, when it has not been easy for them to do distance school.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u140	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented on the 22nd item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the report by Mr StVM 15/2020 will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law. I'm opening a conversation. — Ms Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u141	Mr President! In that parliamentary delegation debate, in the presence of the minister here, we had this debate, and it was actually quite one voice here that was surprised that why Finland had not already joined, because we, quite a few, thought that we had been parties to this agreement. Although we have had individual researchers involved in the work of this vaccine institute, we have not been involved as a state, and now it is time to correct this. Surely this corona epidemic has caused us to want to join this vaccine institute as well. But, Mr President, it is a unanimous motion, and it is good to take it forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u142	Mr President! The government's proposal to the Parliament to approve and enforce the agreement establishing the International Vaccine Institute is justified and the committee was unanimous in this. The International Vaccine Institute is an international organisation for the promotion of vaccine research and development launched by the United Nations Development Programme in 97 years and is cooperating internationally in the field of vaccine research, product development and capacity building, and in this context it is now proposed that Finland become part of this institution. Good international vaccine research is carried out in Finland, and experts have also felt that Finland’s accession to this international group is justified. At the same time, we will be able to be at the forefront of international research and perhaps also, for our part, to ensure that we are at the forefront of the field of availability of vaccines. There are many sectors where work needs to be done on the vaccine field, and this is one part of it. The committee considered it important that the use of the resources of the vaccine institute be carefully monitored. Although it is not a matter of large sums of money that Finland puts there, it is really important to monitor the impact of all such funds, which we put forward internationally, and how they are used. This is a very welcome and good proposal and, as Mr Essayah has pointed out here, it is a miracle that we have not already done so before, but now, with the covid-19 epidemic, it is well founded at this stage at the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u143	Mr President! It is important that the corona contains the medicine and the vaccine. It's really important to get them fixed soon. Domestic production is also important, and it needs to be invested in. Inventing a vaccine is not so simple either, because it may be that the virus is changing, and the same vaccine may not always happen in the following years. We need to invest in this, and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considered this to be a good idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u144	Mr President! This government proposal proposes that Parliament adopt the Convention of 28 October 1996 on the establishment of the International Vaccine Institute, as amended on 8 October 1997, on 1 July 2004, by means of agreements concluded in 2006, 2012 and 2013 and the implementation of the provisions of the Act on the law. The essential content of the agreement is to describe the legal status, objectives, principles, tasks and governance structure of the vaccine institute. By agreement, the International Vaccine Institute has been established as an international organisation, and by joining this agreement, Finland commits itself to the provisions of the Treaty and Finland becomes a member of the organisation. Of course, this will also cost Finland some of the costs, but it is good that we are involved, so that, even when a vaccine may be invented for the coronavirus epidemic, we will benefit from it and make it available to our citizens. Mr President! I have pointed out in several contexts that it is also important to explore the possibility of re-launching Finnish vaccine production. That was abolished about 17 years ago in Finland, and surely the cost was one of the reasons. But now that we see where this world can go and what surprising situations are ahead, all Finnish know-how and know-how must be taken over and equipped for the worst, including that self-sufficiency. It would be good if the government were to investigate the possibility of relaunching this domestic vaccine production. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-22-ps-98.u145	Mr President, värderade talman! Det är fint att Finland nu blir en fullvärdig medlem av det internationella vaccininistutet.
