ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to which the Committee on Culture gives an opinion on its own property. In this context, discussion will also be allowed on the 4th and 6th issues of the agenda. on the subject. A maximum of 2 hours shall be reserved for the joint referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u2	Mr President! The Government aims to slow down and prevent the spread of the corona virus in Finland, to secure the capacity and carrying capacity of our healthcare services throughout the country, and to protect people particularly at risk. We are trying to slow down and prevent the epidemic from progressing by reducing people-to-people contacts and mobility through restrictive measures. To succeed, we need the help of Finnish people. For everyone’s part, recommendations and restrictions need to be followed in order to control the spread of the virus. Each of us has a responsibility to protect his or her own health, the health of his or her loved ones and fellow human beings. Finland will also survive this crisis when we work together. Mr President! The spread of the corona virus has been closely monitored since the beginning of the year. All parliamentary groups have been informed of the situation and the Prime Minister's announcement of Finland's preparedness for the coronavirus was sent to Parliament in February. The Korona virus was added to the list of communicable diseases of general concern by decree of the Government on 14 February. At the beginning of March, the Government decided to cancel public events until the end of May, to limit close contacts to protect groups at risk, to give priority to telework, to avoid travelling and to quarantine two weeks of returning from epidemic areas, and to increase the testing of the disease. On 16 March, in cooperation with the President of the Republic, the Council of State stated that the exceptional conditions in Finland as a result of the coronavirus pandemic existed. On the same day, the government issued a series of new measures. These included policies to suspend local education at different levels of education, to restrict meetings of more than ten people in public places, to close public spaces such as libraries and museums, sports and leisure facilities, and to ban visits to housing services for elderly and other high-risk groups, care facilities, health care units and hospitals. It was recommended that private and third sector operators and religious communities close the premises. Finland started preparations for the reintroduction of border controls and it was decided to suspend passenger and passenger transport. The Code of Conduct required those over 70 years of age to avoid close contact. On 17 March, the Government adopted two regulations on the introduction of the Emergency Act to the Parliament, which, among other things, allowed restrictions on the sale of medicines, goods and services used in health care, intervened in the organisation of education, education and social and health care services, and extended the period of notice for health care, social services, rescue services and emergency services. On Friday, 20 March, the government presented measures to preserve jobs and a large total of EUR 15 billion to support businesses and people. In cooperation with the Parliamentary Committee on Finance, direct subsidies were significantly increased to help small and medium-sized enterprises over the course of the crisis. On Tuesday 24 March, the government submitted a bill to the Parliament to close restaurants, cafés and restaurants for a limited period of time to avoid close contact. In connection with the same entity, a Government decree has been issued to Parliament yesterday on Tuesday. . On Wednesday, 25 March, the Government issued a decree to Parliament on the introduction of the powers provided for in Article 118 of the Emergency Act, and on 27 March a decree was issued to Parliament in a corrected form. Parliament adopted the regulation on the same day. The regulation restricts the movement of persons to and from the territory of the province of Uusimaa until 19 April. On Monday of this week, the government decided to start preparations urgently to tighten border traffic at the northern and western borders, and discussions are currently taking place with neighbouring countries. The Government also directed the abolition of passenger and passenger transport by ship, except for freight and freight transport. This issue is still under discussion with Åland and neighbouring countries. In addition, in accordance with the Government’s policy, sampling and testing will be further increased in Finland to investigate coronavirus cases and control the epidemic. Social and health care personnel must always be tested if there is even a slight suspicion of illness. The testing has been systematically increased. Mr President! It is estimated that restrictions on movement and other measures already in force have slowed down the spread of the virus in the population. However, according to the assessment by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the National Institute for Health and Welfare, it is necessary to extend the limitation measures and operating guidelines beyond 13 April. The measures are therefore being dismantled and there are strong grounds for their continuation. The Government considers that earlier, 13.4. the restrictive measures imposed should therefore continue until 13 May 2020. Mr President! The Government has adopted regulations on the continuation of the exercise of powers under the Emergency Act. The Regulations will continue the activities previously decided by the Government, for which the Regulations will expire on 13 April 1920. The current regulations will continue to apply the powers until 13 May 2020. A total of four Government Regulations have been adopted in relation to the measures: Government Decree on Emergency Response Act 86, 88, 93, 94 and 109 On the basis of Article 87 of the Emergency Act, the Regulation on the extension of the powers provided for in Article 87 of the Emergency Act, the Regulation on the introduction of the powers provided for in Article 87 of the Emergency Act and the Regulation on the extension of the powers provided for in Article 95(2) of the Emergency Act and the application of Articles 96 to 103 of the Emergency Act. The Government wants to continue to limit local education at different levels of education. This means that the special arrangements for teaching will continue on 13. Adopted by the Commission on 15 May. The education will mainly continue as distance learning. The government’s recommendation is still that children in early childhood education, pre-school education and first, second and third grade stay at home if families are able to do so. The regulations will continue to use the competences of the Emergency Act to guide the social welfare and health care intervention units. If necessary, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Regional State Administrative Agency may rapidly adopt binding decisions to modify the activities of the social welfare and health care function units. The right granted to municipalities to derogate from the time limits for urgent care of health care will be extended. In social services, the regulation is specified in such a way that it is possible for municipalities to waive the deadline for starting the assessment of the need for services. In addition, the Government will continue with the regulation to respond to the shortage of personnel resulting from the virus epidemic. The employer may temporarily derogate from the arrangements for working time and annual leave in health care and social services, rescue services, emergency centre operations and police services. Mr President! While adopting a regulation extending the powers to restrict the sale of medicinal products, goods and services in healthcare, the Government has also given Parliament a regulation extending the powers of Article 87 of the Emergency Act, i.e. the new implementing regulation. The aim is to ensure the availability of medicinal products and essential medical supplies and the functioning of the distribution chain in Finland. Mr President! The progression of the epidemic is closely monitored. The need and necessity for action will be reassessed in the event of a material change in the epidemic situation. If the conditions for the application of the Regulations are no longer met, the Regulations shall be repealed before 13 May.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u3	Mr President! The Christian Democrats support the Government's decision to extend the use and application of Articles 86, 88, 93, 94 and 109 of the Emergency Act and Articles 95 and the resulting Articles 96 to 103 of the Act and to introduce and extend the powers of Article 87. In this context, it is also worth agreeing with the thanks given earlier by the government to the citizens, who have not only complied with the legislation but also voluntarily restricted their behaviour to the fact that this epidemic and crisis would not spread at the rate of the worst scenarios. Indeed, in this context, the state must do everything in its power to provide us with adequate human and operational resources for health care and other key functions of society, and with these various limitation measures we will then be able to best protect the most vulnerable elderly and at-risk groups and to compensate for the burden of health care during this epidemic. The Prime Minister listed these measures here, and it is of the utmost importance that we should be able to respond to them by the fact that we have an obligation to work and also by addressing the conditions of employment and the restrictions on dismissal. Restrictions on the sale of medicines, goods and services are also appropriate when they relate to this use of healthcare. Similarly, there is a need to reduce the deadlines for complying with urgent care and assessing the need for social care services when we are dealing with this most important issue, namely the adequacy of healthcare resources. In this context, it is also worth taking note of the news this morning about the establishment of an Operations Centre, which certainly makes sense, as a coordinating body is needed to ensure the rapid start of cross-sectoral preparation. This crisis is about people's lives and health, and there is no room for mistakes or delays. The government has rightly recognised, among other things, errors in the reception of migrants at airports and insufficient testing and lack of protective equipment. There have also been mixed national practices in the guidance of health care staff on self-interest testing and return to work, and it is indeed necessary that such an operational group should now be able to ensure, intersectorally, that this type of confusion or delays in these very important matters do not occur in the future. In this context, I would also like to raise the issue of public services, housing units for people with disabilities, housing units for people with mental disabilities, where there has been a rumour that there have been guidelines that, in the case of interest rates, these people would not be taken to the assessment of the need for care or would not be taken to the services of health care, and when I see that the Minister for Social Affairs and Health is also here, I hope that there is an opportunity here to hear how the news has now come from that field and whether it can be true. This is an extremely serious violation of the dignity of every human being if this type of guidance has been given. At the same time, the government must, of course, take immediate action to reduce the financial impact of these restrictive measures. Last week, in the Committee on Budgets, we were allowed to take historic decisions, to add more than EUR 800 million to the EUR 200 million that the government had brought in in its proposal. Municipalities, businesses, private people are losing their livelihoods now need immediate support to overcome this difficult situation, and if I have understood correctly, these additional budgets are coming down this spring, and in this context I would like to give the Prime Minister and other ministers, who are in the box, quite a hint that now that the spending limits are in front of us, it is indeed time to put that government programme in a scrap heap and now to start thinking about how to get out of this crisis, how we will be able to maintain the viability of Finnish society and how we will be able to ensure that we return to normal everyday life. It is indeed understandable that, in a situation of this kind, we are not seeking, for example, 60,000 additional jobs; it is now important that we can even restore those existing jobs. But it is equally understandable that such proposals as extending the compulsory school age should also be dropped. If we are thinking of students who are currently in remote school, there have been huge differences in learning between children over these weeks, and when they return to school, they certainly need to return to that normal routine, that normal everyday life, and teachers too face a double challenge: they have had to stretch now in this situation and quickly arrange this distance education. In two weeks, we have had a digital leap in education that would not have been achieved under normal conditions in two years, but at the same time it has also clearly increased the inequality between students and also the danger that special needs children and children who need additional support will fall from this education and education. And now that the education sector itself has called for no further changes in the context of this change, I hope that this message will now go from the government to the Minister for Education, Mr Andersson, that, in this situation, it is extremely important that we are now able to support the children back in the way they are taught, without any new reforms being introduced, especially when we consider that the economic situation is going to be extremely challenging and that we certainly need all the money to ensure that we are able to secure the school path for children and young people and that they are able to move forward in their lives and return to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u4	We still have 29 requests for the floor. I would ask that we focus on the issues mentioned in the title.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u5	Mr President! We are currently at war as a nation. We are at war with an invisible enemy called the corona virus. Unfortunately, this war has already claimed the lives of many people in Finland and even more worldwide. The greatest disgust of this enemy, the corona, lies in the fact that it is particularly harmful to the most vulnerable, such as the sick, the elderly and the disabled, and it is precisely because of the most vulnerable, that we need the preparedness law that we are talking about today. Mr President! We Members of Parliament are certainly concerned about the health and well-being of Finns, but in particular we must be concerned about our children. Finnish child welfare has already been in a very difficult situation under normal circumstances. For their part, schools have supported families in coping, but now they too are closed. We have thousands of children who live in conditions where no child should live. When a home is not a refuge but a source of insecurity, it makes this moment a direct hell for many children. The government should therefore soon allocate sufficient resources to child protection, and as part of the assessment of the Emergency Act, it should also consider its impact on children. As a former child welfare worker, I am deeply concerned and saddened about the children most severely affected by the corona virus. Please, government, make sure they get help. Mr President! As a representative of Parliament, I would like to keep track of how Finland and the Finns are doing during the preparedness law. Therefore, I would ask that ministries monitor and report to Parliament often enough on the general situation of Finland and Finns, focusing on social welfare and health services, internal security, education and the economy, for example. Mr President! Finally, I would like to draw attention to the importance at the moment of making sure that the helper is not to be helped, because otherwise we will run out of helpers. More special attention should be paid to the work of social welfare and health care staff, as the peak of the crisis has not yet been reached. Social and health care staff are the most important resource for society to overcome the corona epidemic and care for their ability to work and their ability to work is of paramount importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u6	Mr President! The Prime Minister has just told us that the restrictive measures taken in our country have already proved their effectiveness, but they are still needed — full support for the government in these actions when the restrictive measures are extended until 13 May. We are faced with a wretched enemy because we do not know its behavior and we cannot anticipate it and we do not know all that is to come. That is why it is very important that we try to be at the forefront in this way, so to speak, with regard to these restrictive measures. Yesterday I went to my child’s school in the yard of a village school. The yard was very quiet, and I thought that it was very possible that even in this yard the children’s recess votes would not be heard until August. We do not yet know what will happen, but I too would like to draw attention to children, whose lives are affected in so many ways by these restrictive measures. I hope that we can have national decisions on the organisation of school meals, for example, because at the moment children are in a very unequal position as to whether the municipality offers school food to people in remote education and in what way, such as lunch bags or food money. Many municipalities have been very self-initiative and creative here, but many children are also excluded from this school meals altogether, and this is a very big issue for many families financially. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether this is planned, and I would like to encourage clear national policies to be found on this issue of school food. Mr President! I would also like to point out that Finland is not closed or closed, but still has to and may ask for help if it is needed. Today, the Government announced that the Government will strengthen its resources and communication by setting up an operation centre in its office, and this is very good and important. In communication, too, attention must be paid to the fact that citizens have a clear knowledge that help can be sought and that, in an exceptional situation, our social and health services also function in such a way that help is sought for all those in need. I wish for strength and patience for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u7	Mr President! All the issues in this debate are well-founded and worthy of support, but there are a few topical issues that I would like to discuss here. First of all, I am pleased that, as I have heard, many municipalities have started to deal with the crisis caused by the corona epidemic, with emphasis on the interests of children and families with children. Professional teachers have been able to start distance education on a fast schedule, but it is harder for many children to study at home when the teacher is not in the same way giving personal help in problem situations. The need for support for learning can grow in distance education, and more pupils are likely to need support for learning. It is therefore important not to lay off school counselors, for example, but to train them to carry out remote guidance. In addition, it is positive that many municipalities have invested in student care and family counselling in early childhood education and that, for example, school curator and school psychologist services and family counselling services work normally, but are now at a distance. Last week, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took the view that school food is part of basic education. This has also progressed in many places, and various creative solutions have been found as to how food can be distributed so that there is no risk of infection. Group size limits should also be taken into account in schools and day-care centres so that group sizes are kept at maximum by 10. Adults should also be included in this chapter. I have heard that not all municipalities, schools and day-care centres comply with this recommendation. However, if the ultimate purpose of the restrictive recommendations has been correctly understood, they must be respected everywhere. In these circumstances, it is important that children's rights also guide decision-making in municipalities. The better we can take care of children and families now, the easier it will be to return to normal everyday life and to a normal learning path after the epidemic has passed. I therefore hope that there will be sufficient support in the spending limits debate to ease the financial situation of municipalities so that they do not have to resort to large-scale layoffs. In addition to helping children and families with children, municipalities should retain sufficient resources to help and support older people and other vulnerable people and to develop new forms of distance services, in addition to increasing social costs. Mr President! The second point I would like to mention is the clarity of the guidelines in the social welfare and health services. I hope that there will be a clear division of labour between the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the THL, for example, so that the guidelines are consistent. In fact, a couple of days ago, the Nurses’ Association conducted a survey of their members on the situation of home care, and even the daily changing instructions and deficiencies in protective equipment were seen as the main problem of handling this corona situation well. The nurses who answered the questionnaire feared that the virus would spread through professionals. In many places in home care, employees do not have protective equipment, you go to the customers without masks, protective gloves and gloves. Employees even go from the customer to the other person in their own clothes. There is a need for clear and unambiguous national guidance on the use of protective equipment for home care and home care and on all other issues related to the management of the epidemic. Otherwise, the social system itself has the weak link that at its worst knocks down the adequacy of intensive care facilities. It seems that the guidance of the ministry has now been clarified, but there was a great deal of uncertainty about these conflicting guidelines in the municipalities. The more instructions there are, the more uncertainty and suspicion. The sense of safety comes from the fact that all communication and instructions are the same at every level. The last point that has now been raised in the Ministry is the concerns and fears expressed by Kynnys ry as to whether access to treatment for people with mental disabilities will be restricted in the event of a shortage of intensive care facilities. I really hope that the concern that has arisen is a question of misunderstanding and misinterpretation, because it is serious in terms of equality and human rights if something has been interpreted in this way. The Ministry's statement has now clarified this issue and rightly states that no group of people can be excluded from intensive care. I hope that in future even more will be ensured that this is not happening. One more thing, Mr President: Last week, the Constitutional Committee had to use the rights of access to Article 47 of the Constitution in order to obtain explanations which it felt should have made available on its own initiative. The committee also recorded this in its report. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has to take a position on such fundamental restrictions on fundamental rights that we hope that all relevant information will be made available to the committee immediately from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u8	Mr President! These proposals brought here by the government are necessary and necessary, and thank you to the government for them. At the same time, however, we should now consider what we can do to ensure that these measures, which severely restrict civil liberties and also undermine the economy, can be used for as short a time as possible to ensure that they are as short as possible. That is why I hope that the government will, in a clearer way, adopt a corona strategy, not only for the prevention of the disease and for the reduction of this peak, but for the suppression of the disease. Test, test, test — it has been the advice of the World Health Organization. A massive corona hospital was built in China in eight days, and I cannot believe that there is no strong testing and tracking of the transmission chains in Finland if only political will exists. This procedure could avoid Corona Deaths, Bankruptcy and severe and long-term restrictions on civil rights. According to press reports, medical adviser Mikko Paunio from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has commented on this practice of testing Iceland, which also tests low-symptoms and asymptomatic, and found that it is likely that they will be able to control the disease very quickly, i.e. that the epidemic peak will soon be reached there. I am still encouraging this. I know that the government is increasing the testing capacity, but I am encouraging it even more strongly. The second point is that the use of masks and protective equipment in everyday life has been somewhat understated and even stopped, but there is also evidence that they can reduce the spread of infections. Of course, the most important thing is that health care has protective equipment at its disposal, but the benefits that, for example, face masks have in everyday life are that, first of all, they can reduce the infectivity of people who are asymptomatic or with low symptoms and then cough or sneeze, and that they also reduce facial contact, and then there is evidence that a milder disease can be caused if they use the mask themselves because they get a lower dose of viruses. Then, Mr President, I would like to raise one point. I received a rather touching message late at night from a woman who says: “Because of her fear of weektime, she has used a lot of alcohol,not in her full life. That's what's causing a lot of noise and screaming. I have already been away from home four nights in a week.” Yes, this problem of alcohol is a major problem, and it should also be stated clearly in general terms in this culture of underpants. I hope that Mr Pekonen, the Minister responsible for alcohol policy, will comment at some point on whether you have considered taking any action on alcohol policy now in this situation of interest rate, where it is easily culminated in domestic violence and the suffering of the rest of the family at home. We already have some 70,000 children living in families where one parent has a drinking problem. Finally, Mr President, we in this House are fortunate not to have any corona infection yet, but the risk of it growing day by day and moment, and quite a lot of us now, including myself, in this Chamber too, far beyond the limits of assembly. But here I would like to thank the Bureau for the fact that, in this situation, for example, there has now been no debattisation, because the situation of the debatt will then further tempt us to be here and wait for the floor. And now, thanks to the Bureau, we also have the chance that each of us can also sit in our own room and follow this debate and then come in for our speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u9	Mr President! We constantly have to balance the health effects of the corona virus and the financial difficulties and impacts they bring. At the same time as we are trying to minimise the harm to human health from the corona virus, we must also ensure that economic difficulties do not impose an even greater burden on people's well-being. The situation is now being monitored in real time and incessantly. We are well aware that uncertainty about the future and unpredictability are major causes of human distress and anxiety. The Corona virus won't let us know when it's willing to give up. Nor does it announce where it is hiding, but with the right action and timing it can be strangled. Therefore, in order to protect life and facilitate preparation, decisions should be taken as early as possible. Of course, that is not an easy task. President! The National Institute for Health and Welfare and many other experts have estimated that the epidemic will spread rapidly and the number of cases will not peak during the current regulations, i.e. by 13 April. There are, therefore, still strong grounds for using the powers and possibilities of the Act of Preparedness. Due to the evolution of the epidemic, the need for regulation is growing during the spring. The effect of slowing down the epidemic is the combined effect of several different measures. Every person’s own actions also have a very big impact on how restrictive measures affect and how effective they are. We all know that this time is a very challenging and difficult time for each of us. We limit the obligation to organise treatment without haste, restrict the right to contact teaching, restrict the freedom of business, restrict border traffic, travel, public events, deviate from the regulations on annual leave and working hours. So we are tackling many very sacred civil rights. We target restrictions and deviations because we safeguard human health. That is the starting point of all of this. The restrictions so far have been important, as the Prime Minister has said, but more has to be done. So I would like to thank the government for the measures that have been taken, but above all I would like to wish you well and with great wisdom in these times of difficulty.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u10	Mr President! We are now discussing the continuation of the powers laid down in several paragraphs of the Emergency Act. First of all, I would like to highlight the provisions of the Working Time Act on rest periods and overtime and the annual leave Act on health care, social services, rescue services, emergency centre operations and police activities throughout the national territory. In exceptional circumstances, it is important that staff are sufficient for these important tasks, and it is understandable that there will then be staff and that there will also be a derogation from these agreements. However, it is now also important to note that the staff are able to cope with this burden. The workload will continue to grow. I would also like to highlight a sufficient number of protective equipment, which currently raises a great deal of concern in the field. Protective equipment is an essential support for maintaining health care performance in this demanding work against coronavirus, and therefore health care personnel need all the protection based on the latest information, clear instructions for use and adequate protective equipment. As has already been pointed out in previous speeches, this guidance on protective equipment in the kingdom has been very confusing and operators have not known what instructions to follow now. And if there have been any instructions, there has been no amount of such equipment that those instructions could then have been followed in the municipalities there. Last night, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has issued new instructions on protective equipment for home care, which say, among other things: a mouth-nosed cover or a scarf. It was incomprehensible that it was proposed that home care workers put their own scarf on. Is it meant to be washed in their own home in a washing machine? These are completely inconceivable instructions, and it is not confident that there will actually be enough equipment if, at this stage, there is no such equipment in the field when these security stocks have been opened and we have been told that these protective equipment should be available. It is now necessary to clarify these guidelines in the field. These unclear and tangled instructions worry and burden the already burdened staff. Understandably, this virus also causes fear in the staff, and the staff must be able to trust that the instructions given to them are sufficient and can be trusted and that there are equipment that can protect themselves against this corona virus. It is vitally important that we have enough staff to carry out these tasks. Adequate protection has a clear impact on the risk of illness for health care personnel and also on the adequacy of intensive care facilities. Well, then the second point I would like to raise is these continuing restrictions on teaching. Most of the children are currently in remote education, and this also poses a major challenge in that we do not know what is going on with the children. There have been some worrying messages from the teachers that what if they can't get in touch with the children, and also from child welfare organisations, is that they're now afraid of what's going on at home. Alcohol consumption and income support problems have also grown in many families when work has stopped and there is not enough money. These can exacerbate situations at home and can also cause increased domestic violence. This is a very worrying situation. Part of this could be improved by having that school meal in the form of lunch bags, for example. Children could at least visit, and someone would see, at least visual contact with what that child looks like, and then, of course, through the school would come that contact and information about these possible service channels. I have also taken a measure initiative, which I am leaving today, to set up a national service phone for children. I strongly recommend that the government consider whether it would be possible to start this kind of national helpline for children, where they could then contact someone who would be open all the time and where there would be a professional answering and directing to the right place also those contacts that would require, for example, a local social and crisis emergency services statement, official action, and they would be directed to the right place. For example, children may not find them. Of course, there are many good telephone services maintained by organisations, but they are very fragmented and their service times are not necessarily suitable for children and young people. During this corona crisis, they need this kind of common service line that they even have the chance to use to help them. The ability of teachers is, of course, another issue that schools need to pay attention to, and also that there are sufficiently uniform guidelines from the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u11	Mr President! This is a Government regulation on the extension of the powers of the Emergency Act, and what we are doing here is very much to be welcomed. I am also very much in favour of the Centre of Operations to be set up in the Prime Minister's Office, which has been heard in the news today, in order to strengthen the management of the corona crisis, which is a good thing. Mr President! Florence Nightingale, the mother of nursing, the mother of handwashing, would certainly turn to her grave when she heard such different instructions as the citizens and we here in Parliament have heard about how we are going to combat this corona crisis. Asian researchers found that in their view, the biggest mistake in the United States and Europe has been that people do not wear masks. When the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Pasi Tuominen, on Monday at the A-Studio, showed the model of how a person can walk with a mask and rubber gloves on his hands, he gave some hint by his performance that it is time to make these actions available to all of us. Personally, at least I have thought that I will start using facial masks when I go to shops or go to the pharmacy to get medicines for those close to me who need them. Yes, people have to start protecting themselves. What do you say about whether health care guidelines and ideas are ‘protective and protective’,in some way nonsense is being told about,for example,the work of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health,that the use of facial masks could not help or prevent the spread As a nurse, I do disagree with you. I have protected myself several times at work and thought it would protect me, but it also protects that customer. So what do you think about this? And I also find it shocking that these masks of face still do not exist, for example, in home care or in the services sector. Last week I've received a message that there's one protection to be used all day. Is that the idea that you have sent forward, Minister? Having told you that now more masks and protective equipment are coming, are you sure that they will also spread everywhere and people will have access to them? Mr President! Fatigue leads to mistakes. I am very concerned about the health care staff: doctors, cleaners, nurses, nurses, local nurses, carers there. I would like to ask you: has there been a message from the healthcare field about the way in which the shifts have taken place? Have very long, round shifts been made, and how have these working time rules been implemented there? Nurses and doctors, that healthcare sector, is the one we all look at. We ask them for help, we trust them. They are actually our line that we are following, in which we are looking. There are a lot of people who need help there are people in intensive care who are on a respirator, and we trust that our loved ones are in good and safe hands, but how are nurses able to do their job? It is now hoped that more and more trained people, if they are currently laid off or are unemployed, would register and take up this common challenge, accept this common challenge and go to work in health care. However, we have now heard of this age limit, 67 years, that it is too high to think that these elderly people, including nurses, are particularly at risk of getting this virus. How do you answer this: is it realistic to expect older, retired nurses to come to work there as well? Mr President! I am also very concerned about these elderly and disabled people, who have also been raised here, and about their situation in the care of the elderly. There comes a dismal message from the loved ones that when they do not get to look at it with their loved ones, what happens there in the care of the elderly. I would like to ask you, Minister: How do you now follow the care of the elderly when the doors are closed and the relatives cannot see, are unable to help in morning activities, evening activities, what they have done for years very often, helped in eating, and they have great concern about how the loved one is doing there? In what way does the message pass from the unit to the relative, and does this supervision of care for the elderly still exist, however, that it is not compromised? I wish for strength and patience for you, good government, as well as for all of us Finns and great will for every step and movement we take to be a counterattack against the corona, that we take care of Florence Nightingale's idea of handwashing. He made a health-care crusade in the 20th century. His themes were cleanliness, ventilation and defiling, and I would see these actions as very important here too. He was — as Mr Haatainen, I am sure you also know — in the wartime of Florence Nightingale, developing a tremendous amount of good treatment and is a pioneer in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u12	Mr President! Thank you for the work you have done for the ministers and for the decisions that have been brought before us. Much has been done, much remains to be done. Good things have been done and mistakes have been made. Even confessing to mistakes is acceptable. In fact, it will increase the credibility of all of us, because these situations are certainly not easy, and when we dare to admit that mistakes have been made, it will also remove the blade from unnecessary criticism. I represent the opposition myself. I am not happy to go on criticising vain things and not really criticising them at all, but rather to support and encourage and then give us tips and views on how to deal with something better. For example, this airport issue: it is a good thing that it has now been recognised together that there have been mistakes, slowness, and now we are taking all that lessons out of it and considering that the same mistakes would not happen elsewhere. It's the right way to go. One of the issues where problems can arise for all of us is food production, entrepreneurship and rural entrepreneurship in particular. Around 16,000 seasonal workers are needed in rural areas. Thousands of foreign workers have come to work in Finland in spring and summer. Now this income of workers has been disrupted, and I would like — and rural entrepreneurs in particular — to see rapid solutions to this issue. Decisions should be taken these days, during this month — well, in fact, these days, you can say because investment decisions, work decisions are now being made and then work is being taken in April—May and harvests will be collected later in the summer. Efforts must be made now that we have the workforce available in Finland — there are laid-off students from whom summer jobs have been cancelled — to make these people flexible for these seasonal jobs as well. We simply cannot afford the harvest season to be ruined by the fact that the labour force is not available for precisely those tasks, even though we have far too many under-employed and laid-off and unemployed people, in fact, and there is probably more to come. In other words, I hope that this is a matter of urgency, and if you could bet something on raising your hands there, then obviously something has already been planned, so that I hope that this will move forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u13	Mr President! I warmly support the extension of the paragraphs mentioned in this proposal until 13 May. However, there is good reason to believe that this situation is not over on 13 May, of course, because forecasts of when this epidemic of corona virus in Finland would have reached its point of law, so that the maximum number of infections would be... We hope it will come as soon as possible, but we should expect it to stay somewhere in the middle of the summer. This is the interpretation of the various experts I myself read that this might be the case. The most important thing, however, is that the Government has been firm so far and now there will be a new coordination group. I encourage it to work very closely and, above all, to have this same forward-looking approach all the time, because that is the only way we can react to this situation. There's no point in blaming anyone. I'm sure no one has been able to practice this kind of situation. This is the first post-war situation in which we have had to apply the preparedness laws. Mr Kiuru said very well about this labour force from abroad, which, for example, works on berry farms and in many other places — on farms there is a need for labour — and this is a rather strange situation. We practically have hundreds of thousands of unemployed people and we cannot find 16,000 people who would like to work for them. Yes, there is something wrong with this country if we are not able to deal with this sort of thing and encourage Finnish people to do these jobs. It is quite certain that, in the coming decades, there will be more of these crisis situations in different forms, and this will certainly not be the last, and if we do not have 16,000 people working in open jobs, they will be seasonal... When I myself spent most of my time in college doing practically just those seasonal jobs and financed my studies with them, I encourage our young people to do the same thing. Of course, even unpleasant situations sometimes arise, but they do increase for life. And another thing that I think is important is that we look at the time after this crisis, the time ahead. We must ensure that security of supply works in this country. We cannot drive agriculture down all the time, put farmers in a desperate position. There is a real crisis going on there at the moment because of past difficulties, and now this crisis, which we are now living in, brings much more severity to it. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you to be able to secure food security in this particular area. The best life insurance for this nation is its own food production under all circumstances, based on decentralised food production, which is managed by Finnish family farms. This is our life insurance policy, and it's not worth giving up. And it also applies to other industries in this country: let's start repatriating production to Finland, working for Finns and well-being. I claim that it is the best insurance in all ways in this crisis and in the crises that Finland will have to face in the next few decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u14	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Laiho. This is the kind of phone service you were doing for the kids. I am not sure whether such a thing already exists, and I know that, at the moment, there is an increase in grants to organisations because this kind of aid would also be provided. But I think that your idea of a telephone service for children, to whom you could call on a low threshold, and at the other end there would be a person who can talk with children and young people in particular, was a good idea, and we will definitely put it into the study. It is very possible that this is already being done. Then there were questions about management and this operation centre, about strengthening the management of the crisis. We have already gone to the beginning of last week to clean up and dismantle this whole management of ours, because we know and have found that we have had problems during the corona crisis, especially the Helsinki-Vantaa airport. So this work has started early last week, and this Monday the government has also gone through this whole. We have a COVID-19 coordination team, we have a meeting of emergency chiefs and a meeting of emergency secretaries, but now we have this separate mission centre to support them. In addition, the Prime Minister’s Office, in which this Centre of Operations is located, also has coordination of communications and the Government’s Situation Centre, which produces and has produced information for a long time on a daily basis, both for ministries and elsewhere. In other words, it is precisely because of the problems we have seen that we will be able to avoid in the future. Of course, I cannot promise that everything will go perfectly from now on, but we will do our best to get this whole thing under control. I personally recognise that one big challenge and the problem is that when it comes not only to the state administration, but also to the administration of municipalities and the health care districts, that is to say to the associations of municipalities, we face challenges in the fact that information passes and instructions are followed in all medical districts and in all municipalities, especially in terms of protection and how risk groups can be protected. So we have big challenges here, but we do our best to be able to solve them in advance. Mr Räsänen then asked about alcohol. I recognise this problem as well, and the Government has discussed this issue on a number of occasions. Alcohol is a problem in Finland under normal conditions, but it is also a problem in exceptional circumstances, and in these exceptional situations we will certainly see such mild phenomena that alcohol is increasingly used in some families and in some households, and this is something that needs to be taken seriously. Testing. The Government is already 12.3. Since then, in its own policies, the need for more testing has been emphasised. At every point, we have stressed the need for more testing, and it has also been systematically increased. And now the latest information: I know that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has worked hard to map out both the private testing capacity and the testing capacity of public health care, to strengthen it, and now my understanding is that it would be possible even to triple this testing capacity in the fast run. This is absolutely the will of the Government, and hopefully we will be able to expand the testing as quickly as possible. I would also like to say that we are holding an event today at 4 p.m. under the leadership of the parliamentary groups and the chairmen of the parties to review the situation picture of the epidemic, both material preparation and preparedness, as well as, for example, this testing. We now have experts there to respond to the concerns of parties and parliamentary groups as to whether different perspectives have been taken into account. I personally recognise that we have a lot of challenges at different points and, of course, efforts are being made to resolve them all the time. It can be said that it is absolutely certain that we will not completely succeed at every point, but we will do our best to resolve these situations. I also appreciate the fact that the Members of Parliament in this Chamber are expressing these concerns and messages from the public on the ground, and also the ideas of how we could then improve our response to this situation, such as that of Mr Laiho's telephone service for children. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u15	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank all the Members for their good speeches and for this good debate that has taken place in this Chamber today. Quite a number of representatives raised this issue of guidance for people with disabilities, which apparently has now been the subject of misunderstandings. People with disabilities are subject to the same instructions as any of us. Every one of us has human rights. Disability in itself is not a risk factor for the corona virus, but of course also for people with disabilities' own underlying diseases, long-term illnesses make them a risk group, and these people must therefore be taken into account in the same way as any of us who have some of the underlying diseases. The same applies to intensive care for people with disabilities: each of us should be treated as well as possible. President! There were many questions here regarding the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. I will now answer these questions to the extent that they belong to my own property. Mr Laiho raised the telephone service for the children, to which the Prime Minister has just referred, and I think it was also an excellent idea, precisely that these questions, the children's concerns, should be answered by a person who knows how to answer children in particular. Together with STEA, we are now opening up an additional search for grants related to this corona virus situation. Application period is short — starting on 6.4., ending on 22.4. — and this will be targeted at two entirely new entities. One of these is the extension of the digital services of psychosocial support and civic counselling, and I think that the idea of a telephone service for children raised by Mrs Laiho is excellent in this regard. Another entity is helping people and families in a challenging situation and at risk of social exclusion and psychosocial support, and I welcome the fact that we can increase these too. There have also been questions and speeches about protective equipment and masks in this Chamber, and it has to be said from the outset that there are now few two types of schools of interest in everyday life in the use of masks. I cannot instruct anyone in my personal life about wearing or not using masks, and in my opinion, everyone makes the decision whether or not to wear a mask like this in their daily lives. However, our primary task now is to safeguard the health and functional capacity of social and health care personnel and the ability of the testers to carry out these tests and to protect their health. As far as these situations of home care are concerned, it is quite true that the guidelines have been twofold, and that is why the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, under the leadership of Minister Kiuru, has clarified these guidelines. As far as masks are concerned, the normal working practices of home care do not really include these mouth protectors, and therefore, surely, the preparation of municipalities for such a situation has also been inadequate or weak. But at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health we can — and we will — support the municipalities in obtaining these if there is anything we can do to help. As indicated, preparedness stocks for these protective equipment have been opened, protective equipment has been delivered to all five special areas of responsibility and then to hospitals. I would also like to say that our security reserves are not empty. These have now been released, but we have not emptied stocks, there are still protective equipment in storage, and we are constantly completing these stocks. We have several different procurement routes, and we complement stocks not only on the international market, but fortunately also by domestic manufacturers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u16	Mr President! Many Members have raised concerns in their own speeches about the survival of children and young people in this exceptional situation, and that is, of course, our common concern. Teachers have already done and are still doing excellent work on the fact that teaching has now been transferred to be carried out through various exceptional teaching arrangements, including distance education, and especially now that this exceptional situation continues, at least until the middle of May, it is extremely important that all municipalities also focus on getting the support for learning in order and working during this period. Equally important is the personal contact of all students regardless of age. Here, among other things, Mrs Laiho was concerned about young people who have not been contacted at all by the media, and I myself have compared the situation to the fact that the student does not come to school on the spot. Even in such a situation, it is not possible for anyone at school to react at all if the student does not show up and does not show up at the school, but, of course, you have to contact the student first, if you cannot contact the student's guardians, and if this is not possible, then you have to make use of the support services we currently have and what you have had in the past, such as student and student care professionals or municipal social services. In other words, even in these times, guardians have a duty to ensure that all children and young people carry out their own schooling obligations. We also have excellent examples from many municipalities of how it has been possible to provide distance learning support. The skills of school instructors have been utilised, the competences of special teachers have been utilised, the competences of school psychologists and school curators have been utilised. There have been both personal meetings — of course, in accordance with these general hygiene and safety guidelines — and support for what is provided remotely, for example through a videoconferencing connection or a telephone. Many representatives have also asked about arranging school food. I repeat the same message that I have repeated in this Chamber on several occasions, i.e. municipalities have the opportunity, the right to organise school meals also for pupils in remote education, but the municipalities themselves decide how they want to organise this school meal. I do not think it makes sense for us to go to state level to determine whether it is a picnic bag or another way, but I do trust that the decision-makers themselves will be able to take care of it. Finally, Mr President, there is also concern about the ability of teachers. As I said, the teachers have done an extremely great job in ensuring that the teaching continues now. In practice, they recreated their own job description in just one day, managed to move on to new teaching methods, and I hope, at least myself, that now that this situation may be slightly normalized, there will be a routine for this remote education too, so it would be a little visible that the workload and workload of the teachers would not be as great as it was in the early stages of the transition to this new system and new teaching arrangements.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u17	Mr President! The availability of labour was raised here, especially in agriculture, where seasonal work has depended very strongly on migrant workers from outside Finland. This is evident in agriculture, of course, but we also have other critical areas in which the skills curves are behind us, so we also have to solve these issues. We have set up a separate task force here, which, together with the Border Guard and various parties, is going through this whole. The solution to this question of seasonal agricultural workers is now being sought, among other things, by the fact that those migrant workers who have already come here and who are working here — tomorrow a government proposal on it — should be able to move flexibly to another employer and, therefore, the same person could work in different jobs when different jobs are needed in agriculture at different times, and they could then move flexibly to them, then, of course, so that we also have to try to find workers from our own backs in order to ensure that this security of supply is ensured. As a student of two summers picking strawberries, I know that it is good work but also hard work, but it might be all right to raise the national idea that we can also do different jobs in different places in the summer and also make sure that our food service works.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u18	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to mention something that I raised here in the Chamber a few weeks ago. Critical opinions and disagreement are part of a debate and developmental democracy. Even exceptions must not stifle the need for debate. We already have examples from the world of disinformation by certain major powers, which can cost lives in the midst of the corona crisis. The better we can do things in this room and in public, remembering our manners, raise up and discuss, the better we protect Finns from false information. This is a good time to thank the ministers present for their good attitude towards today's debate. The reason why I wanted to raise this issue is that we in the assembly support the government's efforts to alleviate the corona crisis, but we also dare to highlight the ways in which the situation could be improved in the event of an even greater government crisis. So don't be afraid. We're here to help. I support the Government's regulation on the continuation of the powers conferred by the articles of the Emergency Act in question, but at the same time I strongly call for a stronger debate on the exit strategy. By this I mean the moment when we can gradually see that we have overcome the corona virus and that everyday life should start again. This phase of change will not be easy, and it can be a surprising long time to begin. When you look a little further than your own nose, you can notice the things that will make it difficult for you to get back to your everyday life. In this difficult situation, we need to understand how many teachers are really hard and young people are facing a whole new kind of study. I'm a representative. Essayah agrees that it would only be reasonable and reasonable to cancel the school run and give teachers support and peace to act in these challenging situations without any additional need for change. This has also been invoked by the whole field of education. I would also like to highlight one of our most important threats to the future, namely the immobility of people, especially children and young people. Our society will not bear the ever - increasing costs of immobility. Already sports clubs are in complete trouble, and when they return to normal conditions, they do not have reliable and competent staff to provide sports hobbies for children and young people. I hope that the government will take immediate action in the acute distress of the clubs, especially now that distance learning continues. We need to understand how much it affects children’s and young people’s habits and habits when exercise moments with friends and the moments of exercise brought about by recess have disappeared from the students. The responsibility for moving is too often still on the shoulders of a child or young person. Although we sometimes disagree in this Chamber, I know that each of us wants a better Finland for our children. I therefore wish all of us strength and wisdom in our common path. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u19	Mr President! We are living in a time of double crisis: we are experiencing a health crisis, we are experiencing an economic crisis. Within a limited period of time, I will focus on this health crisis, which is the result of this economic crisis, but in fact I am equally concerned about both. In the final assessment, we will perhaps see the effects of the economic crisis as even more devastating than this health crisis. Instead of sharing my concerns here, I want to encourage and encourage the government. I would like to raise four points in this comprehensive package: The first, of course, is the one that is now on the table, namely the extension of these provisions of the Emergency Act and certain implementing provisions in this regard. That is absolutely right and necessary, as we all know. The second point is that today the government announced excellent policies. They were, of course, expected, but I would like to thank you for them, namely additional supplies of protective equipment, more testing and then this issue of authority management, its efficiency, its centralisation. As a personal opinion, I would like to mention the following: I think that the government has been subjected to excessive criticism and barrage at times in matters that could have actually been better managed by good authority management. In my own interpretation, for example, this question about the situation at the airport is such that I read Articles 14 and 15 of the Act on Disease Control. In such a way that the Southern Finland Avi would have had the full authority to order health inspections to be carried out there without any specific decision being taken at government level. At the same time, I would also like to encourage the authorities, both in the medical districts, in the regional government agencies and in municipal social and health care, to take on greater responsibilities within the scope of the major powers conferred on them. The government has its hands full with this constantly updated legislation and regulations, which of course we are dealing with here. Thirdly, this is the question of testing: that has now been very much discussed in public and I will not go through it any further on a principle level. The question is that the more we test, the more we find those who are infected, and if we isolate them effectively, we will then gradually put this infection out. This has been a matter of course for everyone, but we have now had 23,000 tests done, but the number of our health care staff on the municipal side alone is 132,000, and on the private side there is another 20 thousand, telling us that we have not yet been able to test only a certain part of the health care staff, which would not have been right and wise to open doors to a general test, in which every person who wants to rush into the test, because then we would have blocked the testing sites and we would not have been able to get targeted tests in the right and best way. It is quite the right line that they should be doubled, tripled and even quadrupled, but without this tracking and isolation, it is not very useful and important. Here we come to section 87: After all, it was first and urgently adopted then two weeks ago, and today we have its implementing regulation here. This is an article which allows the entire health service system, which is very fragmented in Finland — 20 hospital districts, 150 health centres in less than 300 municipalities, a large private sector, extensive occupational health care — to be taken over by the state on the basis of this Article 87, and from there we will now have the additional resources that we need to ensure that, with the increased testing capacity, we are able to arrange for this traceability. At the cost of one 10-day intensive care period — costing EUR 30000 — we are in practice able to arrange for the testing of 200 people, 300 people, and then find 5 to 10 sources of infection that we can isolate, but this is not possible in a decentralised system without centralised management, and § 87 confers powers and opportunities on this centralised management. But here I am once again asking about the service system. Today I put my own neighbourhood, the Hospital District of Southwest Finland, in charge of this kind of invitation that in an area where there are currently only eight patients in hospital and no deaths yet, the entire health care system should now be centrally managed. Last of the hospitals, to which I was partially slipping: After all, hospitals are three or four weeks behind in this situation. On the 12th of March, we had 225 infected, now 1350 to six times the number. From this we can conclude that now that we have 150 persons in hospitals, 50 of whom are in intensive care, we will have six times as many in three weeks. It is still ahead, and it will probably last a month from that, so of course hospitals will need all the resources, but with every prevention measure that we can get through testing and isolation, we will be able to reduce the burden on hospitals. I thank the government for its decisive action in this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u20	Mr President! The Board of Directors proposes to extend the powers of the Emergency Act. If this follow-up is approved by the Constitutional Committee and, in due course, in this Chamber, the whole Finnish society will virtually be closed until the summer and the schools will hardly be returned to this spring. These are necessary measures to protect life in this situation — obviously this is the case when we are in a situation where the virus has already spread in Finland and especially here in Uusimaa. Here again, I would like to draw attention to the comments made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in connection with the activation of the Mobility Restriction Act. The committee stated: ‘The Constitutional Affairs Committee stresses the importance of the information base as a In view of the fact that regulation represents a very substantial lack of freedom of movement, the need for regulation and the inadequacy of other means available should have been clarified more broadly. “ Like many representatives, I have often spoken here about the need for extensive testing. On the basis of international examples, only aggressive testing can lead to a situation where infections can be traced and isolation measures can be targeted at individuals instead of masses. This will also enable the economy and mobility to be liberalised in due course. With extensive restrictions on fundamental rights at hand, which is a more pro-right interest rate strategy: the fact that the fundamental rights of all, including those who are healthy and those who have already suffered the disease, are being limited quite indiscriminately, or the fact that the fundamental rights of those who are only affected and exposed are being restricted in a targeted manner? I would choose the latter strategy. This epidemic may only end with two results. According to experts, the epidemic can either be suppressed by strict and as targeted measures as possible, or it can be allowed to spread widely to the population in such a way that, in due course, an adequate level of immunity against the virus will develop. The government has told us that it is controlling the spread of the virus. The R0 figure describing the transmission rate has been consciously kept above the number one, i.e. allowing the virus to spread to the population, that is what this means. Well, Imperial College published new estimates yesterday that would make the disease strain in European countries considerably lower than previously thought. Even in Spain and Italy on the brink of disaster, these estimates suggest that the epidemic would be at an early stage. The estimates of Imperial College suggest that this policy of controlling the epidemic means that these restrictive measures must be extended for a long time — probably for a long time, if not for our economy. The examples in the world have led to an increasing number of countries deciding to move from this policy of containment to an epidemic and virus control policy, to a total fight against it. A strategy based on aggressive testing and individual quarantine has resulted in the spread of the epidemic in South Korea, for example, and this corona policy has been described as a tracking, testing, management policy. The focus here is on a massive testing and monitoring programme. After all, in South Korea, the infected and exposed are also being traced by technology, and then powerful quarantine measures are being imposed. Well, in the Nordic countries, Iceland and Norway have now chosen an aggressive testing line. In Iceland, efforts are being made to test the entire population. The perception of the spread of the disease has grown. Last week, Norway changed its strategy and plans to suppress the disease. Norway will also test asymptomatic. About 90,000 have been tested on just over five million Norwegians so far. Finland has tested over 20,000 people. The government has finally announced a significant increase in testing capacity, and I would like to thank you for this, that is the right line. However, the challenge presented by THL is how to fully control the testing, treatment and tracing chains. The European Office for Disease Control (ECDC) has already published 2.3. a paper dealing with tracing resources. The guidance has clearly been that local, regional and national steering groups should be set up immediately in each European country for the coordination of tracing work. That is what has been instructed a month ago. Well, despite this, there was speculation by the leading authorities in yesterday's A-studio debate that there was not enough resources for tracing work, and yesterday's views show that these resources are obviously scarce. I would now like to ask the Minister in charge: have these guidelines from the ECDC and, in fact, from the WHO in Finland been carefully read? I hope that: Finland would now be the international model student and follow these recommendations from senior actors. I also ask: will the government or the government have discussed the possibility of Finland moving from controlling the virus to suppressing the virus by means of a tracking, testing and treating policy? This repressive policy, as demonstrated by Mr Lindén's speech, is essentially linked to strict individual quarantine, and in Finland the Act on communicable diseases already allows for very strong individual and, in fact, if necessary larger groups. My question is: why should these powers of normal conditions not now be fully exercised when Finland is living under exceptional circumstances? For my part, too, I would like to thank the government for its understanding of the concerns expressed in this House today, and I believe that the debate has been good-spirited in this regard. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u21	Mr President! The limitation measures for teaching will now continue until 13 May. In the school world, the distance learning period will certainly have an impact on the level of competence of pupils and possible school drop-outs. Basic education has much more than educational objectives, one of the biggest and most important is social interaction skills. A teacher or another professional at school as a safe adult is more expensive than gold for children who are not home in a safe haven. Clearly, then, when normal everyday life returns to the school world, we need plenty of resources for those schoolchildren who need this additional support. Schools should also be able to find families who need support. We cannot outsource responsibility for food, mental problems or the need for further education for these young students. In this situation, of course, people’s health takes precedence over everything else, but it is also important to try to look to the future and learn from this extraordinary situation in view of the continuation. Distance learning and its development is a good example of this. Minister Andersson has just left, but perhaps I would have liked to inform him of the figures of early childhood education in a municipality on day care: last Friday 220, now Monday 288 and yesterday Tuesday 345. [Department :Oh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u22	Mr President! The interest-rate crisis and the introduction of the Emergency Act have taught us a great deal about our weaknesses in particular. The rigidity of our systems, the bureaucracy and our legislation themselves have created enormous challenges, and we must also admit that we have not been fully prepared for this particular situation. It is to be hoped that these perceived problems will not be forgotten after the crisis. In my view, the government must step aside from the situation without helping the outdated government programme and create a new programme which is aimed solely at coping with the post-crisis period. We need to reform legislation and systems so that they can actively and rapidly combat similar crises. In the midst of the crisis, the most important thing that should guide politics even in normal situations: the well-being and livelihood of Finns. If someone has not yet noticed, let us say that in this situation there is little help from other countries, and nothing else matters except that we ourselves safeguard the well-being of Finns now and after the crisis. The same idea should also be used to re-establish the government programme. Mr President! We must continue to have powers with regard to the paragraphs opened in the Emergency Act, because the situation is certainly not over. However, I see a risk with regard to actions that are mere recommendations: in some municipalities, for example, the number of children in day-care centres and schools is rising every day. At the same time, I am concerned about the fact that some children and young people are literally at home school — not at a distance, as should be the case. This is one of our clearest weaknesses. We did not have a ready-made palette for remote education, nor did we have equipment or extensive Internet connections. I hope that the lack of Internet connections and the lack of bandwidth will finally awaken those Members of Parliament who imagine that the situation will improve on a market-based basis by telecommunications operators. After the crisis, this too needs to be addressed and measures taken to combat similar situations by means of telecommunications connections and by using technological know-how and to develop genuinely digitalization. Without comprehensive connections, digitalisation will not take place in any area.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u23	Mr President! It has probably already been clear to us all that exceptional circumstances will continue and the duration of the preparedness law will be extended. Many parents who run remote schools at home are already prepared for this. As many people have already said, the vast majority of citizens have followed the guidelines very well and scrupulously, for which they are very much grateful. One of our tasks here, along with many others, is to create hope for everyone that we will get through this together — thanks also to the government for maintaining this message. The creation of hope cannot be overemphasized. It is good to recognize that the endurance of many tournaments, however, is already under test. Attention must therefore be paid in particular to those groups that are particularly hard to deal with. The public debate on exceptional circumstances continues to be exhausted by those groups of people who, in principle, are already in a fragile position and who will suffer the most from both the epidemic itself and the measures to limit it. Restrictive measures have a harsh impact on the lives of both homeless and dependent on income support, for example, Kela's announcement this week that it will close all the offices in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. According to the latest information, Kela has still not been able to get new instructions in the doors of Kela's offices, and even if it seems strange to us now, there are a lot of people who do not have Internet, who do not have telephones and who are entirely dependent on this face-to-face service. There is a risk that these people will now, in practice, be left to their own devices and that their fundamental rights may be violated. I know that Mr Pekonen has addressed this issue, but I hope that this monitoring will now continue and indeed ensure that these people who depend on income support actually receive this information on time and that their situation will not be put in a more harsh position. We already know that the big problem in Finland, or indeed the human rights problem, is, in principle, that many people are not applying for the social security that belongs to them, and if we make it more difficult for them to receive support now under these exceptional circumstances, it will leave a long trail. Mr President! Representatives Antikainen and Mäkisalo-Ropponen have already mentioned the situation regarding the status of children and child protection. There are many children who are currently practically imprisoned in their own home, and it is often the case that extreme loyalty to their own parents also leads to children not voluntarily seeking help. It is wonderful that we have proposed a telephone to help — it is indeed necessary at national level, even though there are already some of them — but there is also the idea that the child himself should pick up the phone and call and ask for help. We now need to develop systems in the municipalities so that we can better reach those children and young people who are currently in a very poor situation in their own home, and this will certainly require the development of new tools. Detective Child Services needs to be developed. In fact, I thought that perhaps the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Education and Culture could also step up cooperation here — we know that this is already being done in committee, but it is becoming even more evident that this is something that can be tackled. It is true that the children who are there at the distance are not necessarily reached at all through Wilma, and here Wilma is also being used in very different ways: there are schools, areas where in practice teaching is almost normal, and then there are schools where only tasks can be obtained and there may not be any contact with the child. Mr President! While it is clear that the epidemic situation is still in place and perhaps is becoming increasingly escalating, it is necessary to re-evaluate the validity, necessity, proportionality, punctuality and precision of the conditions for each regulation. Finally, Mr President: It has been suggested here at the beginning of this debate that, in this situation, the government programme should be scrapped, and the extension of compulsory education and the abandonment of this project were mentioned separately. I think it is perhaps a little strange and partly unethical now to take advantage of this interest rate situation to oppose projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u27	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u28	Mr President! Like Mr Honkasalo, I am concerned about people living in the midst of this crisis, and especially about those who face challenges at home, perhaps domestic violence, children under conditions that are not good enough, people who suffer from income problems, as well as the many entrepreneurs who are in a very difficult position in the midst of this situation. I have heard about this situation with regard to Kela last week and with Mr Pekonen on this issue, and the government has not explicitly taken the line that the agencies should be closed down, precisely because, even in the midst of this crisis, it is precisely people's livelihood that must be guaranteed, for example. Of course, Kela operates under the supervision of Parliament, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health gives guidance and Minister Pekonen will explain this in more detail, but it is absolutely essential that people's livelihood can be ensured in this situation. We also know that not everyone has access to digital tools, and it is therefore also important from the point of view of equality that offices are open. But I am very concerned about people in the midst of this crisis. This affects each of us in his or her own way and also causes distress, sorrow, fear and a wide range of experiences that we must be able to respond to, and that is where the municipalities play an important role. We can't do everything in the government. We will not be able to cope with the government alone in the face of this situation, but we will of course need the help of Finnish people so that these restrictive measures and guidelines are followed, but we also need local government and municipalities to be good partners so that this crisis and all its phenomena can be resolved as far as possible so that this society is as little harm as possible with the crisis. There has been active contact with the municipalities, and I know that the Minister of Local Government is actively engaged in this debate, and I can also say to the municipalities that the government will ensure that the costs incurred by municipalities for the immediate consequences of this crisis are also compensated and covered. So we do not leave the municipalities alone here, but we definitely need the support and help of the municipalities to resolve these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u29	Mr President! Of course, decision-making must always start from the facts, and the fact is that, due to slow and inadequate response and poor preparation, Finland has fallen into a situation in which we are in an exceptional state due to the corona crisis. The second fact is that it is not justified at the moment to put an end to the state of emergency, but must be continued. This is due to the fact that we cannot yet be sure of the impact of these measures that we have launched in the past, because the infections are reflected in a delay of several weeks and it is not yet known how the number of infections has developed as a result of these measures that have already been taken. The government also seems to have a somewhat lost strategy for what is actually being pursued by these measures, i.e. to stop the epidemic or to contain it. They're two completely different things. The THL believes that the epidemic cannot be stopped, but that it can be curbed. What's the government's policy? What can be done, what is the aim of these measures? Is testing to properly isolate these transmission chains, as has been done in many other countries? Will there be enough breathing protection in the country to allow citizens to use it? Do we have enough ventilator capacity if, however, this epidemic breaks out of hand? As a second question: What are we going to do about Sweden? Sweden has chosen a different line in the fight against this disease, i.e. they do not in practice reject it. There are already alarming figures in Sweden as regards infections and also deaths, and we still have an open border with Sweden, so that the Finnish citizens can always come back from there. What will be done if there is a serious crisis in Sweden and Finnish citizens or even non-Finnish citizens try to come back from Sweden? The fact that we have to prioritise things during the crisis should be remembered by the government. I wondered when the government was going to recognise the fact that now these climate objectives, which have been set, will no longer be achieved. They're no longer possible. When does the government intend to recognise the fact that this crisis has led to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u32	Mr President! Now we are discussing part of the extension of the powers of the Emergency Act, and I think we will have to continue to do so after that. Even during this exceptional period, restrictions must not be taken out too early so that people do not feel satisfied that this is going to pass, and then the second wave of coronavirus hits much worse. People need to understand that this is going to take a long time, even if the infections start counting. The flexibility of health care staff in overtime and rest periods and the transfer of holidays can have a great deal to do with the health care staff. As far as the obligation to work is concerned, we are now trying to deal with this by means of inter-service transfers. Then, when people are asked back to work when they have been away for a long time, or moved between units, that often causes them to be trained in the new units, and this can become a bit of a snag for those old people, and the attitude may be negative. There has already been a message that when people are transferred between units, these new people are going to get a little out of hand so that they are not even greeted. It is now important for the superiors to pay attention to this, not to the fact that they are not able to stand up, but to the fact that, in times of crisis, everything is well received when there are additional hands. Then it is a good thing that this period of notice is extended. We have already heard that: Is it the bee that attracts doctors and nurses to Spain? I'm sure a lot of people will go there when they're offered enough pay, but then it can become quarantine and stuff, and then they'll be out of their job when they get back here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u35	Mr President! Dear Minister and fellow Members of Parliament! The full support for the continuation of the measures of the Act of Preparedness — the invisible threat of COVID-19, the corona virus, has in many ways changed our society in just a few weeks. The message of the Assembly has been the same from the outset: do more, and in time rather than too little and too late. We have also given our support to quite drastic measures. Let me raise a few points. I'll start with the schools. A large proportion of local education institutions have moved to remote education, but these smallest pupils, the first-third, are still largely exposed to these groups and contacts. I would have liked the government to have looked for a solution that would prevent any child from going into these contact teaching situations because of the family’s financial situation or because neither parent has the opportunity to work at a distance. For example, a system of daily allowances should have been introduced to ensure the care of the children of these families. By the way, special education, support education and student care will also require additional resources very quickly. We will certainly see those situations as this period of distance education lengthens, that we will have to move certain students back even to local education because it simply does not succeed. Attention should also be paid to teachers. Many of them are currently exposed due to very large contact numbers, and otherwise the municipalities do not follow that group of ten children throughout Finland. And I hope that we stop talking about bringing forward the autumn school year. Teachers, these school professionals, are doing even double work at the moment,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u38	Mr President! Over the past few weeks, we have seen what Finnish society can do even in the face of a severe crisis when we go together to protect the right to life. Of course, there are always things that can be done better, and there is always lessons to be learned, but I think that the credit to society as a whole is that every time these problems have been identified they have been dealt with quite quickly. This situation requires broad cooperation and flexibility, both at the grassroots level and here in the state administration. It has therefore been important to maintain the rule of law in the event of a crisis, that Parliament, the Government and committees jointly pilot Finland through this difficult situation. Municipalities, ely centres, other key authorities will also be involved at all times in order to ensure that this is done together and that the fundamental rights of everyone are safeguarded as closely as possible. Now that the emergency conditions have to continue, the importance of this cooperation is emphasised and how important it is to ensure that everyone in Finland goes to the support and help they need. Social security is, of course, crucial in this situation when thousands of Finns lose their jobs when companies have to stop operating. Now we are looking for the best, most effective support models that really make money for people to help in everyday life. In this respect, the municipalities and Ely Centres have already cooperated very closely, particularly in relation to companies. At least from Tampere I have heard some promising news about how to actually sit at the same table, consider local needs, involve local business associations and then start developing operating models. It's not about the money anymore, is it? The billion-dollar support package has already gone to companies, and I am sure there is still a willingness to increase the amount if necessary. It is precisely in the operating models, in the most flexible ways of getting that money through, that bottleneck is now, and it has really been taken up. Every time a new problem comes up, it has really been tackled and we can be confident that not one problem will be underestimated, not one problem will be weighed down with wool, but that this cooperation will really work in the best possible way. In the field of education, education and social and health care, the key issue now begins to be what parts of other normal services can be secured, how to take care of everyone in the middle of the crisis. This has already been taken into account by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as soon as the exceptional circumstances have entered into force. It is absolutely essential that, as far as anything is possible, social services, normal health services, tutoring, special education, all this is going on, so of course we must act. In other words, exceptional circumstances do not in themselves justify, for example, total abolition of support for pupils or mental health services or other essential services, which are essential in the midst of the crisis. The crisis is therefore not a reason to drive anything down, but rather a reason to further strengthen services, develop new models, develop remote solutions, because this crisis is really affecting both employees and other Finns. That is why it is not the time to cut, but now is the time to see how we can get even better services for everyone under these exceptional circumstances. This, of course, requires money, and this is what the government is taking up in the spending limits debate. Identify the needs of municipalities, identify the needs of schools, social welfare facilities, health care facilities and respond as well as possible to the screaming shortage of new operating models that we are currently experiencing in the midst of the crisis. At the same time, there is a need to offer understanding and mercy to the fact that there too, under exceptional circumstances, work is being done under exceptional pressure. There is a need to offer thanks to those professionals who work for it, and at the same time ensure that the resource side works. That's our responsibility in the end. We cannot go and decide which is the best way to provide that remote service to a person, but we can ensure that the money is sufficient for the quality of the work done by professionals. This has recently become central to, for example, mental health services and helplines, where a sharp increase in the needs of Finns has been identified. It is therefore important to address these issues now that no one is really left alone in the midst of this crisis. As far as I can see, the last few weeks, although the challenges have been identified, have been more of a credit to us as a society than a disgrace. Once the problems have been identified, efforts have been made to tackle them with full force and effectiveness, regardless of party boundaries. The Constitutional Committee has acted as quickly and flexibly as it can, while at the same time seeking to safeguard the fundamental rights of Finns, Parliament has also met on Saturdays if necessary. If this attitude is continued, I believe that we will be an internationally commendable example of how the welfare state can best cope with the corona. Finally, a brief comment. As far as testing is concerned, there is often the impression that South Korea, for example, is lagging behind in Finland. That is not the case, but we are already in those South Korean figures and testing is being increased, because it has really been recognised that it is an integral part of this equation. It is with the spirit of cooperation, solidarity, that we can overcome this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, the two hours allocated for this debate have already been exceeded, but let us take Mr Pekonen for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u40	Mr President! I shall begin to answer this question raised by Mr Heinonen on the adequacy of protective equipment. I said that large quantities of different protective equipment have already been distributed from the warehouses of the Emergency Supply Agency, and I still think that we, Finland, have had good material preparation. It is based on planning and forecasting, which is precisely what these exceptional reserves of security of supply, which other countries do not have at international level, are telling us, and that is why we have already had a great deal of time to acquire these protective equipment. In many other countries, the situation has been quite different when there has been no stock and the market has been closed. We have known for a long time that even now the international market for protective equipment has been closed, nothing has been bought there, but now the market is open, and we have made orders for protective equipment for the world. But I would still like to say that our security reserves at the Security of Supply Centre are by no means empty, and it is not, of course, appropriate for us to empty them completely before we start purchasing new protective equipment, as it were, so we are getting more and more. As far as that home care is concerned, which was also raised by representative Heinonen, I said earlier in this Chamber that the municipalities can also acquire these protective equipment themselves. As far as home care is concerned, this preparation and storage of protective equipment is the responsibility of the municipalities, but it is quite understandable that the municipalities do not have these protective equipment, because these mouth protectors and other equipment are not part of the normal municipal home care practice, so we also want to help the municipalities and also offer them the opportunity to ask us for help in purchasing these protective equipment. Mr Honkasalo raised the issue of this Kela situation here, and I would like to say that Kela's offices cannot be closed. I have heard that there have been corona-positive situations in some of the offices, which have led to a legitimate and completely understandable closure of the offices, but otherwise Kela's offices cannot be closed. These are indeed fundamental human rights. People need to be able to do business. We all know that Kela's benefit handlers are under a very large workload and that is why we have had to make arrangements at Kela's offices where people have been transferred from customer service to the benefit treatment, which is why some Kela's offices operate with such limited resources that the doors of the offices must be kept locked, but the door must have instructions on how to: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u41	From 3 to 6 June the joint debate on the matter and the third case shall be suspended. From 3 to 6 June proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after the other items of the order of business have been examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u42	Then let's get back to item three. We shall now proceed to the third part-session, which was suspended earlier. consideration of the point of view. In this context, discussion will also be allowed on the 4th and 6th issues of the agenda. on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u43	Mr President! I have made my point here, which is shared by quite a few people, including Mr Ojala-Niemelä, the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that once this pandemic is over, we need to look at this state of affairs of the emergency law and the fact that it is more agile and clear. I hope it will be done in parliamentary preparation. But the time is when this pandemic is under control. I would like to remind you of what I mentioned earlier — then Minister Henriksson was not present. When I am chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I would like to say that if I ever bring different views or comments, it is not a bad brawl of any kind. You have never said that, Minister, but there are times when government lines come up with such comments. I have replied in this way that good leaders do not want just men and women around because if everyone just bows down, they can never get good advice about their actions and then they stumble. So I hope that the government and ministers will take our views as guidance and blackmail and improvement. As far as these performances that we missed during the day are concerned, that representative Essayah spoke about persons living in nursing homes, of whom I think Lulu Ranne, the representative of the Finns, spoke on Monday, or was it last week, and then there was a noise in the hall. The representative, Mrs Ranne, spoke about the possible existence of this type of advice in nursing homes that people should not be sent to treatment. There was no answer, perhaps an increase in eyebrows, but today Mrs Essayah expressed this same concern that this is the case. We will then come closer to the situation in Sweden, where, apparently, quite clearly and fairly openly, care for people will be prioritised, because there will be an end to intensive care. Then, of course, I would have liked to ask, when there were still ministers here, but unfortunately the sitting was interrupted, that when there is this obligation to work for the medical staff, how do you view the fact that, as far as I know, a bee is currently recruiting — or have it interrupted — doctors in Spain. I hope that under these circumstances no one would go anywhere else in the world to treat patients. We have a very serious situation here. I would have liked to have heard whether it could even be dealt with legally — I do not know — and prevent people from going to work in another country. Maybe he could, I don't know. But now there is no minister to answer. Moreover, I myself am very concerned about the ability of the staff, and that is why it is so regrettable that, for example, the economic situation in municipalities is challenging, as is the case with us in Hyvinkää. I very much hope that the government will quickly become a fair package for the municipalities on what money is actually being made available, and, above all, an answer to the fact that many municipalities are already experiencing a rather poor economic balance and many municipalities are grappling with it, such as Hyvinkää, for example. We should save millions of dollars, and at the same time this corona crisis came. We do not know how the government will react and whether there will be any guidance as to whether everything will be in place: deficit, crisis municipalities, all the others. I understand that the EU is also being flexible about this Stability Pact. Is the government flexible towards the municipalities? It is actually quite an impossible situation to balance the old economy and then deal with this corona crisis, which requires more investment. For this reason, municipalities should be given funds to take care of staff, home care and many others, education, in accordance with their statutory obligations. Still from this school, or actually from not going to school. Representative Antikainen of the True Finns spoke of family tension and may have an increased problem with alcohol. I myself am very concerned about the situation of children, and I would have liked to have heard about how the government is prepared to deal with the situation of children. There was talk of these helpful phones, but very small children can’t even use the phone so that it doesn’t answer it. Indeed, I am very concerned about these people, as are the elderly. They are many lonely and many unrememberable, and this is also very challenging. And when you think of these housekeepers who go home there, there must be a tremendous amount of pressure and grief and such a situation when you feel inadequate and want to do more than you can do. I thank all Finnish families, people in all situations, that you have been able and have been there to support us and have sent us a lot of messages and questions. I would also like to thank the government for having acted quickly on certain issues — perhaps in some cases I would have acted more quickly personally. Finally, I would like to remind you that it must be possible to disagree in this Chamber without every time it is said that it is almost political, because we are politicians.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u44	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking the government for its determination to limit and tackle the corona epidemic and also for actively communicating the actions and measures taken. It is a relief to hear today that the restrictive measures seem to bite. However, it is not yet possible to dismantle them, and that is why the government is now proposing to extend them until 13 May. I would also like to wish the people the strength of the corona ark. Teachers, students, and families have stretched to incredible accomplishments. In social media, we can all follow and share everyday experiences, support each other. There has been much talk of family survival, but I would also like to wish strength to people of different ages living alone. Life alone within four walls is hard, and it is important to remember all groups of people in different life situations and to offer support to all who need it. It is also important to remind ourselves that we can be merciful to ourselves as well as to each other. Perfection does not need to be pursued in this situation. All you have to do is do your best. I share many other concerns about children and young people who do not receive the support they need at home. There has been much talk in this Chamber of an increased threat of domestic violence and substance abuse problems. Further support must be given to municipalities to provide services that do not allow any child or young person to fall off the sled or miss help when they need it. The resources and opportunities for child welfare and family work, especially preventive work, must be secured in these challenging circumstances. Mr President! Social and health care workers are now very hard on their feet, and exceptional conditions in their working conditions and working conditions will continue for a long time. It is important that we take care of their health, endurance and safety at work. The same applies, of course, to police and rescue personnel. Thank you and strength for the important work on the front line. Much has been said today about the adequacy of protective equipment. It is very important that this issue is being raised and that it is also being communicated openly and actively so that everyone has an up-to-date knowledge of what is going on. I would also like to emphasise everyone's own responsibility and importance in the fact that we are now able to combat the corona epidemic and save lives. It now calls for our tenacity in staying at home and washing hands. Mr President! In addition to managing the acute crisis, we need to be prepared for how to get rid of these restrictive measures, and this is what the government has done. The government has today announced a significant increase in sampling and testing. This is necessary in order to catch up and trace the supply chains and put an end to the epidemic. Yesterday, at Studio A, we discussed more testing and where the bottlenecks are with regard to testing. The most important thing now is to make the whole chain work, including with regard to the tracing of the exposed. The problems that are now being considered in Finland with regard to increased testing, such as the lack of labour, can be solved by means of technology. It makes no sense that tracking the transmission chains is the responsibility of our infectious doctors. In Germany, medical students have been used to do this work, and mobile applications can also help automate contact tracking. I hope that Finland, too, will now be taking a determined step forward, under the leadership of the government, with regard to the testing package, including the departure of those who have achieved immunity to test and release them to work again. It has now been decided to continue the restrictive measures on 13 May. up until the end Let us each make sure that we continue to apply these restrictive measures conscientiously. It is also important that the progress of the epidemic is closely monitored and, if the conditions for restrictions are not met, they can be dismantled before the deadline.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u45	Mr President! Thank you to the government for the responsible and, as the case may be, the restrictive measures taken. The middle statue of Wäinö Aaltonen before us is called The Future. The statue’s child signals us a hand to remind us that in decisions we take children into account when solving the acute corona crisis and also when we solve the longer-term consequences of this crisis. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is also in force under exceptional circumstances. As these conditions continue, children’s conditions and family problems get worse. In today's debate, Prime Minister Marin rightly said that alcohol consumption is also a major problem in Finland under normal conditions and this issue should be taken seriously. Now, under exceptional circumstances, the mild phenomena of alcohol consumption are getting worse. Not all children are safe at home. We must wake up to the responsible solution to the alcohol problem. It has been a subject that has been sometimes underestimated and partly avoided in the social debate. I hope that there will be a heated debate on the subject on the basis of the facts. Let us set a good example for ourselves. I would like to thank Mr Andersson for his clear communication with the schools. School terrain is different. Support for learning must also be made to work in distance education, for example, as a collaboration between school counselors and student care. These professionals should not be hastily laid off, but should be trained for new steering tasks. Mr Kausto raised concerns about the immobility of children and young people today. It is also advisable to carry out operational tasks in remote schools. Today, when we sent a live broadcast from this Parliament to support schools with Mr Kivisaari and Mr Ovaska, we also made the teachers available for physical activities. For example, we asked: How many pillars are there in front of the Parliament House? Do the same amount of squats. How many steps are there in front of the Parliament House? Do the same amount of toes. And so on. Such diverse schooling is also needed in remote education. Let's keep the school kids moving as far as we can. Minister Andersson said today that the municipalities have the opportunity and the right to organise school meals. The government wants to trust the municipal decision-makers that they can arrange it. However, this has not worked everywhere. 27.3. 56% of municipalities organise meals only for those in close-up education, as the case may be. 44 per cent of municipalities carry out school meals in one way or another. So the situation varies. Children are not on an equal footing. I therefore hope that further consideration could be given to clarifying common guidelines and communicating with the municipalities. Minister Pekonen also spoke today in favour of supporting families. There are also challenges and pressures in families where there have been no major problems before the crisis. The economy of large families is tough when children do not receive school food. The food bill rises and grows high. There may be small children at home, schoolchildren of different ages, and at least one parent should have time to do his/her own remote work. In some municipalities, family work and home help have been reduced to the minimum. Some families are already very tired. Many kinds of support are needed. It is great that, for example, Help Lasta’s Child-rich activities organise volunteers to help families with caution. Indeed, many organizations are doing wonderful work under these exceptional circumstances. Thank all the volunteers for that. I therefore raise the question of what else we can do to support families when we build a child-friendly Finland, which we talked about so much about in the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u46	Mr President! This government's proposal to extend the mandate until mid-May had been expected. The Finns were able to wait for this proposal and it is justified. As we continue with this regulation, the Emergency Act, we must also ensure that the overall management of this Emergency Act continues to function, and it is extremely important that news has been received today that the Prime Minister's Office will be invested through the Operations Centre, that the Corona Group will receive a supplement and, in every way, that cooperation between the authorities will remain within time and can then anticipate future, perhaps even special, events. Whether these proposals are originally from the President's Idea Bank or from the Government's Idea Bank, it really does not matter to me in this situation. The main thing, however, is that coordination works. But if you think about the use of this emergency law now a month forward, then my opinion is that — if you can say so in such a serious matter — two weeks have gone a bit like the novelty of the new thing and people have experienced that this is such a special situation that will soon be over. Well, now that we go a month forward, more mild phenomena are beginning to emerge in the battle’s throng, and there are many ways to prepare the government for the possibility of various disturbances. One place where these disturbances come, as it were, on the other side of the screen, is now related to distance education and related questions, because this continuing distance education until the middle of May is not quite straightforward from the point of view of schools. Teachers' resources are currently under real strain. The provision of distance education is more demanding than local education: it employs 24 hours a day, and teachers are currently under intense pressure. Mr Kinnunen spoke in his speech about school assistants and the important tasks that school assistants do. Unfortunately, the number of school assistants has now been laid off, which means that teachers will then be even more on their own. But in any case, when you look at it halfway through May, from the point of view of schools, you also need to assess the way you complete the semester, which is the right model: is distance education the role of going there in May to June, or will it make some other decisions well before mid-May? Mr President! And finally, I'd like to say... This Emergency Act is closely linked to this closure of Uusimaa and related issues. Today, when I first tested — from that Ostrobothnian country when I took the train — how this lock works, the two proper policemen from Riihimäki got on the train and then assessed the potential of the signatory and representative Risiko to come here to take care of the country's activities, and we did get here. But in that debate it became clear that now that the Defence Forces are providing official assistance, including conscripts, these policemen were of the opinion that there is a rather peculiar situation here, that they are working hours of between 17 and 18 hours and that the military have been instructed to keep the logman's accounts in these brackets. So, in some way, with the peasants thinking about this official aid. Defence forces have been given, garrisons with special-educated military officers, for example. The Defence Forces will be able to assess the types of garrison they put on the locks — and in this context I would like to send my greetings to them to think that it would be necessary, however, to make maximum use of the military's share now, because the police's working days seem to be quite long now. Of course, everyone here is working long hours, but we could find solutions to this by using the garrison.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u47	Mr President! First of all, we should thank the Prime Minister and the entire government for their consistent and responsible action and decision-making in this very difficult and exceptional situation. In the last few days, I have received a lot of citizens' feedback telling me that the work that has been done is being satisfied and that at the moment people feel secure in their confidence that the country's leadership knows what they are doing. Of course, it is easy for me to agree with these words. Over the past few days and weeks, we have tried to push the crisis resistance of Finnish legislation against the Emergency Act and its implementation. Of course, there has been some hard work, but I am very pleased that all the necessary decisions have progressed and progressed rapidly. Even today, we have already dealt with a number of issues relating to the management and management of the corona. We are now discussing the extension of the powers laid down in the Emergency Act, as proposed by the Government. As the Prime Minister said earlier today, restrictive measures were already in place in good time. In the light of the information currently available, it appears that they have been timely and justified and also have an impact on the speed and extent of the development of the corona virus. It has been argued several times in this Chamber today that the government would have chosen a line in which the virus would be allowed to spread through the population uncontrollably. The government has repeatedly and clearly stated that its strategy is precisely to curb the spread of the epidemic. In practice, this means that while the duration of the epidemic is prolonged as a result of the restrictive measures, it safeguards not only the right of risk groups but also the right of each of us in Finland to health and life. Compared to our neighbouring country, Sweden, for example, we have therefore chosen a completely different line. Our particular challenge is already, but also in the future, to ensure the sustainability of the national economy. It is clear that the economic impact of the epidemic is very deep, and the further the epidemic lasts, the more serious these effects become. In this context, we should continue to thank the government for the strength with which it has responded immediately to both the concerns of the business community and the concerns of entrepreneurs. We do not need to make a choice as to whether we safeguard people’s lives or the economy of our country. With heavy but necessary decisions, we strive to do our best to secure both. It is clear that the government is doing everything in its power by means of massive financial support packages to avoid another disaster such as the recession of the 1990s. Now, however, we must concentrate on dealing with the immediate crisis in every way possible, so that we can also take the necessary steps and decisions to re-emerge the economy. Mr President! I am very pleased that the government has announced and confirmed that testing will continue to be significantly increased and that the adequacy of care supplies will also be maintained. There is also a justification for clarifying the coordination of crisis response. These are critical questions to be answered, just as the government has now done. However, I would like to share my concerns about those Finns who have already been in a very vulnerable position before the crisis. They are the ones who are currently also in the midst of this chaos most needing help. It should also be noted, as has already been done here, that there are problems now, for example, with families who have not had them in the past. In exceptional circumstances, when the scope of services has to be reduced and resources prioritised, we have a big responsibility to ensure that people who need special support and assistance are not left alone. We now really need a lot of cooperation with the authorities, municipalities and decision-makers. However, I would like to emphasise that the municipalities have a big role to play in this whole exercise, because they are the administrative body that acts mainly as ordinary Finns. The state is committed to providing financial support to municipalities in the midst of this crisis, which is extremely valuable and necessary, but I would also encourage them to play an active role in the way in which new approaches can be introduced in order to respond to people's special needs. For every decision we cannot and should not expect guidance from the government. However, practical solutions will always have to be made there in the middle of everyday life, and we need to be able to come up with them in the municipalities themselves, not only for the state and the authorities to play their part. A few practical examples: In my home town of Jyväskylä, we have looked at the development of the situation on a weekly basis in cooperation with different areas of activity. We have been activated in cooperation with volunteers, for example, in the transportation of food and pharmacy purchases home. Local companies in the region have also been involved. We find out and map out the need for help for over 70-year-olds by calling each and every one of them personally at home. We are about to start providing school meals to families who need it, and when there is a message that, for example, in the case of special young people, there has been a certain kind of symptomism and, for example, in the case of some families with children, a special need for help, we are also going through these situations in cooperation with both volunteers and the city's own actors: what solutions can we then find? All the same, I believe that the municipalities have a lot of resources, but now I would also encourage decision-makers in the municipalities to take up this work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u48	Mr President! A year ago we were already in the final stages of our election campaigns, for the first time in my life. Each of us was able to tell our citizens endlessly our own views on the direction in which Finland needs to be developed and what kind of measures it needs to take. None of us could have imagined the situation we are in now, even after such a short period of time. It simply tells us how surprising life can be and how fragile it will be in the end. Finland is no longer the same country as one year ago. It's not the same country as six months ago, even a month ago. It may be that in many ways Finland will never be the same country that we were in a moment ago and that we are used to. We were already rocking the edge of the recession before the corona, and even then we had a heated debate as to whether the government programme was the right one to meet the challenges that the economic situation requires, or whether it was even one that pushed Finland deeper into recession. Now that conversation has gone on for a while. We must understand that we are facing a huge challenge. The Government Programme aimed and continues to aim, among other things, to reduce inequalities and strengthen the welfare state. This is exactly what we have to look at as we move forward: In what way can we take care of the weaker ones in society? In what way will we provide mental health services to those who need them? Even before the corona, it was this sector that faced significant challenges. An annual cost of EUR 11 billion was spent on mental health problems. Even young people had to wait up to a year for proper treatment. Anyone can predict how we will need mental health services considerably more in the near future. Now that the corona seems to plunge our country into a recession that has been compared to the great recession of the 1990s or even worse, how do we guarantee that we will be able to maintain even the previous level of service, let alone improve it? There's no choice but to rebuild everything. It means a government programme, it means structural changes for the whole Finnish society, it means everything. There's no other choice. If we are not prepared to make significant changes in such a significant change, we will not survive. If we really want to eliminate inequalities, if we want to strengthen the structures of the Finnish welfare state, we need to make major changes and reforms. Mr President! This is the real thing, and we have to take it seriously. After the interest rate, this country must be rebuilt, and it needs everyone's input. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u49	Mr President! Here we are discussing several articles of the Emergency Act and the extension and introduction of powers. A few words: I thought first there was talk of health, then of the economy and then of security. First of all, health: It is clear that a number of drastic measures are needed to protect the risk groups and to safeguard the health of our staff, including social welfare, care and, among other things, safety staff, so that they are sufficient in our health care intensive care facilities. But health is also an important part of testing capacity and protective equipment. For us to be able to safeguard the health of workers on the safety side, for example, proper guidelines, protective equipment and also tests are needed. If we do not get the people who are currently working and suspect an infection or suspect another disease, then we will have a large number of people in quarantine or out of work just because there is a suspicion that they have fallen ill or are getting sick and spreading this infection. That is why the concern that has been all over this Chamber with regard to the adequacy of these protective equipment must be taken seriously. There is scope for action in this area if there are also messages from this decision-makers and from the national level that we now need innovative measures. I will give you an example from Oulu that some colleagues have already heard: A week and a half ago this kind of Screentec company, a pharmaceutical company, changed its production direction on the basis that he received messages from different sources that there is a shortage of protective visors. I received a message today that they have sent 7,000 copies of the protective visor delivery to the world — ‘the world’s’meaning that our country of origin — has allowed this direction of production to change at a rate of 10000 copies a week, and they have stopped the activity they are normally doing and the pharmaceutical technology they are Now about this economy: So we need action on the part of businesses, on the one hand, and on the other hand on the part of small and medium-sized enterprises, on the other hand, but on the other hand on the part of municipalities. With regard to SMEs, there has been one major concern today, namely that both Finnvera and Business Finland operate in such a way that they do not lend to the company if the company's own capital has been lost and therefore the company is interpreted as a so-called company in difficulty. Business Finland and Finnvera said that there will be no guarantees and that the loan will not be granted at the time. These sectors have been in the restaurant, real estate and software sectors, and therefore capital, equity, has temporarily become very low either through investment in product development and more labour in the past year, or through the closure of an office which has previously been unprofitable — the rest of the business is profitable, but that one-stop shop’s unprofitable profitability has eaten up its own capital, and it has therefore been temporarily lost even if the company is in the future, so to speak, creditworthy. That is regrettable, and we in the assembly have demanded that the criteria for granting funding be calculated on a fixed-term basis in terms of loan arrears caused by the interest rate crisis, loss of equity or default, because it is not so easy to define a healthy company. One of us feels healthy even if there are many underlying diseases, and the other does not feel healthy even if there are no diseases. Then, in relation to this economy in particular, measures are needed on that part of the municipality, and it is hoped from the local authority that those benefits would not come through the VOSs, because they would not then be supported, but would come as compensation for tax revenue, or so that special medical care would receive the direct funding because the municipalities would pay for its special medical care. There are many municipal decision-makers in this Chamber, and we know that special care will ultimately be paid for by the municipalities, and if the state could now provide packages for special care per infection rate and population, it would also make the difficult financial situation in the municipalities easier. Mr President! And a few more things about this safety: In this first regulation, which we are dealing with, it is clear from the point of view of education and training that ‘the obligation of training providers to organise teaching and other activities, as well as food, transport and accommodation benefits may be limited by Article109(2) of the Act on Preparedness in the territory of the Kingdom’. Much has been said in this Chamber about the importance of warm food and food, but in terms of safety, I would particularly like to raise this point that municipalities still have a responsibility to ensure that every comprehensive school student in Finland has the opportunity to learn in a safe environment. And this is not a small thing: our primary schools have about 600,000 students, and the municipalities still have a responsibility to ensure that each student learns in a safe environment. Now we are not in a position to guarantee this safety either as municipal decision-makers or here in Parliament, because that learning takes place there in remote education, in families, not in schools, but in four walls. The first contacts from school cranes on extremely difficult security situations have already come two weeks ago, at least to the signatory, and this is something that we need to send out a clear signal in the Chamber that the municipalities will be given sufficient resources for this special support and child protection. In Oulu, for example, there is a notice of this kind, a declaration of care,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u50	Mr President! We are dealing here with the Government regulation on the continuation of the powers of action laid down in the various articles of the Emergency Act, and it is very important that these are extended. So I am very much in favour of them. Of course, it would only be important to know when to get the application settings here. The sooner, the better, because then we could, while we go through them in our special committees, have a little reflection of the situation. According to the information I have received, these regulations will come in next week, and that is what I hope, because I think that they will not be such a great job now that they are going to continue. It would be good for us to have them here and, above all, to get them out there in the field. I will take the sector in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, for example, because we have exactly what has been said here. There will, of course, continue to be action on the school side, and there will be no interruptions in that way, but there will be certain problems which would then be good for us here in Parliament to point out and in our statements, and then the Constitutional Committee will have to look at them. For example, there have been problems with the organisation of student care and school meals, which we raised in our previous opinion, and the Constitutional Committee also drew attention to that school meal. These would be important now. We received a situation picture from an expert at the Ministry of Education and Culture at the meeting yesterday, and it was very important, because on the basis of that, of course, we are going to ask ourselves whether there should be any further support for the schools and the school sector, the educational community. I myself received a call today that took great care of the school meals, for example, in the case that now that students are being offered food at school, which, according to the Constitution, is a fundamental human right, free of charge education, there is a surprising number of children who want to be applied for from that school. Now there's quite a stir, when they're there at the same time, to pick up the food, and they're there in the same room. There is no way to control this except, of course, to give time, but then when those foods get cold again, if there are so many of those times, that you come pick up in half an hour and so on. So this is the kind of little bun there is. Then, of course, there are also these instructions, which of course we are now waiting for in the Parliament, which are now being given on these final assessments and final assignments, and on the graduations. Of course, that's what they're waiting for, right there, with the bladders, what happens to all of these people. But there has been a great response, and thanks to all students and students and teachers and staff and then, of course, parents. This isn't easy for anyone. Then there is the situation itself, and also the others and where we are at the moment: we are still in this so-called disease-restriction phase. In the case of swine influenza, the restriction period in 2009 lasted for three months. Now we have not been at this restriction stage for very long, but there is, of course, a different situation, because this is moving faster and in that sense the limitation period may be shorter. We've been talking a lot about testing here. I think we should remember now that these test cassettes alone are not enough. Even if we get those test cassettes so that they spread to the field, it is not enough, but, first of all, for the sake of the person himself, that we know whether the disease is a disease, but also because of the prevalence of the disease. But when it's not enough, it's just a test tape. We need a sampler. We need protective equipment for him. We need analysts, we need reagents, we need machines, then we need chain trackers who find who has been contaminated in this situation. Then if there is a positive result, then it is necessary to treat the disease. This whole process needs to be put in order. It has now become apparent that those parts are missing between the process. That would be of the utmost importance now that, since the WHO also thinks so and I myself have always felt that you should test, test, test, test, and so on, it should be done, not only with the sores but also with the antibodies. And they need to be designed because some of the antibody tests give evidence at an acute stage and some at a later stage that you have fallen ill. We need to make a plan, make a strategy, make a decision. Well, two more things to prepare for. Now there is a lot of talk about the fact that we need that staff. In fact, when I have been training health professionals for over a decade, I would say that the hospitals have now gone well, for example, for surgical anesthesiologists to train the power units. Breathing machines and everything else need to be updated, their use and everything. But then we need nurses to replace them, for example, in the interior care department, we need nurses for surgical wards, because not all the patients are in the ICU, and besides, there is a need for nurses there. [The President knocks ] Then, of course, one more important thing is the pharmacist. In other words, the pharmacist is currently not the first to be identified and included in critical areas under the Emergency Act, as are health professionals. I definitely believe that in order to get medical treatment under control, our pharmacists must be tested in the same order as health professionals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u51	Mr President! It is necessary to extend the duration of these restrictions, and that is what we are all considering. That is absolutely crucial for these measures. The duration of the measures and the need for quarantine measures will depend on how serious the financial consequences will also be. The amount of hospital equipment needed also depends on the duration. It has been well pointed out in this Chamber that, when demand is growing almost everywhere in the world, there may indeed be surprises in the populous countries as to how certain supplies, equipment for testing or, for example, protective equipment will become exhausted, and it is important to prepare for this, as has now been done and the need for our equipment has been constantly updated. But it is good to think about the overall duration and how long it can be if this epidemic of ours lasts for the first wave and then possibly even longer for further waves. It now seems that quite a number of European countries have turned to a strategy which is trying to narrow down the disease and epidemic and has developed a range of mobile technology aids to this end. The examples of Germany and Iceland are interesting and it would be important to consider whether the EU can jointly exploit these applications. When they have been developed with the best powers, for example in Germany as a collaboration between health authorities and technology companies, are these aids that we could also use here in Finland, or are different countries now making progress at national level by their own means? There should certainly be closer cooperation here. After all, this much-spoken testing would also be easier if we had an automated way of tracing the transmission chains to point out to these people that they have been with the person with whom this infection is present. This is largely based on this, and I do not quite understand why the shortage of staff is based on this particular issue, because even now it does not necessarily require a medical prescription if you are left with mild symptoms in quarantine at home. I understand that these mobile technology models are based on the same type of guidelines, which then point out to the infected or infected person that he should stay, for example, for two weeks in close proximity to home conditions and possibly the whole family at the same time. When it is said that it is difficult to get the components or personnel of a test or another area together, it is also very important to consider how difficult it is for the many children who are at home in the face of domestic violence, for those who lose their jobs to be laid off or laid off. Every time you say that someone is difficult, you have to think that this is a very difficult situation on every side, and that it may be that, in fact, what at first sounded difficult should be clear. All sides need such a can do attitude now at every level. It may be that when a pandemic is swept over the world, the economic countries will also rise up differently from this, depending on how well the supply chains have been traced and isolated. In any case, every week when the doors of restaurants are closed, the jobs don't run, it's really expensive. For future competitiveness, it is good to remember that we also have a government programme that promises an ecologically, economically and socially sustainable future. These good goals should not be forgotten. We must not forget our values in the midst of such a crisis either. It is also important for the EU to show its cooperation power in such a situation. We have a lot of things that we can do by scheduling in such a way that no country will suffer if we share resources, but we can do so with good scheduling and planning and possibly with the EU's common security of supply centre, the pharmaceutical industry, research and so on and so on. The question was whether Finland would be the same country after this crisis. Perhaps the bigger question is whether the world will be the same and whether it has also, in some respects, gone for the better, whether it has been able to cooperate constructively or whether such an epidemic will break us apart more. It is clear that we need to work towards working together, we are taking smart measures throughout the world and, of course, in our EU region. With these words, of course, I wish all of us a great deal of wisdom and strength in creating this common picture of the situation, and thank you for all the good speeches which, in my opinion, have given rise to the points that need to be made about such a huge social issue and crisis. Thank you also to all the companies that have done their best here, and let us remember that we are hopefully still stronger than the current situation and the situation before the crisis, when we believe that there is a high level of expertise and technology and entrepreneurialism here, on which it is good to continue to build.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u52	Mr President! We are discussing here the continuation of the powers of the Emergency Act, i.e. the continuation of distance learning in comprehensive schools, and like many other representatives, I am concerned about the daily supply of food to children in times of crisis. For far too many children and young people, a meal from school is the only warm meal of the day. Now many children are left without the only warm meal of the day. Minister Andersson replied to this concern here today, saying that it is not for the State to decide how each municipality manages its own school meals situation. This is certainly true, but I would imagine that a great many decision-makers would expect a clear signal from the government as to how this problem can be resolved. This signal does not have to mean reducing the power of the municipal decision-maker, but rather providing support and assistance in a case where many municipal decision-makers have quite a lot to chew on in addition to their own day-to-day running. Unfortunately, we are now in a situation where municipalities operate differently, and this puts many children in a very unequal position. I would also like to thank Mr Kinnus for raising the same concern from the Government Party. We're not alone with our concerns. Now it is important to shoulder the responsibility you have wanted for yourself. My question is: what is the government going to do, that all children and young people are entitled to one hot meal a day, and how will it be implemented?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u53	Mr President! I took the floor earlier — there were still some points to be made and I will come back to them here. In the recession of the 1990s, more than 30,000 companies went bankrupt, and in retrospect, there was a clear reason why companies needed clean money to cope with that situation. They did not receive it, and the result was bankruptcy and, with these too, an enormous number of unemployed people. This is the same situation: many of our companies were in very good shape until a month ago, provided good services, had produced them for years, even decades, and now the euro will not be in the cash register after the customers have drowned, and it is then that direct financial support is urgently needed. Many have asked whether the state could not, for example, direct rental subsidies to companies. I'm sure that would be necessary for a lot of people. It now seems that too much of this business support money is being channelled through various development projects and development measures and reorientations and others to such targets that they do not go to the grassroots level where this money is most needed. Company forms also seem to be in very different situations, and, for example, self-employed entrepreneurs who employ them seem to be interveners in this as a whole. We have proposed that VAT be refunded at the beginning of the year, and that would be a quick, very fair, fair way of helping companies beyond this difficult situation, but not all companies will, of course, pay VAT, and then, for example, we will need rental aid or other direct support for companies. The abolition of VAT for services, for example, for a six-month period, has also been proposed by entrepreneurs and could be quite a welcome idea. One condition that comes right through here is that if the company has had some difficulties before the corona crisis, they will automatically close off these subsidies. I understand the type of situation that a company has already been bankrupt and would have gone without a corona, I am not talking about them, but I am talking about companies that have had some financial difficulties and are now being excluded from these subsidies. It is a bit like saying at school that we do give tutoring, but the condition of the tutoring is that the grade should be at least commendable. These entrepreneurs are now almost completely forgotten. I also said a few words about schools, about school meals. For example, Loppi and Janakkala, my municipality of residence, share two-week food packages at home, and at the same time teach household skills. Personally, I am concerned that this government does not see the problem of having children who are in close proximity education because the family does not have the financial means to stay home with the children and telework is not the issue for them either. I hope that the government will see the children of these low-income, poor families equally and not expose them to these plentiful contacts in local education. I also think it is necessary to approach the role of teachers in this in a somewhat more responsible way. Finally, Mr President, on the delimitation of Uusimaa. I have said that this system, which has now been introduced, is too slow. It should have been brought into force with a faster timetable, and it seems that police resources are also going to go a long way in this regard, you might say: if 15,000 stops are made in the morning and 25 have to be turned and there are many police officers present at these smallest control points, then we have to ask whether there are any other solutions. In my opinion, the government should make the decision that there should be only one police or police force to lead this operation and then, for example, a reserve army to support this activity. That would be a good and sensible solution for more efficient allocation of police resources. Finally, I would like to thank you for the fact that at least part of this green band has now been introduced for heavy traffic and the transport sector, hopefully in the future also for those who are moving to critical jobs, such as nurses, doctors, police officers, firefighters and Border Guards. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u54	Mr President, ärade talman! Vi diskuterar nu en förlängning av de åtgärder som vi slagit fast till den 13 april, och som nu gäller då en månad till, alltså fram till Floragen den 13 maj. En förlängning är i nuläget befogad och det är viktigt att vi också följer med det arv vädigt noga. Redan nu vet vi att vi har lärt oss massor av det ox, och en del åtgärder har kanske funnit sina former under vägens gång, och jag är säker på att vi under det rai — efter att den lägger sig den rai pandemin — också kommer att diskutera en hel del kring lagstiftningen och vad som brode ändras på. Då det gäller distansundervisningen så är det alltså också en fortsättningen. Vi Hade i går öte med kulturutskottet och fick en situationsbild av det rauh och läget, och där finns förstås en del orosmoln kring kanske framför allt vämmåendet i hemmen och familernas situation, och också förstås att lärrna ska orka arbeta. Vi vet att ungefär 22 percent av barnen som hör till småbarnspedogiken är i daghemmen. I förskolorna torde det vara något under det rai, och 7 percent av eeverna i årskurs 1, och sedan också en del av dem som har särskilt töd är i närundervisning. Övriga är på distansundervisning. Jag vill poängtera bull att det alltså handler om distansundervisning, att det inte är hemundervisning. Det är en stor skillnad där. Jag vill rikta ett stort tag till lärrana och till det fantastiska jobb som man har gjort. Man har sett olika exempel från YouTube till exempel och andra canaler hur det har fungerat. Men också tag till övrig scolpersonal, kökspersonal och så vidare som har jobbat, och framför allt till föräldrarna som har ställt upp på det ox. I sak som man inte har pratat om så Jättemycket är förskolorna och den undervising som sker i förskolorna. Här finns en del skillnader från kommun till kommun, och ra vill jag tacka min hemkommun. Min dotter går i förskola och jag vill tacka personalen i min dotters förskola i Malax som varje dag skickar massor med olika arbetsuppgifter till barnen — eller dottern nu i det ox fallet hos oss — som de då gör hemma. Regeringens rekommendation är alltså fortfarande i bruk: att man så långt som öjligt ska ha barnen hemma, och i förskoleundervisningen och årskurs 1 to 3, att de stannar hemma så långt som möjligt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u55	Mr President! Many good speeches have been made here today in connection with these preparedness laws. I would like to make a few comments myself, above all on how, after this crisis, we should look at these preparedness laws and what may have been the challenges we have now seen. If something good is now to be sought out of this corona crisis, which is of course very difficult to do, then it is a kind of test effort in relation to this emergency law, if you think that perhaps a more traditional threat of when the preparedness laws could come into use would be war. It is good that this situation has, however, been like a pandemic and not like a state of war, which would of course be the most catastrophic option. This situation has certainly not been easy, and I am afraid that the worst is yet to come. With regard to these contingency laws, a certain degree of slowness has been observed. On the other hand, I am pleased that, in a democracy such as Finland, we have had a strong parliament that has monitored compliance with the laws, and this is how the rule of law should be. But if you imagine that the situation would require even faster action and, as it were, even more extensive rights, then after this crisis, you will have to look at how these preparedness laws should be developed, and I think that this should be done in parliamentary terms. I have also thought a lot about setting up such a Defence Council 2.0, just as in the old days such a Defence Council was. Not as if it existed all the time, but as if it were known which high-security and high-skilled civil servants and other people considered important would be involved. It would form a security council like this, which would then be in a situation like this, even during a pandemic or military or even a major IT attack, quickly activated. It could provide support for us decision-makers who would prepare different options so that democratically elected decision-makers would continue to take all the decisions and that such practical steps would certainly be taken. I am referring, for example, to this situation at Helsinki—Vantaa, where the Prime Minister last mentioned that it could have gone better. I think it is important that we strive for as good as possible in crisis management. But it is also human to admit that when these new situations occur, those mistakes also occur. But after the crisis, such a certain type of Security Council thinking might perhaps be worth considering, so that it can be quickly activated and have certain tasks — not so much power, but, above all, different options for use by the Government. Mr President! If we think that we are now going through this crisis and perhaps that acute phase is still on the way, then I also think that the second part of this is that we need to think about the post-precautionary period. We need to think about that way out of this crisis. When the number one track is definitely health, we have an important role to play on the second track in employment, entrepreneurship and businesses. I am very pleased that such a group of economic wisdom has now been appointed, which is considering the options of how this expected and perhaps already started recession will then be resolved as quickly as possible. These are the ways we need to think about, time after the preparedness laws: how quickly we return to growth, how quickly we can ensure that people who are now laid off and who may end their employment relationship can return to studies, work or other meaningful activities as quickly as possible. These are, in my view, key issues when we talk about the emergency law: how to evaluate this situation afterwards, how to get out of this situation. On the other hand, on this point, Mr President, I would also like to say that I believe that the use of preparedness laws in this current situation has been justified and, for my part, I fully support them. I hope that these restrictive measures already taken will be sufficient, but at the same time I am prepared to go into more stringent measures, if the situation so permits, but it must be examined in its entirety and always the best decisions taken in relation to the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u56	Mr President! At the end of the day, I thought to say a few words about today's theme, namely the preparedness law, on the extension of the powers previously introduced. Given the current state of the corona virus epidemic, the government's proposal has been sound and justified. The restrictions on mobility introduced a couple of weeks ago and the reduction of social meetings have produced results and the pace of the epidemic has slowed down. Yet the hardest one is just ahead, and the disease continues to increase. Therefore, restrictive measures must continue to be taken to ensure that it is the most important thing, namely the health of Finns and the critical adequacy of intensive care facilities. I would also like to thank the government for informing us this morning. First of all, it is good that the government is now improving the coordination of crisis management. The need for this fist, or what anyone wants to say, has been evident, among other things, in order to remedy the shortcomings in the guidelines of tourists who have returned to Finland. Secondly, it has been good to note that, within the government, plans for the creation of a so-called exit strategy are also progressing. The four wise working groups set up today by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment and the Ministry of Finance should look forward to concrete proposals on how to close the Finnish blockade in such a way as to minimise the damage to our economy. Then I also hope that non-governmental parties or their representatives will have the opportunity to discuss the implementation of these proposals. Here, too, we share a common goal. The third and, in fact, important news for overcoming this epidemic today was that the government is continuing to increase the testing of coronavirus. The WHO has considered extensive testing as one of the main tools for controlling the spread of coronavirus pandemic, and experience, particularly in South Korea, but also, for example, Iceland is telling us that this also works. So thank the government for responding to these wishes. Mr President! As far as this proposal on the temporary closure of restaurants is concerned, my message to the government is twofold. The decision itself to close restaurants until 31 May must be understood in order to protect the health of Finns from the worsening coronavirus pandemic in the coming weeks. Instead, what I cannot be satisfied with is government action or, in fact, lack of action to improve the position of restaurant entrepreneurs now in need. Of course, there is plenty of text in this government proposal. In the explanatory memorandum, the Government lists all the forms of support that are already in place or in preparation. However, depending on the type of enterprise and the number of persons, these types of aid apply to all companies and are not individually tailored to restaurants. Many restaurant entrepreneurs are frustrated by this situation, and it is therefore appropriate to ask when the government will inform about separate support for restaurants in particular and bring proposals to Parliament's deliberations. Mr President! In the event that the government does not have effective means of facilitating the situation in restaurants, I recommend that you look at the means put forward by the Assembly last Thursday. The change in the right to exit from the Alcohol Act, the extension of the tax advantage for lunch vouchers, the extension of the service vouchers for people over 70 years of age and the extension of the household allowance, the refund of VAT at the beginning of the year and the interest subsidy for businesses are concrete proposals that you can freely use. These are hundreds of companies and tens of thousands of jobs. Now we have to do everything for their future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u57	Mr President! This government proposal did not come as a surprise to anyone, because it was shown in the initial stages that it was not dared to put these, so to speak, even the limits. Of course, at this point there was nothing else in sight except to put it in place and get on with it. Fortunately, the advance forces in the field have understood that from the outset, and their occupations are by police and health professionals alike. Of course, we have to thank them very much for being able — even the police on the Uusimaa border for 14 hours of one call. This morning, I even brought them woolen socks because they're gonna be fine there. There is also a group of people who are a little less and whose position will be quite big after this whole thing and, of course, even during this case, namely the people involved in child protection. The situation is that this is certainly going to happen — I do not want to say, but I am very afraid — even for a decade there. So even if those policemen from the Uusimaa border may already be able to get home as a Midsummer, the child welfare side may suffer from this for another ten years. I was four years old, and I didn't watch the movie at the time, but then I watched it as a parent, but as a minor, and I wondered with my eyes at what this life could be like. The film Mikko Niskanen’s Eight Death Bullets inevitably comes to mind: where the future of this country can go at its worst in certain family interests because of this case. That is why it is extremely important that we now strike so much and so quickly and so much resources to tackle the interest rate and try to prevent as much business bankruptcies as possible, unemployment and so on. This is not the time, and there is no way to steal anything in any way. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u58	Mr President! The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is also in force in exceptional circumstances. Everyone has the same human rights, the right to life. There have been misunderstandings about this. It is worth remembering that disability is not a disease but a quality. Some people with disabilities may be at risk because of their illness. They should be protected in a special way. Persons with mental disabilities and other disabilities should not, in principle, be excluded from intensive care. The need for intensive care should be assessed and performed separately for each individual despite injuries. You don't go to intensive care if it doesn't help you. The most vulnerable must not be left behind. No one can be transferred to the tail of treatment lines solely because of injuries. I do not think that we want to do this. I am in favour of the government's restrictive measures, all of which, together, will have the effect of not having to rush to situations where doctors are forced to choose who can fit in intensive care. It should be remembered that during this crisis, diseases other than corona are also seriously affected. That is why we must all stand by these restrictions and the difficulties involved. Restrictions should be made for as short a period as possible to minimise the long-term impact on society. Restrictions must be necessary, and this need must be assessed at all times. Together, we must shoulder the responsibility of surviving from now on. I wish strength to all parents of special children, to all parents and teachers at this extraordinary time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u59	Mr President! In my first speech, I raised health, economic and safety issues and I would like to continue on safety issues. It is, of course, essential that these restrictions are now extended. For schools, for example, the length of the extension is about one month, but the dates are 13 May and 31 May. It's less than three weeks apart. As Mr Laakso pointed out in his speech, it is particularly important that we should be able to help these families before the summer begins. In that sense, I appeal to the government to give careful consideration now to whether it makes sense, however, to restore the normal functioning of schools in the form that is now possible in May, so that children can be met in schools and the situation of children and families. I talked about the beginning of the week about one big city — let me be frank, not Oulu, though Oulu is my hometown, but with someone else in the big city — the head of the Child Welfare Unit, and she pointed out that this early year in child welfare is a so-called peaceful time, but then in this April to May comes the pressure that comes from the normally held semester and before the summer. In other words, as early as the normal spring, all places in child welfare will be full in April and May, and it will certainly be visible. Child welfare is now a little ahead of the storm, and therefore municipalities should be able to prepare. Unfortunately, there is a message from several municipalities at the moment that all the places are full. Some municipalities have no places to buy, no foster families, no institutional sites, and yet, when problems accumulate, these problems most critically require immediate action: either the child is violent or someone else in the family is violent. It is very difficult to get help in situations within families if this situation persists over the summer and help can be provided or properly caught up in their right concern only in early autumn. In the normal situation, when it comes to child protection, it will be calmer in the summer, which means that this has just begun in April and May will be the most urgent. The municipalities do not even have a shortage of money, they actually have recruitment problems. In the near future, the government should also consider whether, for example, child protection services can temporarily go to one of the overfill points. Is it better for a child who needs protection in an urgent situation to be allowed some time, even if the overfill site — the staff will of course — or if it is said that there is no place in which the child could even be temporarily placed? So this side is really big, and then it has to do with these school restrictions and how long the situation will continue. The situation of the recession in the '90s should not be repeated. At the time, he was an elementary age and the family business went bankrupt and stuff. However, I know the feeling that there were hobbies and there was school, but now we have the situation that many families do not have the opportunity to do anything because the hobbies have been stopped or there are some remote opportunities. There is no school either, so the child has been taken away from the entire safe environment that gives hope. We have 600,000 comprehensive school children, and it cannot be that the health issues of the corona crisis for all of us fall on Finnish entrepreneurs, but neither can it be that our children and young people will have to pay for this in the years to come as different challenges. Mr President! To the end, one major challenge lies in all our political systems. Anyone who has been responsible for municipal decision-making and in this Chamber knows that the economic impact of preventive action and the overall economic impact are very difficult to verify. In the area of child protection, for example, too much has been done to deal with the consequences, because they are legal and not the reasons for them. Last season I looked at the total cost of child protection, which is a little difficult to compare because municipalities mean them a little differently, but roughly our cost of child protection had risen from just under EUR 200 million in 2005 to EUR 750 million in 2015. This tells us, therefore, that as a society we have not been able to tackle these causes and give families timely and early support, but that we are dealing with the consequences that are legal. Now, in this Chamber of all our politicians, all those responsible and all the decision-makers, we must decide that we will also take care of its preventive side and not just leave that bill to be paid for the consequences in the years to come. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u60	Mr President! There has been a good debate in this Chamber today on the use of the Emergency Act and on the many restrictions and the continuation of citizens' everyday lives. The restrictions in the interest period have many consequences. Some of the schoolchildren will need much stronger support measures in the future. Families need help and advice to cope with corona when living in isolated conditions is a test of strength. For some citizens, the need for assistance concerns mental support and discussion assistance, in some people the need for mental health and substance abuse services increases, in others the need for support is concrete in terms of income and food provision. Mr President! Many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are now expecting emergency aid from the state as a result of various restrictions, and this is on the basis of the decisions taken last week in support of the amending budget. I, too, have received messages from a number of familiar small entrepreneurs. Many feel that the support measures that have been decided upon for them have not been clear and have not yet been communicated in an understandable way. There is a strong need to improve advice services for small entrepreneurs. My friend in Kerava, a small cosmetologist company in my home town, asked me yesterday about coping with the corona situation: do you think any form of support is for a part-time entrepreneur? I did not directly find the answer to this myself, but only full-time entrepreneurs were mentioned in the texts I found. For my part, I asked him whether he had put a written petition in the housing company that owned his business space to relieve rents when it was the fastest help. However, he had been told that he was too embarrassed to present a discount on the rent. I encouraged him to write to his landlord. I said that if the landlord were to free the business apartments of the Stonefoots for the spring, the company would not have ten former bankrupt stores and empty business premises in its hands next autumn without any rental income. Today I received a message from my same entrepreneur friend that after encouragement he had finally dared to send a message to his landlord. To his surprise, he had received an answer that the landlord would grant the business farm full rent exemption for April-May and 50 per cent discount for June and July. This was a fine gesture from his landlord, and similar decisions regarding business premises have been made by other landlords, such as Senate Properties and the City of Helsinki. However, I am not quite sure whether it is a good thing that, in a crisis like this, this is left to the willingness, goodwill and willingness of every landlord to negotiate. In my view, it would be desirable if, when we have taken many other historic decisions in this situation of interest rates, such as restricting the opening hours of restaurants and, for example, the organisation of cultural events, the government would also consider the proposal to temporarily halve rents at least. This would be an exceptional response in times of crisis, but so have many other recent legal changes. Mr President! This weekday in the corona period has led to a sharp increase in demand for various types of shopping carried home. There is a strong demand for the home delivery of grocery stores, and many have become users of them who have never ordered anything at home before. Many restaurants and cafés are now trying to increase their take-away sales and have also taken advantage of the services of food delivery companies. This is also a good thing for many customers who are isolated at home, but I would like to point out at this point that these start-up companies that deliver food rations to their own employees, whose customer numbers have now grown very much, could also expect responsibility for their own employees. Since the food messengers of the largest service providers supplying restaurant food at home are freelancers, they are not entitled to sick leave, for example, for workers. This has been a problem for food messengers even before the current corona epidemic. So it also applies to other diseases. Often, even with mild flu symptoms, a food messenger is forced to work or loses his income completely, often taking food to customers who are now isolated because of the illness, thus increasing the risk of the food messenger’s own illness. That is why I would like to appeal to the food ambassadors for safety at work. Similarly, I hope, on the basis of the social responsibility of the food delivery companies, that these companies that are now raising their profits will at least provide their suppliers with enough protective equipment and disinfectants and, at least, will not expect them to pay for their small wages themselves as freelancers. I would also like to ask the government whether it has been possible to pay attention to the labour market position and safety at work of food ambassadors, i.e. freelancers, in the government. The workers of the food delivery companies themselves campaign to be brought into normal employment relationships, but they are regarded as freelancers because, unfortunately, no alternative has been offered to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u61	Mr President! As the Commissioner for Labour Protection of the Police, I raise my concern about a matter already raised by Mr Heinonen, namely police supervision here at the borders of Uusimaa. At the moment, several dozen and dozens of police officers are carrying out controls on a 24/7 basis, and if this continues even until the summer, it will be a very difficult situation for these policemen as soon as 16-hour shifts take place, and the police live for three weeks, i.e. 116-hour 15-minute hours. Where, then, do we take these police officers at the same time as they have already completed their hours at the Uusimaa border? And when unemployment increases considerably, it is an inevitable fact that the number of home alarms and burglaries and so on will also increase considerably in the near future. For this reason, I believe that consideration should be given to the assistance of the military, the Defence Forces, in such a way that the military police, in accordance with official assistance, could be placed unarmed to carry out these inspections, but under the authority of the police, in order to significantly reduce the number of police officers at the checkpoint, which would also be sufficient for the local authorities to carry out these checks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u62	Mr President! This Government Decree, which is now being discussed by Parliament, will continue to exercise the competences of the Emergency Act on Social and Health Care and Education until 13 May. It is clear that, in this situation, it has certainly been very carefully analysed that these measures are necessary in the context of the corona epidemic in order to avoid the worst scenarios and threats. But at the same time it is necessary to point out that when we have left anyway that we cannot put an end to this epidemic here, we must always strike a balance in the fact that the restrictive measures are proportionate and we do not do them too strongly so that we have to keep these restrictions for many and many months, so that this epidemic, in a way, is progressing so slowly that it can happen so that our economy will suffer such serious damage that we can say that the side effects of the drugs are worse than the symptoms of the disease itself. And looking for this balance is really accurate all the time. I would also like to point this out because we are continuing here, not to close school education, but to move the physical education of schools to distance education, and when we look at statistics internationally, young people and children are close to zero in mortality from coronavirus. There are some very unusual cases in the statistics that a child or young person has died from it in the world, but they are very rare. And I understand that this means that children are mainly at home and in remote education at the moment, in order to prevent this from spreading so strongly through children and young people to the rest of the population. This is also supported by the fact that when you look at those medical publications, the majority of people, more than 85 percent, seem to have the disease caused by this virus either asymptomatic or mild symptoms, and then many carry this virus without knowing it, and this is a problem in a certain way in this case. I would also like to point out that when I have been able to follow very closely the very flexible transition of Finnish teachers from school facilities to remote education, I must admire that flexibility. In fact, although it is a rather challenging situation and children have a very different capacity to take part in that teaching and study with technical equipment over the network, it seems that this has been very well done in Finland. Yes, we must express our warm thanks to Finnish teachers. They are highly skilled but also committed to doing that work there in schools and outside schools, in this case in remote education. What this situation has caused — not so much the restrictive measures in the regulation at the moment, but the whole situation — is, in fact, an economic disaster for many companies, and that is why we must be careful that we are constantly following what is the right time when we have to break down these restrictions. Although we are in a situation right now, the look must also be focused on the period after the coronavirus and on it, you can say, ‘rebuilding’,the measures that we have juiced to ensure that as little as possible a healthy Finnish company is confronted with fundamental problems,before taking a course,and we will build a bridge to further growth and employment recovery. We must have that look all the time, not only to ensure that people's health and, of course, ultimately the right to life are safeguarded in this serious epidemic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u63	Mr President! The last speech by Mr Salmon and the sentence in it that we could not put this epidemic out made it clear that I was still having a debate at this stage on an issue which I did not directly touch on in the previous debate. Prime Minister Marin spoke at the same time about both controlling the epidemic and putting it out. Now, Congressman Salmon said that it cannot be turned off. I then asked whether the government had a strategy in this area for action, what these restrictive measures are actually trying to do, what is our objective state of affairs. Now we are going to continue these exceptional circumstances for a month. There is broad consensus on this. What's the situation in a month? Will the emergency conditions be extended for another month? What is the government's strategy then? Are we trying to limit or suppress this epidemic? Even suppression of the epidemic seems to be possible through effective testing and isolation. There is no need for these extensive restrictions on the population as a whole, but restrictions can be imposed on those who are sick and on those who are cured. These restrictive measures are very expensive in the long term. They cannot be continued month after month. Now the corona vaccine is going for testing according to media data in September. Perhaps at the turn of the year it could be used for some kind of emergency use. Everyone understands that it will take at least that year from now until it is used by the population in Finland for mass vaccination, and that year we cannot continue these exceptional measures. My question is: What is the government's strategy? What will happen if, in two months' time, there is still a situation in which exceptional measures will continue?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u64	Mr President! My view of the government's strategy is perfectly clear: these measures are aimed at curbing and limiting the effects of this epidemic. I myself have received a very strong message from experts in the field who are responsible for this, that we do not have the opportunity to put an end to this epidemic completely or to the spread of the virus in Finland, but that even if we could put it out here for a few weeks or months, it would come back here again in a few months from somewhere in the world. I think it is the case that all measures are being taken to ensure that, in any event, a certain proportion of our population will get and get this virus, even if it is milder or more serious. But these restrictive measures, which are now being pursued here, seek to contain it and to have such a situation that we continue to have our hospital capacity and, above all, our intensive care capacity. It is quite clear that we cannot hold on to Finland for many months, and that is why I raised the question that it is really important to constantly monitor that these restrictions are of the right level and do not get too strong. Otherwise, as a British study pointed out, when it comes to controlling it and ensuring that the capacity for medical and health care is sufficient, it will remain so low that, in a way, the epidemic will continue for more than six months, and it would really be disastrous for our economy. We would not be able to deal with the kind of solution that this would take all year or so many months from now on. It is therefore necessary to constantly assess what is proportionate to this situation, but to ensure that capacity is sufficient for those who are seriously ill also to receive the intensive care if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u65	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. A maximum of 1.5 hours will be reserved for the referral debate. In the case of scheduled cases, the procedures agreed in advance shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u66	Mr President! A Government decree on the temporary limitation of the opening hours of nutritionists to prevent the spread of infectious disease has now been submitted to the House. This decree was adopted by the Government on 31 December. March. This Regulation now provides for the closure of nutritional establishments throughout the country, with the exception of the possibility of selling out. In addition, staff restaurants closed to the public can remain open. They are also affected by the fact that there can be no external customers, but they can also do this take-away activity. This Regulation shall enter into force on 4 April and shall apply until 31 May 2020. This closure now limits people’s chances of meeting in situations where this corona virus is at risk. The central objective of the government is to slow down the spread of the corona virus epidemic through these restrictive measures. This will also ensure the adequacy of important healthcare capacities and healthcare staff as the epidemic develops. In fact, this limitation measure can save lives because, as the epidemic slows down, the demand for intensive care capacity is thus spread over a longer period of time. This Regulation provides for the closure of nutritional movements in areas where it is necessary and proportionate to prevent the spread of the corona virus. According to the expert judgements of THL and STM, it is necessary to extend the closure to the whole country. The different regional closures of restaurants do not prevent the spread of the disease effectively and proactively. According to experts, these regional transmission chains can emerge very quickly and anywhere in Finland. Furthermore, it is not possible to predict the occurrence of these outbreaks in advance, and this assessment is based on international experience of the spread of this virus in different countries around the world. According to data from THL, these viral infections are currently present in all Finnish provinces. However, the number of confirmed infections does not tell us how much of the population in each province actually carries this virus and people with mild symptoms have not at present been tested. We also know that this virus is being spread by people who are not yet asymptomatic. After these existing restrictive measures — restrictions on gatherings, school closures — nutrition movements are almost the only places where people continue to meet to a significant extent, and there these gatherings and people's contacts cannot be controlled in any way, such as, for example, here in Parliament's Chamber, and that is why this restriction is necessary. The regulation on the closure of nutrition movements is in force until 31 May 2020, and the regulation provides that restrictions may then be lifted, if possible, even before the end of May. This condition for landing is assessed separately for each province and restrictions may also be lifted for each region. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will now, together with experts, monitor the development of the disease situation and report regularly to the government of the country on a two-week basis. Restrictions must be lifted when closing restaurants is no longer necessary to prevent the spread of the corona virus. In fact, the whole of Finland has been hampered by the restrictions imposed by law and regulation before the entry into force of these restrictions. All sectors have financial and support schemes at their disposal, which in part facilitate the situation of restaurants. In addition, as required by the Parliament, the Government will examine the needs and opportunities to avoid excessive situations caused by restrictions in the restaurant sector. When determining the conditions and method of establishing a compensation model, account will also be taken of all relevant factors.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u67	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a clear presentation. The closure of restaurants is absolutely the right thing to do in this situation and full support for the government on this issue, which is not quite simple as the Minister's speech has pointed out. It is very important that these restrictions can then be lifted, for example by region and even before the end of May, if the situation so permits. In the case of restaurants too, the government's efforts to support entrepreneurs are more than necessary. Many Finns cannot afford to visit a restaurant normally, let alone under exceptional circumstances, but if possible, we can all support the restaurant industry now in this situation by ordering food for our home. In this context, I also think it is important to say that it would be good to have some uniform practices in food shops, where Finns still have to visit and visit, so that the customer, for example, has the opportunity to disinfect or wash his hands. After all, many traders have been very self-helpful in this and have provided opportunities to protect themselves. Mr President! In this context, I would also like to thank all those who have raised the point that now that the restaurants are closed — and the last ones are closing — alcohol consumption is increasingly moving into homes. This is very important. Many experts have drawn attention to it, and it has also been said in the media that Finns have perhaps more alcohol at home than ever before. In Finland, the use of drugs is one of the most common reasons for taking care of a child. I myself am very concerned about the load and the problems of using both alcohol and other drugs now for children and families. Even under normal conditions, alcohol alone causes enormous annual costs and human suffering for our society. Unfortunately, according to Statistics Finland, alcohol mortality turned to growth in 2018. The number of deaths from alcohol poisonings grew for the first time since 2006. This is a very serious issue, and it is imperative that this issue be taken into account in the context of these restrictions on restaurants and that our family services, substance abuse services and mental health services need special support in this regard. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has rightly stated and stressed that the rights of the child and the best interests of the child must be safeguarded as well as possible now in exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u68	Mr President! The Act on accommodation and food service activities will therefore include a new Article, in force until the end of May, which provides for restrictions on the opening of nutrition establishments in order to prevent the spread of infectious disease. Measures restricting the functioning of nutrition movements are aimed, of course, at limiting social contact and gatherings between people. The implementation of regional closures at different times would not effectively and predictablely prevent the spread of the disease, as the epidemic has spread very rapidly and regional transmission chains or wider spread within the Community will occur in the coming days and weeks across Finland. Restrictions on the freedom to conduct a business are of considerable importance, and this has major economic implications for companies in the food industry. This is a nightmare not only for health but also for the economy. I hope that the direct subsidies provided by the additional budget will find their way to the plight of nutritionists. These are the necessary changes. In restaurants, human contact is so intense that droplet contamination is very possible. However, the Government must closely monitor the need for regulation. Removal of restrictions is possible even before the Regulation expires 31.5. Of course, I want to be optimistic that this should happen. Realism is not in favour of this idea at the moment. The epidemic peaks must be deep in the spring. The provision on the closure of nutritional movements does not apply to the sale of food or drink for consumption elsewhere. Nutritional movements must, of course, ensure that out-sale situations are organised in such a way as to prevent contact with people at risk of infection. Disposal enables operations to continue in a smaller form. In practice, this enables the sale of restaurant products directly to customers for inclusion, the restaurants’ own food delivery services and the activities of food messengers. I would like people, with caution, to take advantage of this opportunity to sell out. It is direct support for entrepreneurs who are wrestling in a situation that they are not themselves guilty of. Restaurants and canteens for schools, day-care centres, hospitals and nursing homes can be open. However, extreme caution must also be exercised. The virus does not select, it does not ask what type of restaurant or canteen is involved. The closure of restaurants alone does not contribute to the spread of the virus, but it is a necessary and necessary part of the whole range of means available to the various regions of society. President! The right to life and to safeguard the health and health of the population in this pandemic would not be possible without action on the freedom to conduct a business. This is the unfortunate truth.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u69	Mr President! The Government's regulation on the temporary limitation of the opening hours of the nutrition sector is a policy and timely measure to prevent the spread of infectious disease, and for that I thank the Government. In this context, however, a few concerns need to be raised. The service and restaurant sector is our largest sector of employment, with around 40% of our jobs and good growth, especially in tourism. The restaurant sector is also a low-wage sector, with a lot of part-time work and a significant proportion of employees also receive adjusted daily allowance as well as some form of income support. Consequently, unemployment is much more severe than in the rest of the industry. There are more than 10,000 companies in the sector and the net growth remains several hundred companies per year. The majority are these SMEs, and they are currently living the same survival story as many other business sectors, and that is why social assistance and support for these companies is needed, as the government has pointed out. In this context, and with this decision, it is particularly important that the remaining decisions on social partners are also taken, which have not yet been agreed, decisions have been taken: the Regulations to improve unemployment security for unemployed workers, the decision to halve the conditions of employment and membership, and the transfer of the maximum time limits for earnings-related daily allowance and the withdrawal of the period of self-reliance for unemployment benefit. Apparently, these are coming to the session on Thursday, then, great thing. In addition, there is concern about the functioning of unemployment funds in mass lay-offs. Let us hope that additional resources will be available to deal with unemployment security and that the humanely difficult financial distress of people in this regard can be eased immediately. The restaurant sector plays an important role in terms of vitality and employment and attractiveness. It is now important that, for example, in the case of rentals, there should be flexibility and much-needed social responsibility for the summer activities of restaurants and other restaurant activities from landlords and property owners. In the case of summer restaurants, for example, many municipalities have been very flexible in their lettings and have released rents, and I also think that Ilmarinen's solution has been a very responsible decision for entrepreneurs. As I said at the beginning, the measure is the right one, and it is hoped that the measures will be dismantled, and, as has been said here in previous speeches, these dismantling measures could be implemented before the beginning of June and restaurant life and Finnish jobs in the service sector will be able to return to normal everyday life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u70	Mr President! There have been good speeches here, and I am not going to repeat them. I would raise the message from that field, from entrepreneurs, about how the media has brought out this closing of restaurants, i.e. that all the restaurants are closed but not to bring out this opportunity to get food there, and this seems to be a clear chafing for entrepreneurs, because there is a lot of feedback about this. So when the media tell you about it, it should also highlight this take away opportunity and in this way support these entrepreneurs in such a way that they have the opportunity to overcome this worst time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u71	Mr President! The Korona virus has spread into a serious epidemic in Finland, which is why we have recently dealt with drastic but even more necessary restrictions in this Chamber. The regulation currently under discussion allows for the temporary closure of restaurants in order to prevent the spread of the virus. Despite this decision, it is possible to sell out of restaurants. In the background of this debate, there is concern about restaurant entrepreneurs and the tens of thousands of people working in the sector: what will happen to them? The Government has announced certain support measures to facilitate the situation in the sector. I would like to say from the outset that I welcome and support this EUR 2000 support for self-employed people, but at the same time, most of these government crisis measures are in fact the channelling of loans to entrepreneurs. For many, loan money is not a real option. Guarantees are not enough, or the cost of funding is so high that, in the midst of the crisis, it makes no sense to go there. It seems unreasonable to me that entrepreneurs should be offered a loan bag for a crisis in which they had no part or lot. No one has been able to prepare for the crisis caused by the corona virus in this country. In addition, the crisis package distributes development funding through Ely Centres and Business Finland. However, these do not help the majority of SMEs, such as restaurant entrepreneurs, out of this crisis. There is not much business development if the corona crisis eats up most of the turnover of a restaurant, café or hotel entrepreneur, as has happened to many at the moment. Many SMEs are going to be excluded from the support measures now decided upon. At the moment, many of them are wondering how to pay the expenses and rent in a situation where customers have lost their way and sales are stalling. They don't have time to wait weeks. Direct and concrete support is needed quickly in order to avoid a major wave of bankruptcy. Furthermore, the jobs of tens of thousands of people are threatened. They must be taken care of equally in this situation. When dealing with the legislation on the closing of restaurants, Parliament called for the government to prepare measures to compensate for the damage that was reasonable for restaurant entrepreneurs' livelihoods. This crisis package must now be brought to the attention of Parliament without delay. We have proposed direct support to the government for entrepreneurs: firstly, the refund of VAT paid at the beginning of the year to deal with the acute cash crisis and, secondly, the rise in employers' contributions so that at least part of the workers can be kept at work in the midst of this crisis. Tax payments must also be made in a flexible way with the tax authority and a fixed-term extension of the increase. I would like to ask the government: when the crisis package for entrepreneurs will be brought before Parliament in order to avoid a large wave of bankruptcy, to save the jobs of tens of thousands of Finns and to keep the hope of the future for thousands of people in this country that an even better time will come after this crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u72	Mr President! These restrictions are very important when it comes to safeguarding human health, and we have all shown our support here in the Chamber. But the government still does not tell us how these entrepreneurs are actually supported. I hope the answer is not again: by guaranteeing a loan. It cannot be possible for companies to be excluded from action and to be driven into financial problems. The interest-rate crisis is not a normal risk for entrepreneurs, and guaranteeing a high-interest loan is not helping an entrepreneur. The big ones survive, the little ones don't. This is very difficult to accept. Large operators – responsibly speaking – transfer employees to other jobs, this is not an option for a small restaurant entrepreneur. What happens when things get normal? The big ones roll fast while the little ones are still agonizing. This can't be our future. Direct payments now, not tomorrow. Tomorrow may be too late. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u73	Mr President! This regulation relates to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the law of closure. They required an assessment of the necessity criterion in relation to the prevalence of the epidemic. The regulation that has been adopted will allow for the later opening of restaurants, depending on the epidemic situation, on a regional scale. This problem, which has now been corrected, has been raised in both committees, both in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. For some reason, the government has implied, at least indirectly, that it is the Parliament's fault that the decision has been prolonged. It should be noted that the lack of government proposals is not Parliament's fault. Moreover, the government must enjoy the confidence of Parliament, not the contrary. Mr President! Next, it is important for the government to find solutions to safeguard the future of restaurant entrepreneurs and ensure fair compensation for reasonable damages, so that the burden is shared also by landlords, banks and insurance companies. The basic income of entrepreneurs must also be safeguarded. I would like an answer to the question of when Parliament will receive more detailed information and new government proposals on separate support for restaurants. The closure made to protect Finns cannot be imposed on individual restaurant entrepreneurs. Mr President! With regard to the rent payments made by these entrepreneurs, we parliamentarians constantly come in contact with the most diverse situations. One conclusion of these contacts is that the situation has not yet been sufficiently well understood by the landlords and that the attitude is partly bludgeoning. The last contact with the signatory came from an entrepreneur who operates in a property owned by a state-owned company and carries on business there. His inquiry was answered: ‘We do not grant rent relief, payments can only be transferred. “ This was therefore a state-owned company's premises and, suddenly, in this Chamber, where we are at the moment, our ability to influence this type of situation is exceptionally good. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Government intends to use ownership control to resolve this type of situation. One could imagine, and would expect, that the State as an operator would now be exemplary in reducing these rent charges.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u74	Mr President! Closing restaurants and diners is a good thing if we want to prevent the spread of the epidemic. But you have to remember that many diners are the living room of a lot of lonely people. There are the only friends, the only friends, who can talk to and spend time with — not everyone is so social that they know other ways to look for those acquaintances. There are old groups that meet at certain intervals. Not everyone necessarily drinks much, but now that we close these, so many lonely then start drinking much more so-called underpants at home. And considering that if you buy a five-euro beer at the diner, a couple of beers sometimes during the weekend night, now that you buy home with the same money, you get a lot more beer and will drink a lot more, and if you go to the Alko, then you can buy a lot more ymman spirits, which you will drink right away. Drinking at home will now increase when there is no access to the diners, and domestic violence and other cases of violence are likely to increase significantly at home when alcohol is consumed in a closed space. We know that a lot of police resources are now being used, whether it was 10%, for this closure of Uusimaa. When 10 percent of the police are in that position, there will be fewer of them in the field, and then they should be able to visit people’s homes to watch them fight. This should be taken into account as to how the resources of the police can be sufficient. Well, then, if you think about this restaurant survival, it's gonna be really hard. We will have many restaurants to fall, the diner to fall, and so will jobs also disappear. When we get out of the corona, there will not necessarily be jobs — they will sometimes come much later. After all, not every restaurant has food to serve, so they don’t even have it to sell it out so that they can sell it out. Then we must remember that these restrictions, which are being made, do not apply only to restaurants. Now that this is how many people are allowed to be in the same space, we are about to crash indoor playgrounds, cinemas and many other places like this where there are many jobs, so supporting these businesses is really important now. In view of the fact that restaurants are often located in city centers, the rent costs are already very high. Now we've got to get these braces on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u75	Mr President! I would like to take a general position on how this preparedness law and this crisis situation can be dealt with. I think we discussed the agility of the emergency law here on Friday or, in fact, the fact that it is not agile. Now Mr Ojala-Niemelä, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is also here, and he too said that it is quite true that, after this crisis, we must start preparing a new law on preparedness, which, if necessary, is more agile to respond to these situations. I would also like to take a position before I go to the core of the day, a debate on how parliamentarians should evaluate or criticise — some even call it a crackdown that brings different views and critical views to this debate. I myself wonder that, for example, a good leader never wants people who are afraid to tell him when the leader is going wrong. What do you do at that "yes" club or at meetings if everyone just says "good leader, great leader"? Here we want to bring up the concerns and views that will also help the government and ministers to make the right decision. Finally, the fact that we are actually taking care of it here, as has been decided by the committees at the moment, is that only the necessary issues will be dealt with. There is no point in bringing things here now that cannot move forward and which are almost impossible even for people to implement. An example of a government proposal has been used here to impose obligations on housing companies to build charging points for electric cars. We now have other concerns, that is quite clear. As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, it has already been pointed out in previous speeches that the support of sole entrepreneurs, which is EUR 2000, apparently a lump sum, is really, really small. I myself received a message from a well-known small entrepreneur who told me — and who has also shared this on Twitter — that he had the loan papers signed and Finnvera takes a commission of 3% on it, then a EUR 160 commission. He considered this to be very strange given that this is a state-owned company. Finnvera will reply here later that it is also a question of covering their share of the credit losses. Well, I don't know if it's quite reasonable now that, in this situation, we're going to start taking commissions and commissions from customers for this small money. Perhaps, in this situation, we could go to the free-of-charge line and then the government will take on these. The criterion must be sufficiently clear that loans are granted to healthy companies. And, of course, I wish the Minister of Labour the strength. You don't have an easy situation right now. I have just considered that almost 321,000 people have been laid off or laid off because of this situation, and that is something to think about. I thought that Halla-aho, the chairman of the Finns Party, put it on Twitter when people were encouraged to go to farms or farm halls to work. I would like to ask what our President-in-Office on Twitter just asked: what concrete steps has the government taken to ensure that these seasonal workers actually get to work there? MTK states that in Varsinais-Suomi, for example, there are 350 seats available in the horticultural and special plant sector. How people get there now, that's what I'd like to know. Still, does the Minister have any information on how to deal with Finnvera, for example? Is it reasonable that these fees should be taken from there? I don't know if the Minister of Labour actually knew this. This is a little difficult when these regulations concern so many sectors, and the ministers cannot all be present at the same time. But if anyone else now listens to this there on the board side, then this kind of message comes to us representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u76	Let us take a few more speeches and then let Mr Haatainen answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u77	Mr President! As far as I can see, the support package of over EUR 1 billion for companies combined with Finnvera's increased concessions is a pretty clear signal that this rescue of companies cannot be caught for money. But instead, it is a challenge to make the money available effectively and quickly to entrepreneurs in order to prevent them from going bankrupt. When more effective procedures are developed, there will certainly be additional readiness to examine what other measures need to be found. It is now essential for small businesses, such as restaurants, to develop the activities of ely centres and municipalities in order to make the money more efficient. In my view, it is quite understandable in a certain way that, when suddenly the concession is multiplied, it is a fairly urgent challenge there locally to try to think about what is now the fairest way to distribute this money to our local companies. The Ely Centres and the municipalities themselves are the right actors in this: they have the contacts, they have the knowledge, they know the situation in that area. They can best be targeting this money. But understandably, when suddenly there are many or many ten times more work than before and we start hiring additional people under these exceptional circumstances, it does not happen by clicking on fingers, unfortunately. But at least I myself have received the message from the local level that there really is a will. The Ely centres and municipalities will try their best to find these quick solutions. Some places have already been supported and aid has also been granted in situations where it is not necessarily a development project, but it has been recognised that it is a crisis that has to be overcome, and that there is a need to support entrepreneurs. One of the challenges now is how all this local development and all this information can be distributed as well as possible, how best practices can be spread across the country, so that there is no situation where the best way to support entrepreneurs, especially restaurant entrepreneurs, is found, but then the others will not be informed, and the best models will remain in the area of just one Ely Centre or even one municipality. That is why this open debate, communication and information sharing is absolutely central to this. In fact, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also paid particular attention to the fact that we now have to try to support businesses as equally as possible, and that is why it is important that, even if we act quickly and effectively, the criteria and the processing of applications are fair. Of course, it can be recognised that there are areas in particular affected by this crisis, but as soon as you start listing them, that list will be extremely long. That is why it is important to pay particular attention to the needs of businesses and not to try to treat certain sectors differently. These needs can vary from region to region, and that is precisely why this transparent, neutral set of criteria and this cooperation at local level is central to this. No one should receive the message that there is some confusion about where the public money comes from, and that is why this functioning and transparency of the administration is at the very heart of this. In short, as far as Finnvera is concerned: Finnvera was here last week in the Committee on Finance to present its activities, and the fact that the concession was raised from 2 billion to 12 billion, i.e. 10 billion in such a short period of time, relies largely on Finnvera's running itself. In other words, it is precisely this rapid response capability that relies on the confidence that there is no need for the 10 or 12 billion states to put it there, but that there is a real need for these guarantees to run as if without losses, but of course there is a constant willingness to see that if there is a need for state support and assistance, then it can be done quickly. But in this situation, it has been a good thing that we know Finnvera is spinning independently and fluently. We know that we can be confident that when there is more guarantee power, they will act responsibly with it and there will not be such a massive fear that what if the losses suddenly come to the taxpayer's expense, and it has partly made this flexibility and speed possible. So, on the other hand, while it may appear to some as a negative thing, there have also been some of these positive aspects, and all the time it is being balanced and seen how to ensure that, even in these crisis situations, those criteria work as well as possible. But now, all the time, it is quite possible for the state to become an even tougher price tag from this crisis than we can foresee. It is entirely possible that this government, but also future governments, will carry that price tag. It is therefore important that the whole Parliament commits itself to the fact that, together with this economy, responsibility is still being carried forward, and that we do not start blaming anyone for the fact that there is a real willingness to help those entrepreneurs, but that responsibility is being assumed for the fact that, now that the price tag is created, we will be together in the coming years to see how the Finnish economy can cope with it. We know that if there are no companies in Finland, then at least we will not survive the price tag, which is why this very long-term and understanding is important in this situation. In short, I think it is worth thanking you for the fact that, now that the Constitutional Committee has already debated this issue, these implementing regulations have produced a very comprehensive and comprehensive statement of reasons and a regulation corresponding to questions and concerns. This procedure should continue to go on, that whenever someone is identified, something that can be done even better in the next turn, then really the next step will be to do as well as possible. I believe that this has come about. Whenever feedback has come, the Government has responded well to it, and we always go towards better procedures under these exceptional circumstances. That is the most important thing in the end that we are all on the road to development, because here we are all facing a whole new one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u78	Mr President! To begin with, Mrs Merelle commented on the government proposal on charging points for electric cars that we had before us. It was about implementing the EU directive, in which we are already late. That was the argument that was not put forward at the last reading, and that is why I have brought it here. Not everything can be stopped because of the interest rate, although, of course, we need to focus on the essentials now. But here's the thing. Indeed, in recent weeks, under the leadership of the government, we have made drastic decisions here to safeguard the health of Finns by restricting close contact with the corona virus. It is indeed important that the necessary decisions are now taken to close down restaurants, bars and cafes. The decision to close restaurants addresses the fundamental right to business freedom and the protection of property as defined in the Constitution. I think it is important, like the previous speakers here, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has dealt with this matter carefully, as has the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy. Even in the midst of the crisis, we must be able to take prompt, necessary action, but always with due regard to the constitutional aspect and fundamental rights. For the future, however, it is important to carefully assess when similar situations could be dealt with under the Act on Contagion and when preparedness law is needed. The explanatory memorandum of the Regulation has stated that the need to amend the Act on communicable diseases would be justified in assessing the need for change due to their more principled nature under normal circumstances and to the extent required by their nature. It is indeed worth doing this, and now we are moving forward according to the legislation in force. Mr President! The Government decree means that restaurants, bars and cafés and their outdoor spaces will be closed until the end of May. Food exit and delivery services are still allowed. Regrettably, restaurants, cafés and bars have still been places where people have gathered to a large extent, even though the government has strongly recommended avoiding all non-essential social contacts, and that is why this restriction is absolutely essential for people's health and safety. Mr President! As has been said here, this is a tough blow for restaurant entrepreneurs and all the workers in the restaurant industry. The restaurant sector employs about 50,000 people, and there are also temporary workers, part-time workers, and the chain continues to run for companies that supply products for the use of restaurants. The impact is also particularly severe for Uusimaa, where 40 per cent of all restaurant staff are employed here and 40 per cent of the turnover is generated by establishments in Uusimaa. In addition, Varsinais-Suomi and Pirkanmaa are significant concentrations. These exceptional circumstances and isolation recommendations have deprived restaurants of much of their customers and income even before this Regulation. As has been said here, many entrepreneurs have taken this opportunity to continue to sell pick-up food, and the Finns must be grateful that they have also gone through this to support them by taking it up. This creates hope and shows that we Finns have a desire to bear solidarity. Of course, the restaurant is responsible for ensuring that food is ordered and fetched according to safety intervals and good hygiene. Mr President! According to a recent survey by the Chamber of Commerce, two thirds of Finnish companies intend to lay off or lay off their employees. In more than 40 %, the lay-off warning has already been issued or the negotiations have started. Over 300,000 Finns working in more than 20 jobs have been or are in negotiations. These are really dark figures, both humanly and from the point of view of the Finnish economy. Mr President! Soon after exceptional circumstances began, the government put together a large package of support for companies affected by the interest rate. There has already been a good debate here. Yesterday YLE reported that municipalities are starting to distribute EUR 2000 operating aid to sole entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs and freelancers have also been included in fixed-term unemployment support without the need to drive down business. It is very important that these financial concerns of entrepreneurs are now dealt with in concrete terms, as has been done, and as Mrs Suomela described well here, including by involving the locals in the work. The rescue of many companies would now be for the owner of the premises not to collect rent during the crisis. Some of the landlords have already acted responsibly. Among the majors, the City of Helsinki and pension companies Ilmarinen and Varma have done this. It has been well pointed out here that the type of loan aid is not enough in this situation; direct aid and rent relief are needed. It is now important that landlords take part in the projects to support companies by providing relief for rentals. Earlier in the debate on this regulation, Parliament required that the government take immediate action to support the livelihood of restaurant entrepreneurs, if necessary, during the state of emergency and its dissolution, and that is what we really need to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u79	Mr President! There has been a great deal of discussion here about how this is reflected in the businesses in the restaurant sector and also in the employees working in this sector, the employees. It is clear that this whole pandemic is very hard for this industry. Even before this regulation, the restaurant, hotel and accommodation sectors have seen a huge loss of customers and the financial consequences, and the government has therefore taken up this issue. These support issues are primarily for Minister Lintilä, and here a number of representatives have already described what has been done here. Indeed, Finnvera's financial powers have been increased to 12 billion, and this is as a result of Parliament's deliberations. It is a good thing that this was done, and therefore the possibility of using guarantees and initial guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises has now been extended to cover the financing required by the cyclical situation of the corona virus, and this aid from Business Finland and the Elys can now be used to pay rents and salaries, although it is partly under the name of development money, which is possible. These problems, which have been raised here in the debate, have been identified, and we in the Ministry are currently working on how to further develop these direct payments and sectoral compensations and how to make them serve the restaurant sector, that is to say, these existing instruments and their flexibility are also being dealt with at the same time. At the same time, unemployment security for entrepreneurs is also being regulated, and then this possibility for self-employed entrepreneurs to support EUR 2000 is now being realised by municipalities. All of these, of course, will also make it easier for entrepreneurs in this sector. Then, of course, the situation of businesses will also be facilitated in this sector, in the restaurant sector, by the measures agreed jointly by the social partners, which have now been transposed by me, concerning labour law and changes in the social security system and the facilitation of employers' contributions. As far as these proposals from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health are concerned, I believe they are coming on Thursday as a government proposal, i.e. they are being taken forward. In addition, a change in bankruptcy legislation is being prepared to prevent bankruptcy under the assumption of a one-week call for payment rule, i.e. temporary failure to meet its obligations, e.g. due to the corona virus epidemic, would not be justified by the bankruptcy of the debtor. This government proposal is due to be submitted on week 16. The Government will now, as required by Parliament, examine the needs and opportunities to avoid excessive situations caused by restrictions in the restaurant sector, and that approach of compensation will, of course, take into account all the relevant factors, including the fact that restaurant activities have become more difficult even before the entry into force of this restriction. The starting point for the study is that traders subject to the restriction will receive reasonable compensation as required by Parliament’s statements. All this work is being done at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u80	Mr President! Earlier today, in the Prime Minister's speech, there was a very comprehensive review of the various measures and restrictions that the government has taken in this joint fight against the corona virus. All these restrictions have been necessary, even though they have been strongly restricting our daily lives and our lives. A normal, familiar everyday life is not possible today. It is certainly no longer unclear to anyone what these restrictions are intended to do: to slow down and prevent the spread of the epidemic. For this work, we need the help of everyone in Finland. As the Prime Minister said, we all have a responsibility to protect our own health as well as our fellow human health. I therefore believe that this latest restriction measure, the closure of restaurants, is necessary. This will continue to limit the number of gatherings where people have access to coronavirus infection and the increase in this epidemic. Restaurants and cafes, if any, are places where the epidemic would have an acceptable soil to reproduce and spread. Many restaurants and cafes have already closed their doors before they were forced to do so, and in this context I would like to express my thanks to these restaurant entrepreneurs — they have acted with particular responsibility in this common situation. This whole corona epidemic is hitting the tourism and restaurant sector very hard, both for entrepreneurs and for the many people who work in the sector. There's not a single winner in this business. Today, from my small town in Kankaanpää, I was informed of the closing of the doors of a lunch restaurant — very sad, and unfortunately this will not be the only one in its series. It is clear that entrepreneurs need support to deal with this situation, and, as has just been heard in Mr Haatainen's speech, these support measures have already been demonstrated to entrepreneurs in a short period of time. However, there is still a huge need for further support. There are several speeches in this Chamber, the last by Mrs Elo, about the rent reliefs mentioned, and I would see them as being more than necessary now, and if I can do so, I would appeal to the landlords to facilitate rents in this difficult situation. Mr Suomela spoke a moment ago about informing entrepreneurs about support measures. Certainly many Members of Parliament have received calls, messages, contacts from entrepreneurs to clarify these issues, how each entrepreneur, what size of the entrepreneur operates in what situation, and we have certainly given these advice. In particular, we need to invest in this information so that everyone knows who to turn to for their own company. What can each of us, at least most of us, do in this situation? We use the take-out option specifically and order food at home. Of course, it is not possible for everyone, but we, for whom it is, can all play our part in this matter, so that as many restaurants, café entrepreneurs as possible, the tourism industry can survive this difficult period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u81	Mr President! The most important thing is to prevent the death of coronas. Now the restaurants are closing. The government has made this proposal and decision, and it is very much to be welcomed, as have all those strict measures so far. We should further tighten up, it is to be welcomed, and it is a good thing that the government has taken this line. The time for political action is not now, and the Finns have taken it literally. We're all in this same boat and we have a common opponent. It's a corona epidemic, and we have to win it. I would like to raise one point, which is somewhat backward when it comes to restaurants, cafes, entrepreneurs, including private people, namely over-indebtedness, debt. I had a discussion initiative here four to five weeks ago, and the topic was what measures are being taken, because at the moment 562,144 Finns are in debt and in enforcement. It is a huge amount, and we know that it will grow even more, and how much it will be alarming. Unfortunately, there was this Haavisto Emperor on the same day, and this good conversation we had here was completely out of hand and the media really ignored it at all. But now, too, when we have this situation of interest rates, what will happen to small and larger companies in the future. Many companies also have many employees, more or less — what happens to them? This is very timely. You want to take that protective part up? What about interest rate restrictions, loan marketing, quick-lease companies? They are very eager to advertise and attract people to use them in this difficult situation. It has also been pointed out here that sole entrepreneurs can receive EUR 2000 for a small company, which is very good, but just as Mr Meri said, it will certainly not be enough, because when there is no money in the cash register for a month, between 40% and 50% of companies are in big trouble. If this lasts for 3 months, 70% of companies will be in major problems and that will mean major difficulties. Business Finland, the ely centres, municipalities now support one billion, which is a very good thing, but there is also a problem there that these EUR 2000 subsidies also require that, for example, a small company does not have any kind of default marking or any enforcement, not to mention difficulties or labelling, that there have been some difficulties. Quite a few have been on the way, but they have made a payment plan and are trying to survive it. They are out of the picture altogether, that is, no aid is granted if there is any small problem, and that is with the question mark then. I have also been informed that the real focus should be on getting the support and taking into account those companies that are actually suffering from the corona situation. It is likely that even companies that have not yet suffered from the corona have now received support. It's got to be really tight that it goes to the right target. Then I would also like to raise the point that we actually have more than 300,000 people in the negotiations at the moment, and that means that enforcement is likely to increase and the difficulties are likely to increase. Many people already have the plan of paying and wanting to carry out their obligations, but this is likely to be impossible in this situation. Then there's the spiritual aspect. I'm still pretty upset. We all get a lot of phone calls, and I got a lot of home-service business too. She just cried on the phone and said that she goes to clean up with elderly people and older people. They take it very carefully that they do not break these rules in any way, and the only way out of the world, out here, is the person who goes there to clean up. He thought it was a really big problem that they didn't have anyone. There are also tablets given to elderly people, and they can look all day at that tablet, because there will be one prescription or one instruction for that tablet, which means they are in a very difficult situation when, of course, you cannot see those loved ones. There should now be a way to deal with this spiritual aspect, and so should entrepreneurs, private people, anyone. This is really hard for you. When we talked about this young man’s climate anxiety, now this anxiety can be many times more, just from a baby to a grandfather. And then a little less, yet important: Many people, especially parents, have pets there at home, and now you have to think that it's kind of a safety and company for them, but who goes out and out if there are dogs and cats who need to go out? There are many here, but through these ideas I wish the government a great deal of strength, and we all support these strict regulations, because we all have a responsibility. We really hope that we can move forward in Finland in such a way that we can break and defeat our common enemy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, this matter is important and affects in many ways, but let us try to make the speeches in these nutritional shops and in their opening hours.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u83	Mr President! It is important for society as a whole that the corona virus epidemic should be restricted, controlled and stopped by these various measures, which the government has now taken in this crisis situation for a couple of weeks and is still tightening up. Thank you, too, to people who have responsibly taken the advice of the government and stayed at home whenever possible and avoided contact. It also significantly prevents the spread of this virus and disease. This partial closure of nutrition movements, which is now under discussion, is one of the tightening measures, a drastic measure that must be taken in order to reduce these people-to-people contacts. It will reduce the spread of the corona and thus save lives, as our health care system will then be able to respond to the situation when more people get sick. Of course, these restrictive measures will now cause very serious economic problems for many companies. The companies that have been paying for the hive will certainly fall here, unemployment and lay-offs will come, but the government is, however, showing support to companies through various channels, including unemployment security and also security for laid-off workers. The Trade Union and PAM, the Trade Union for Services, have recently pointed out in particular the fall in sales of speciality goods by up to 90%, and they call for consideration and also for property owners and landlords to meet in rents. In other words, this is the same concern that has already been heard from many people: the landlords have been rather clamouringly involved, at least on the private side, in dealing with this crisis. Also, from my locality and localities, I have been informed — and certainly from many others — by small entrepreneurs that they are falling short of the fact that they have not had the flexibility to pay rent from the landlord, or if they have given half the price for a month, then it will have to be paid back at the end of the year, and it will be overwhelming for many small entrepreneurs. Do we have such possibilities in the legislation that such agreements between companies can in some way be addressed? I do not know whether the Minister of Justice would be able to say — but he is not here — whether there are any clauses that can influence them. Municipalities and cities and insurance companies are making the situation easier for small entrepreneurs on rent by reducing rents in many places where business cannot be done and companies are unprofitable. Then I would like to raise one more interesting point: Now that the government has stated that the sports facilities are closed, as many municipalities have certainly done — I think 100 percent of the municipalities have done it — some of the private people who have invested heavily in sports halls or private halls like this have done it. Some have been responsiblely obeyed, closed, but there may be another company next door, which will then keep open and to which part of the customers will be transferred. Here comes this kind of competitive setting that distorts and is wrong. And I hope that, when some of these companies will at some point be able to apply for help in this situation, it will also be possible to identify which companies have actually had to keep their company closed and which have still kept it open and run it — perhaps some of the activities, group sports activities, have been omitted, but still some people are moving there and going to sports. On the other hand, it is wrong for some companies in the sports sector. Here in the past, some representatives, especially those from the People's Republic of Finland, have raised the need to reverse matters relating to climate action. I'm sure the big picture doesn't have that focus on it right now, but if you think that we don't have to build charging points now, now that there's been unemployment in many areas, there's no work to do, then it's a shame if we still have to do that. [Leena Sea interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u84	Mr President! It is clear that these measures and restrictions are needed. The restaurant sector is about thousands of companies and tens of thousands of employees. Social interaction must be limited in order to protect groups at risk and to ensure the adequacy of staff and intensive care facilities in the care, safety, social services and other critical sectors. There is therefore a need for effective and responsible, prompt action, which was also called for by the Government in the draft resolutions of the legislative amendment on accommodation and nutrition adopted last week. Thank you to the Minister for Labour for being here to listen, because at least for my part some greetings come directly from entrepreneurs, from the business field. First of all, I would like to agree with Mrs Suomela earlier on that it is not money that is caught by helping companies through this corona to get the view that they are waiting there. But there are very different situations in companies, and I have been informed today, for example, by two entrepreneurs, that both Business Finland and Finnvera have refused their application for funding on the following grounds: ‘On the basis of the data on the closure of the accounts,the company’s capital was lost and, therefore, the company is considered to be a company in difficulty. We cannot provide funding at all for a company whose capital has been lost.’ So this relates to this idea of a healthy company, which, on the other hand, is just as difficult to define as which of us human beings is healthy. One feels healthy even if he has a more serious disease, the other only feels healthy when he has no disease. A healthy company can be, as in these feedbacks I have received, such as a software company that has put a lot of money into product development over the past year, hired new people and has a view. For example, there has been an increase of more than 10 % in the last year, but equity is negative, i.e. there is no possibility that the share of equity will be significant or higher. Then there is another company, which is a service company, and one business point has been negative. Last year they have decided to close this office, which has not become a profit. The offices that still exist work in this new situation, and even if they cannot carry out restaurant activities there on the spot, they could have a view of keeping at least some of the workers working, but there will be no funding. This has been an application of EUR 30000. All these state guarantees have become a negative decision. Mr President! Then there is the second feedback from the restaurant business entrepreneur, which relates specifically to the hiring of workers, their staying at work even in this new situation and this testing. In other words, the staff of the food and food restaurants in operation, which are selling out, is of course vital for companies, but when the activities also require clear training, you cannot just take new employees. If an employee declares that he has minor symptoms of illness, he is obliged to be at home for seven days at the moment, because, of course, at the moment this worker cannot be put to the corona tests. This means that, in the case of sick days, the replacement is a company with 28 days' own contribution. If the worker were to be admitted to the corona tests, he would be subject to a direct quarantine order and then sick leave days would be transferred directly to Kela, that is to say, to be replaced by society. This restaurant entrepreneur, who is now re-focused on selling out and wants to see the view, has at the very best four employees in such a personalized home rest. Everyone’s symptoms will be easier within a few days, but when you can’t risk something more serious, the entrepreneur is currently paying their employees a salary at home, because he, as a responsible entrepreneur, says that you cannot come to work, that there will not just be a situation where the employee could get sick at the pick-up point, even if the customer or another employee or so on. In other words, there must now be an absolute change in that these tests can also be taken into the restaurant industry, for those whose business is closed down, or if they cannot simply be tested, then these home rest days imposed by the entrepreneur will be covered by Kela's compensation and then the responsible activities and the entrepreneur will be supported in such a way that they become covered by Kela's compensation immediately and that the operating company will not fall into this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u85	Mr President! Over the past few days and weeks, we have made the crisis-resistant nature of Finnish legislation as regards the Emergency Act and its implementation, and it is evident that in all respects it has not been so flexible to respond to these acute needs in all cases, but in the light of the overall picture, I am very pleased that all the necessary decisions have, however, progressed and are progressing rapidly at the moment, just as we have been able to say together today. We are now dealing with the Government regulation on the temporary limitation of the opening hours of restaurants in order to prevent the spread of infectious disease, which is intended to remain in force until the end of May this year. At this stage, I should like to extend warm thanks to Mr Haatainen, who is responsible for the preparation, for the excellent work he has done, because we are all aware of the urgency with which this demanding but necessary regulation has been prepared. Last week, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy adopted its own report on the regulation immediately after the Constitutional Committee, and we unanimously stated at that time that the proposal was excellently justified and necessary. However, limiting the activity of the accommodation and restaurant sector has considerable economic implications, the size of which is not yet fully accurate. However, it is clear that these effects will increase as the epidemic continues. This exceptional situation, in which we Members of Parliament and the committees have to work at the moment, has, of course, sparked debate, but I am sure that we will all tolerate it under these circumstances. Mr President! In the context of the amending budget, the Government and this Parliament have already taken decisions to support the business field in difficulty in a very significant way. Contrary to what is sometimes implied in this Chamber, aid is by no means limited to facilitating loan financing. SMEs can apply for grants that are possible and even desirable to be allocated directly to so-called fixed costs, such as rents. For sole entrepreneurs, a direct route to direct financial support through municipalities is still becoming available. Given the diversity of the business field, the exercise is by no means easy, but the will to support companies regardless of their form of enterprise is very strong, as Mr Haatainen has already pointed out in his own speech through examples, and this is something that has also been noted among entrepreneurs. This support is also to be commended on a daily basis. Let's just say a few words. These are the challenges that are currently being faced here. I know that efforts are also being made to find solutions to them as regards this payment of subsidies. There is a certain balance: while the payments should be as fair as possible, the criteria being equal and the subsidies being allocated in an appropriate way, it should be ensured that the money and the money are brought to the airport as soon as possible, so that time does not run too far as possible. But with regard to these speed levers aimed at businesses, the Finnish Entrepreneurs have now also raised this issue, most recently at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs today, the Chief Economist of Finnish Entrepreneurs. It has now become known that quick-juvenile companies collect information from registers about companies that have particularly experienced financial difficulties and target this marketing specifically to these operators. In other words, this is an acute problem which, of course, we hope can be addressed. But to this end, I would remind you, just as the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also this House have emphasised the need to compensate for the losses caused by this restriction and also to mitigate the effects on businesses and businesses, particularly in the tourism and restaurant sectors. In its own report, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy called for the immediate launch of complementary support measures to facilitate, in particular, the position of the catering business operators most affected by the negative effects of exceptional circumstances. And while these measures may involve risks in terms of competitiveness and market distortions, it is necessary, in this situation, to take action to ensure the continuity of these companies during and immediately after exceptional circumstances, and it was very gratifying to hear that this preparatory work has already begun. Mr President! Finally, although the prevention of the spread of this epidemic is at this stage our most urgent joint task, the Government must at the same time continue to assess the possibility of limiting the means that have now been put in place and preparing for their orderly dismantling, if necessary on a regional basis, to the extent permitted by the infection situation. This is extremely important so that we can also reduce the economic losses caused by the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u86	Mr President! All possible things have been said here, but I am sure that the way forward should be shown, in particular, for the preparation which the Minister has also mentioned, for the implementation of this compensation arrangement, which relates to the loss caused by the exceptional closure of restaurants. That explanatory memorandum is pretty good in that setting as a pass, but it could be seen in this sort of seven-step thought frame, how should this be viewed. First of all, we are coming to Parliament with these proposals for tax and employer tax deferrals and facilitations, and that is perhaps the first step towards easing the entrepreneurial situation. The second is the facilitation of rent payments, the free months or half, and it should quickly bring about such consensus between the owners of the premises, in a way, that this is really the way it is done across the line. However, surely the most expensive option for the owners of these premises is that, in two, three or four months' time, the company will go to the port and not get the rent for this period and then the additional costs of trying to apply for a new tenant under very difficult market conditions. In other words, there is a common interest here, and it is very noteworthy that, for example, the Association of Employers in the Accommodation and Nutrition sector has actively started to campaign for a solution of this kind, as if it were a global solution, and it is much more sensible than to go out of the way for social support to pay the rent. There is a lot of other expenditure which can then be reduced by these other facilitations. So this would be the second step. The third step is these reduced lay-offs and the payment of unemployment allowance also to entrepreneurs, whom they too are about to receive. They mainly concern those companies that have to be completely closed down and which do not, for example, have this opportunity to sell out. The fourth step is compensation for insurance, perhaps in some circumstances municipal or other income that can be taken into account in these compensation schemes. The fifth is this aid for the situation of the company from the sale out. After all, the conditions vary as to whether and what part of the sale can be organised. At best, it may be close to 100% of normal turnover. When we are completely closed, the demand situation at regional level, at local level, may be very positive, can well generate replacement turnover, but there are also a lot of them to shut down and close down. The sixth step in this debate has been the application of the support measures already decided on, the support measures for all businesses, including those in the catering sector. In particular, this aid, which is distributed through elys to companies from 1 to 5 persons, is suitable for most companies and must be taken into account in the specific compensation which is then needed for this restaurant sector. The seventh step, then, is where this food is perhaps needed: what kind of targeted, complementary support would it be? I myself would perhaps consider such a model, which would include part A and part B, i.e. A would be, first of all, such a lockout allowance per week, for example, when you have to keep a closed office, a café, a restaurant, and it could be as if it were a minimum income security, and then part B could be — when these conditions are very different because of the factors I mentioned above and the losses are more difficult to compensate for — supplement the compensation, and there would be natural handlers who would probably be living and the municipality's business that would know the situation. As far as municipalities are concerned, it must be remembered that some compensation can also be used as compensation for how a municipality in a situation such as exceptional circumstances is allocated its purchases, whether, for example, food aid can be exported from a café, products purchased from a restaurant and thus facilitates this retention of turnover. However, such A and B parts could be justified, i.e. some kind of exclusion money in a formula and easily paid form — which, of course, can be channelled through municipalities — and then, as part B, such discretionary compensation. None of these parliamentary statements require full compensation, and when this section of the Emergency Act on accommodation and catering was missing, there are no replacements to the Emergency Act, which is, as it were, a discretionary supplementary arrangement which has been mentioned all along. On these need-to-repair requirements of the Emergency Act: I'm sure you'll have to write them on the list. This point of rent is something that has not been quoted, there are only the regulatory possibilities for housing rentals, but it is precisely in a situation like this that it would be very conceivable that the Emergency Act would provide by law for the possibility of, for example, halving the risk between the lessor and the lessee for a period of interruption of a particular activity, i.e. that it would be legally possible to carry out such a reasonable procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u87	We still have time to speak on this subject, then the Minister's closing statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u88	Mr President! First of all, we must thank all the restaurants who have closed the restaurants in advance. This has already been done in a large part of Finland. There they must have already sought their own solutions, and it is probably hard to figure out how to get past this period of exclusion, so to speak, out of the business perspective. In this situation, I think it should be taken into account immediately that this compensation and support is intended for those restaurants that are harmed by the situation. They will then be able to apply for these subsidies. Of course, we also have restaurants that have already been in poor oxygen, and this is probably an assessment of what the effect of this corona is. But there is a great need in the field for this awareness of what the instruments are, with which this matter will be compensated. Of course, we still have here in Parliament and ministries at the stage of how this funding comes through municipalities, through ely centres and also through Business Finland. I think that's where the action might already be on the best scale of action. As the previous speakers have pointed out, this is where restaurant entrepreneurs must take account of all the others. The State is trying to make its own, but it is the banks' and landlords' view that must be taken into account and that support should also be provided there. One important part of this is the fact that, at the moment, staff have to be laid off or changed to other tasks, that, when the time comes to leave the interest rate, we would still have that good staff available. Another view: when we have quite a lot of small businesses that are looking for new owners and there are also generational exchanges, all of them are frozen at this stage and especially in the service and restaurant sector. However, we should show that hope and vision for the coming period. I think that this regulation, which has now been built here, is a good one, and this is something that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will probably get a good decision to make. Two things: Here this territoriality is being introduced immediately, but in what way will it be dismantled after the corona is over? After all, this regulation allows us to look at the different parts of the country in a slightly different way. As far as compensation is concerned, I believe that there are different instruments here, and we are now giving the Government the opportunity to clarify the specific support to which it is directed. After all, it is very special that the Government and Parliament are closing down business activities. What will be the structure of compensation, then, especially for these small ones? Maybe even some silver linings can be thought of here. That's what this take away action is all about. After all, it has become a new business, and digitalisation has also given it the opportunity to order food. Probably this will be some new way of distributing food for these kitchens. Let us wish all companies good luck and success in getting new business out of it as well. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the telephones for financial advice from business associations, municipalities and ely centres are in place. Let's hope for that mental support for the entrepreneurs. There is economic pressure here, but then they are supported in different ways by different systems, that they can also look brightly at the future in terms of their own mental well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u89	And Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u90	Mr President! I thank you very much for this commendable and very cooperative debate. We share the same goal that we can as far as possible avoid unnecessary bankruptcies and ensure that this sector, which is very highly employable, can continue to get back on its feet and ensure work and livelihood and that entrepreneurs are able to survive. In many speeches, the way these existing financial instruments functioned and the concerns and problems were brought about. This work is now being done at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. Minister Lintilä is responsible for these financial issues of Business Finland. They consider how these instruments can be trimed to make them more flexible and serve their purpose. But, as has been said, these forms of aid, which are distributed through Business Finland and Ely Centres, can be used in limited quantities for rents and wage costs, among other things. There may have been some confusion. The website of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment contains information on what is available, how these are used and what are the terms and conditions. Then, of course, this area is affected by the way in which this sector can be targeted, particularly now. The question of compensation is also being examined, just as the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs called for, but I would now appeal to Finnish society and all the parties involved, particularly in this matter of landlords and rent-free for months or reduction of rents, to see together now, in a little longer perspective, as well as to see whether we can now just get the amount of money into the account that has been paid up to now, because these tenants will still be there for years to come, if we can get over this now. Representative In Koskinen's speech this kind of common consensus model arose, where we could agree on this together. It would now be very important for all parties in the business world, because that is where the expenses come from. After all, this joint agreement between the social partners has now brought relief through lay-off periods and others, which will now also make it easier not to get into bigger problems for these reasons. Then, of course, the sole proprietors will now receive this EUR 2000 support, which the municipality will then pass on. Unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs is also on the way. In the past, when we talked about sole entrepreneurs, there will now be this unemployment benefit scheme for all entrepreneurs, i.e. unemployment benefit for all entrepreneurs, without having to shut down business altogether. So it will also help not to create unnecessary bankruptcies through this. Then again: here the representatives pointed out that, as consumers, of course, all of us who now have the capacity to pay would now use these take-away services to get home ready for food. For we are now able to create an income stream for these companies, restaurants that are in trouble because of the fact that there are now [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u91	Thank you, Minister Haatainen. The debate and proceedings shall be suspended and the proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u92	We will now continue to discuss item 7 which has been suspended earlier in this sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u93	Mr President! On Saturday the Government decree will close the restaurants. The decision to close down restaurants is extremely regrettable but, as a measure, it is necessary to do everything possible to secure our society. However, this decision was taken without forgetting companies. It is obvious that the closure of restaurants will affect the lives of many, whether directly or indirectly, whether you are an entrepreneur or an employee. We all know this. When we talk about the restaurant industry, we talk about a huge number of people. The restaurant sector employs well over 50,000 people, and it employs a large number of temporary workers. This situation, which no one could anticipate, will result in unemployment and lay-offs. Many restaurant companies will face economic challenges. It is very good that the government has acted decisively in this situation too, without warning, in order to help companies survive. Earlier in the day, when this same issue was discussed before the interruption, Minister Haatainen made a very comprehensive speech on how this support will take place. Companies can apply for funding from different locations according to the size of the company. Funding can be provided by Finnvera, Business Finland, ely centres and municipalities, for example. Mr President! Throughout this crisis, the government's starting point has been that everyone in Finland is taken care of and everyone's livelihood is secured. These objectives have not changed, nor are they compromised. Surely it is true that, despite the efforts made, the means are not yet sufficient, and that is precisely why we are constantly working on this issue. One thing I have received a lot of messages from myself, as many others have said before, is concern about how the entrepreneur pays his rent. I very much hope that the tenants will take this concern into account and will do everything in their power to make life easier for the entrepreneur and to ensure that this company also works after the crisis. We are in a situation that no one can accurately assess. The corona virus has caused global paralysis, which takes time to recover. In this acute crisis, decisions must be taken and put into effect quickly. They'll be done according to the best information at the moment. None of us have a crystal ball in use, whether you are in the opposition or in the government, the minister or anyone else. In time, when this situation makes it easier, it is appropriate to sit down and assess how the corona epidemic was managed in the restaurant sector as well. Nutrition stores must be closed on Saturday, April 4, 1920. The restrictions are valid until the end of May, and these restrictions apply to the activities of restaurants other than the provision of take-away rations and food delivery services. For my part, I hope that, if possible, we will use these services from these companies. This decision to close restaurants is not easy, but it is necessary. I think it is very important that the situation leading to the closure of restaurants is closely monitored and, therefore, the duration of the restrictions is also reviewed and, if necessary, amended.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u94	Mr President! In my view, this legislation on the closure of restaurants is basically a question of two things. First of all, this situation that we have — social contacts must be restricted — and now, by means of legislation, we are restricting social contacts to those who do not have the sense to limit their contacts. In other words, the majority of people have complied with these restrictions on movement at the level of invitations and have avoided being in restaurants and other social contacts, but not everyone has done so, and now the matter can be dealt with for them as well. The second question here is that, when State intervention is closed down by law, the conditions are created for action which, in any case, can be taken and replaced by such closure. In other words, we are talking about the fixed costs of entrepreneurs, the burden of them jointly and severally. Of course, this must also be targeted at many other entrepreneurs in the service sector, but restaurants are working on this legislation, and this is now the case for the restaurant sector. No other attempt should be forgotten. There have been messages from the restaurant industry that there have been no customers, however. If we were to talk about weeks when companies were going down anyway, it was necessary to intervene because we cannot allow thousands or even tens of thousands of companies to go bankrupt. If that were to happen, there would be a huge amount of human suffering and lost jobs, but also a great deal of damage to the fact that we no longer really have entrepreneurs: bankrupt entrepreneurs would not start trying again, and with their example frightened, many others would no longer become entrepreneurs. We cannot afford this under any circumstances, and that is why immediate support is also needed on the sidelines of this legislation. Even in those respects, we do not have to reinvent the wheel as such. There are certainly good concrete examples of this in many European countries where the corona situation is worse than in Finland at least at the moment and where, on the other hand, the restaurant culture is more central. So let us follow the example of other countries where these things are already being done. I spoke earlier about the need for a government strategy to get out of this corona situation and crisis. This is a good concrete example of why such a strategy is needed. The question of these support measures for restaurants is to keep those businesses alive for months. They will not be able to operate there during those months, they will just be kept alive, that they will not fall, but there should be some future picture of what will happen after those months.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u95	Mr President! The purpose of this presentation is finally to catch the restaurants on the coming Saturday so that they will be caught and closed until the end of May. One cannot help criticising the way this has taken so long. Last Friday, this was dealt with by Parliament, and that was when this was obtained, and now it seems to take a week to bring this regulation into force. I'm glad it's not more serious than that. After all, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs dealt with this issue a long time ago, and I would also like to raise their concerns about the drastic restriction on freedom of business and the protection of property, but it is necessary in this exceptional situation. We had clear excesses in restaurants, nightclubs, karaoke bars, ski resorts after-ski, and, of course, this type of situation will require tougher measures. With regard to this compensation, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that, when it comes specifically to business freedom and the protection of property, special compensation is needed for these restaurants, and I think it is necessary to bring it quickly to Parliament. Perhaps it would have been good to bring this package side by side now, especially since this introduction has stretched so much. It would have been good for Parliament to have been able to take a position on its adequacy so that it adequately covers the damage that the restaurants are currently suffering. In this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there is also a regional and time-limit for these restaurants, and in the past, when the Minister was present, he said that the dismantling could take place at a later stage in the region. At this stage, it is certainly justified to keep the whole in this way, but I myself have already raised the issue of filling stations on small roads, for example, whose cafés and lunches could perhaps have been restricted outside at this stage. They often have postal services, which are important for security of supply also from the point of view of fuel distribution and heavy traffic, toilets and social spaces. Unfortunately, these gas stations will not survive until the end of May with fuel sales or take-away coffee alone, and then it would be worth considering whether this regional and temporal dismantling could be done in a controlled way, for example, for this type of road service stations and the cafés they are now. True, the population never exceeds that ten at the same time, but they acted very quickly. When our morning parliaments of men and women are left out of there, you could certainly think that they would be in use. It must also be borne in mind that this proposal has severe indirect effects. This affects the transport sector, the cleaning sector, tourism, but also the entertainment sector. Music bands and artists are in a very difficult situation with this corona. I myself have looked into the situation of artists and musicians and bands, and if this corona crisis goes so far as to prevent Midsummer festivals in Finland, for example, this summer, we will talk about the loss of some EUR 25 million in this sector. They do not now seem to be receiving any of these previous subsidies — not from Business Finland, not from Ely and others — and then perhaps this support for restaurants would be worth looking at this special support package for the entertainment industry and artists. The refund of VAT has been raised several times in discussions by the Coalition Party, and we have also proposed our own corporate interest subsidy based, for example, on a sales margin of between 6 and 12 months. I was pleased when Mr Salmonikoski raised the issue of halving rents. If the State were to genuinely meet half of these rent costs now, it would already be a big help for many, although I personally consider it almost necessary that the rent subsidy should cover a larger proportion of the rent than that half. But this restaurant block is necessary and inevitable in this serious situation. However, it will be seen as an increase in unemployment in this country and, if that aid package is not available for the restaurant industry in the next few weeks, unfortunately also in bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u96	Mr President! Today, we are once again debating these restrictions, and now we are talking about these restrictions on nutritional movements, and I absolutely agree that this restriction should also be made. There have been tremendously good speeches here, and I have listened to them in my office. I am referring, for example, to Mrs Salmon's speech, to the fact that these impact assessments — and I myself have spoken about them — certainly should be carried out now, and of course they will be carried out, but when such impact assessments by officials do not come here, and then when we make these decisions here at a rather rapid pace, the impact assessment will not be carried out entirely. Now that we can get these things out of hand and then when we have those implementing regulations here and when we get them here, I think we should concentrate on these impact assessments. This hall contains a great deal of expertise from different sectors, and this corona virus and the epidemic as a whole apply to all sectors. This is not just a health issue, which is, of course, the most important thing: the life of a person is the most important thing, and it is precisely that no one's health is damaged, that there is no side effect, that is what we are trying to do. However, now that this is causing other adverse effects in any case, we should also focus on assessing these effects. Another important theme that I have already mentioned at the time is that we should have instructions in order, i.e. uniform instructions, so that the doors there have uniform instructions, there are uniform instructions at local level and there are uniform instructions at national level by different ministries. Today, the coordination group has been set up and set up. It is excellent. I hope that the coordination group will then in particular coordinate this cooperation between the various sectors. That is absolutely necessary. What is also important is that every ministry that is now subject to any restriction should be instructed. Regrettably, there is quite a lot of message coming from that field that there are instructions from doors, municipalities, depending on who is responsible for organising, depending on what is the law, what is the norm. After all, when some go according to the Act on Contagious Diseases, some go according to the Act on Preparedness and some go according to the Health Care Act, there are now some conflicting instructions. That is why it is important that there is someone who is holding onto this and then giving the commands, that we now do the instructions and think together. I understand it very well that when things happen like this at a quick pace, you have to have a little hand-to-mouth to live on, but now I pay attention to two things: impact assessment and uniform instructions. The impact assessment is precisely from the point of view of these side effects, since it will then have an impact on how long these restrictions will be maintained. Of course, the important thing is that these messages go to ministers. I understand very well that, in a situation like this, ministers cannot be here. Of course, I would like it, as the Council of Presidents has hoped, to be heard here by the ministers, but I am sure that these minutes will be available. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u97	Mr President! Temporary restrictions on the opening hours of restaurants are all to be welcomed, provided that they are provided with support, even though they are now in practice temporarily out of operation. However, the restaurant is so close to each other that it is not possible to avoid droplet infestations, so something must be done. While this restriction is to be welcomed, the economy must still be taken into account. Workers, entrepreneurs — where do they now make a living? The state must support entrepreneurs and workers by providing direct support. I'm not sure I understand the fact that everyone in turn insists on dropping rents. It must also be remembered, however, that many landlords are also entrepreneurs. The entrepreneur earns a living from the real estate he owns. Not everyone's got all the crazy bulldozers in the account to be able to give you a zero-euro rent. That is why I am in favour of direct support for entrepreneurs, not loans. Mr President! It is frustrating that companies are offered a loan that is not their fault at all. Direct aid would be provided to companies whose financial statements are day-to-day ahead of this interest rate crisis to the extent that the company remains in the so-called business. On the surface during this crisis, and when the weekday comes, hopefully as soon as possible, there will be a company ready to continue to try and work. There is no point in bringing these companies into bankruptcy and workers out of work. As Mr Heinonen has just mentioned, the aid package must come as soon as possible. Then I would like to finish by saying that there are many representatives, or a few, who have spoken today about the responsibility of the store, handmades, etc.: ladies and gentlemen, I dare to say that every store in Finland would offer our customers handcuffs, rubber gloves and so on, if they were only available, but unfortunately they are not available to everyone at the moment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u98	Mr President! Restaurants really must be helped, and when you hear from restaurants what help can be given, which may not always pay, you should at the moment be helping to sell out, for example, brewery products and all sorts of other things. In addition to getting to the surface at this point, however, the time will come when some attempt is being made to save what can be saved, and when customers return to restaurants, for example, the share of alcohol tax for restaurants would be an extremely good handout in letting their own sales grow. I myself am working on an action initiative aimed mainly at the Minister of Corporate Governance. So through the wholesalers, they'd be obliged to... or not necessarily so, but a recommendation would have been given to Alko that Alko would cash back the liquor stores that are currently in the restaurants, because there are quite a few people there who have such a moment that the money they have in the warehouses will not even be properly used. In general, it would be extremely important for the tourism and restaurant sector now and in the future to mobilise all kinds of investments, i.e. all-looking construction projects, fairway projects, as we have in south-east Finland, for example, the extension of the closures of highway 15 and the Saimaa Canal, the making of the Luumäki-Imatra twin track. In any case, what needs to be done in the coming years would now be a good thing to put in transport very quickly, because it would also help the tourism industry to have some sort of filling capacity in hotels. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u99	Mr President! The Corona virus epidemic is now threatening Finnish businesses and jobs very extensively and very strongly. The Finnish industry suffers from this epidemic — one can say that if not every industry is now, very widely — and this restaurant industry, which is now under discussion, is of course not the only one that suffers from it and has lost its customers. But I would like to point out that it is quite different to suffer from this epidemic, for which no one in itself can do anything and can not apply for the perpetrators very easily, and the fact that there is a state law and, in this case, a detailed regulation that closes the restaurants. That is why it is particularly noteworthy that, when the Constitutional Committee dealt with this law on which this regulation is now being adopted, it made a very strong point there at the end of the opinion that it is necessary to compensate fairly for the losses that this law will cause to the restaurant industry when the restaurants are closed. It may be said that I was delighted to hear Mr Haatainen mention here earlier this afternoon that there is a package of support for the restaurant sector, specifically for this sector, which is now facing an exceptional situation when restaurants are closed down by law. In this context, it has also been pointed out many times that, if the state now closes down the restaurants by law or regulation, it would be a relief for many restaurants to receive a suspension insurance policy and thus compensation from insurance companies, but unfortunately it has to be found that, on the basis of the studies that I myself have received not only from Finnish Entrepreneurs but also from the insurance industry, there is a very small proportion, if any, of them, of the kind of insurance that would compensate for the situation in which all restaurants are closed in this way. There are insurances that will, unfortunately, replace a situation in which there is a bacterium in a single restaurant, which means that the health authorities are forced to close this restaurant, but when the whole industry is closed, it seems that there is hardly any such insurance. They therefore do not help in this situation, and the State must therefore seek to compensate for the reasonable losses. Secondly, I would like to point out that the forms of support now decided and prepared by the government, which are general, independent of the industry — Business Finland’s support, the support provided by the Ely Centre to smaller companies or sole entrepreneurs from there through the municipality, which is now in preparation — may not be very suitable for this restaurant industry. This, in fact, also underlines the need for this sector to now require particular attention. The third point I would like to raise is that Minister Haatainen here also made an excellent point to me that, when we talk about such a drastic restriction on the freedom to conduct a business and, consequently, the protection of property, the government is prepared to monitor the situation all the time and, although this is until the end of May, it is possible to open up restaurants or to open restaurants earlier, if this is possible in view of the spread of this epidemic. This opening-up can also take place gradually geographically in a way that opens up a certain area a little earlier than in other regions, and I think that is also a very good thing. This is fatal, you can say, damaging to many companies, and even if the aim is that no healthy Finnish company would go bankrupt during this crisis, I think it may have to say that we may not be able to find tools on the state side to prevent all bankruptcies. They are likely to happen — unfortunately, but this will probably happen. Of course, some of them are companies that have not been on a sound footing even before the corona crisis, but then there are companies which, as a result, are going into a crisis where these aid packages, which the state is able to create in this case, are not going to be enough. Then it is important to look to the future and to learn from the past, so that we do not make the same mistake as we did in the recession of the 1990s, when we had tens of thousands of entrepreneurs who were left behind in a certain form of debt imprisonment, and their skills and contributions to society were not used as a result. In this situation, although we are in the middle of a crisis, I think we should start thinking that once we get over this, we should also immediately look at our bankruptcy and insolvency legislation so that we can enable those who, despite the possible aid and support packages, have gone bankrupt, a fresh start, a new start, a new start for those entrepreneurs, so that they can — I would say — get better and faster than the means available under the current legislation. In particular, the companies which are not in any way responsible for this crisis — no attempt — and who have not been able to prepare themselves for this, have perhaps just begun their activities, taken serious risks, have been exposed to personal responsibilities. They must be able to start again, and the state must be careful not to leave such entrepreneurs alone — not alone mentally, but not materially, economically.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u100	Mr President! I have already raised examples here of how we in the assembly would like to support the entrepreneurs of nutritionists and those thousands and thousands of workers, so I will not go there. But I would like to point out that the government has strongly emphasised the responsibility of landlords, for example, not to collect rents from entrepreneurs in nutrition stores. In Finland, in particular, municipalities have very different positions regarding the rentals of properties they own. It's been reported in the papers today. In Finland, we have municipalities that do not collect rent from the nutritionists in the next few months at all. These are fine examples and fine stories, but now we should quickly get answers to the brave communities that are so responsible in this situation. The government demands responsibility from the municipalities on many different issues, but there is no concrete backrest. If I am thinking of my own town, Kouvola, we have been on the road for several years now, where there is no good or good decision ahead, but there is constant sadness and regret to be shared, and a crisis of this kind, which will cause even more trouble for the citizens, will require very sharp action from the government so that we can have that little glimpse of our own activities. In this context, I would also like to ask a little question about the government's policy on the future of gyms and indoor playgrounds. When we close nutrition stores based on people being in close contact, gyms and indoor playgrounds are also completely under this same criterion. I am not saying that this should be the case right now, but I also do not appreciate the fact that these entrepreneurs are being kept in a so-called loose hang when they do not know what will happen and what the future of their business will be tomorrow. Quick decisions, clear communication and government discharge to the level that entrepreneurs feel and feel appreciated for what they do. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u101	Mr President! The effects of the interest-rate crisis have hit nutritionists and many other companies. As a result of cancelled orders and transactions and even the postponement of agreed deliveries, many companies are in distress. That is why I have today handed over to Minister Kulmun a letter signed by Heidi Rämö, Mayor of Lempäälä, and Ismo Paananen, President of the Entrepreneurs of Lempäälä. The main content of the application is that we propose VAT refunds at the beginning of 2020 and that employers' contributions are not collected for the time being. In addition, Lempäälä Municipality has actively started supporting tenants operating in the municipality's premises by reducing rents by 50 per cent for the next three months. We also buy food bags from entrepreneurs, which we distribute to the residents of the municipality, mainly to families. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u102	Mr President! The diversification of the Finnish restaurant industry and restaurant provision has been a great pleasure to be able to follow in recent years. Now this fine development and, at the same time, the development that is important for our economy is in grave danger. Many people’s lives are in danger of disappearing into thin air. The closure of restaurants has been discussed several times in this Chamber over the last few weeks and, as has already been heard today, the closure order is not a normal business risk, but a state-imposed business ban, and therefore the State must also compensate entrepreneurs for the losses caused by the closure. Direct financial, right support is needed, as several speakers have already called for today. As Mr Heinonen has already mentioned, the Assembly has proposed a so-called interest rate subsidy, which could be based on the sales margin of the previous six to twelve months. The Alcohol Act should also be amended as a matter of urgency, so that the right to exit from 16 % alcohol products would automatically be subject to notification by all operators with either a manufacturing or a liquor licence and the same right of exit should also be extended to the online trade. Minister Hatainen here earlier today told us that new support measures for restaurants are being considered all the time, but it was still unclear when exactly the government would inform the restaurants of separate support and because it would bring proposals to the House. In this context, it would certainly have been very good, but hopefully soon. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u103	Mr President! The Korona virus is devastating in the Finnish business world, especially in the restaurant sector — hardly anyone can deny this anymore. Here in Parliament we are currently dealing with the closing of restaurants by law, and it will come into force on Saturday, 4.4.2020. Remember that date, too, among all these other dates. Countless restaurants have to lay off their staff, even lay off, and everywhere efforts are being made to reduce current costs to the minimum possible, so that companies do not go bankrupt. One of the most significant current expenses for companies is rents. Restaurants, for example, now have to pay thousands of euros a month, even though there is no income. Business cashiers can't handle that. Many landlords have understood the situation, have been able to see a bigger picture of the situation and have significantly come against their tenants, for example by reducing or even leaving rentals unrecoverable, but there are still too many cases where this big picture and the gravity of the situation have not been identified. It is true that there are landlords who do not have such a chance, but there are many who do. Of course, one might imagine that it would be more favorable for the lessee to keep the company that has been renting for years and to continue after the restrictions. In restaurant activities, this is even very possible for many, if only there was something to go on with. There is a standard customer base, and it could quickly get back on track. Another option is to stare only at short-term claims, let the company go down, and then start looking for a new tenant. As the economic situation in this country and internationally deteriorates after the interest rate, finding new tenants may be a challenging task. Maintaining a tenant company is an advantage for both the lessee and the lessor, and at the same time it is an advantage for many others. Society as a recipient of tax revenue is not the least of the benefits here. Mr President! The moderation of company rents is a matter of social responsibility. We are now facing a huge challenge, and everyone needs to understand their own potential in responding to it. Keeping businesses alive is a decisive step in this fight. At this point I would like to direct my words to the landlords: This is your chance to contribute to the rescue of this country. Don't miss that opportunity. When you look back some time later, do you want to see yourself as a hero who took part in the rescue work or as a bystander who let the damage happen? We're all in this boat together. We decide together whether it stays on the surface or goes to the bottom. Everyone knows which option is better. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u104	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. Here the Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Minister Henrikson, I'm sorry you've had to wait. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u105	Mr President, värderade talman! The spread of the corona virus in prisons may jeopardise the proper and safe enforcement of prison sentences. The situation has already been prepared by various practical measures at the Criminal Sanctions Agency, including limiting unnecessary movement between the prison and the rest of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u106	Mr President! The purpose of this government bill is to prevent the spread of the corona virus in prisons in a proactive manner, thereby safeguarding the functioning of prisons and protecting the health of prisoners and prison staff. The measures mentioned in the proposal concerning the temporary limitation of the enforcement of the fine and of the unconditional imprisonment sentence are essential in the preparation and prevention of the spread of the virus. The bill repeals a decree previously issued by the Government, which does not impose a period of enrollment in prison by 19 June 2020 for conversion sentences and imprisonment of up to six months. However, this means of anticipation has not proved sufficient in terms of health protection, which is why the proposal before us can better prepare for the situation in a preventive way. It is noteworthy that the temporary limitation of penalties applies only to those persons who are awaiting the execution of their sentences in freedom. This proposal does not, therefore, release those who sit in prison, nor does it apply to those who have been imprisoned on the basis of the law on detention or the law on coercive measures. The greatest security threats are now beyond those facing convictions. Mr President! I would also like to say that if, under exceptional circumstances, it seems unusual to restrict fundamental rights, it is common practice to restrict rights in prisons. The justification for restricting rights includes necessity and proportionality, as is well known in this Chamber. Even a prison sentence does not remove certain fundamental rights that belong to every human being. Every person has undivided rights to the necessary health care and safety, whatever the place. These rights must also be exercised in prison conditions. Those sentenced to prison are already in a disadvantaged position. Many of them have untreated underlying diseases, homelessness, and financial difficulties. They are also at a higher risk of developing coronavirus due to their lower health status than average. Indeed, delaying the execution of punishments may be a paralyzing counterattack on a person in prison who would have a roof over his head and walls to protect. People who have to wait for the beginning of their imprisonment should be offered temporary housing as a matter of priority for the waiting period. The Housing First principle and other social safety nets should not disappear, even if we are living in an exceptional situation. The range of instruments to help the weaker in the midst of the crisis is constantly being expanded. For example, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has today opened a state aid application for the organisation of food aid activities for those in particular need. In addition, the Social and Health Care Centre has opened an additional search for coronavirus-related assistance that can be targeted at helping the daily lives of people at risk of life and social exclusion and increasing their psychosocial support. These measures are necessary so that no one falls on nothing in the middle of a pandemic and fundamental rights are as widespread as possible in exceptional circumstances. No one wants the Finnish prison activity to be completely paralysed by the epidemic caused by the corona virus. Therefore, delays in the enforcement of penalties are justified in the event of exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u107	Mr President! The show is important. It provides a great deal of security, especially for those who work in prisons, and in that sense it is very much to be welcomed. Of course, a small skeptic is concerned about how people behave in their spare time, but trust that a person is reasonable in such an emergency. In fact, there are two questions which I would like to put to the Minister. What will be done when a possible state of emergency runs out and may even occur in traffic? The second question is: how does this model now compare with other European countries, what has been done there? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u108	Mr President! The proposal before us is an interesting one, since it provides for a temporary limitation of the execution of the prison sentences imposed. In the welfare state, of course, we must take care of everyone's health, and now we are to be prepared not to get too crowded in prisons or to spread the epidemic more among officials and customers who carry out their work. The proposal therefore applies on a temporary basis to the conversion of the fine and to the imprisonments of up to six months, which will be registered on their own. That is a well-founded restriction, since the murderer is in the castle even during the plague. The Minister, in his presentation, did raise these issues. However, when the epidemic subsides, the same thought comes to mind as Mrs Kauto put it there: will prisons then become congested after a few months, how important will it be when the general situation at some point makes things easier? Mr President! In any case, it is important that the Finnish judiciary — including prisons — be able to carry out its task. It may be that, in the face of the crisis, the mood of some citizens may become tense and the mind may lead to the path of crime. We must ensure that our authorities operate under all circumstances. But, as has been said, I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u109	Mr President! It is understandable that this corona crisis also causes a nightmare in the direction of the prison institution, but it is still somewhat questionable, in principle, that such pressure is now being brought to an end by starting to compromise the credibility of the rule of law by limiting the execution of the sentence even during such an exceptional period. If I understood correctly, this is a question of the fact that it was already possible to postpone the execution of a conversion or a maximum of six months’ imprisonment, but now this right is being extended up to two years’ imprisonment. We all know that, in order to receive a two-year sentence of unconditional imprisonment, a number of criminal acts must already be committed, particularly when it comes to a first-time offender. I therefore call for a good report in committee before my own position on this proposal that this amendment does not temporarily jeopardise the legal security and security of law-abiding citizens by allowing, in the worst case scenario, dangerous sexual and violent offenders to be freed as a result of this change.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u110	Mr President! I would also like to thank the government for this proposal because you are not, however, completely withdrawing the conversion of the fine. That fear, too, under this government would have been entirely possible. However, I welcome the fact that you have only decided to postpone implementation. From the point of view of the ability of prisons to function in this situation, I consider it quite justified. If I understood correctly, this could reduce the number of prisoners, perhaps from 300 to 400, and it is important that these contacts can also be reduced in prisons. Other contacts in prisons are likely to be as limited as possible. Some of the prison guards — what their current title or professional title is, but the traditional prison guard — have also become concerned about the risks of infection, and I hope that on this side too the safety equipment and respiratory protection equipment and others will be sufficient in those situations, for example, when faced with new persons when entering prison. In this proposal, however, the dates are much further away from this day than in the other government proposals, and I myself wondered whether this is prelude to other decisions. We are talking about July and June, and yet now all other measures have been defined as considerably shorter durations. I hope, however, that by the summer the situation will be so much easier in general. And then, as a final statement: It is stated here that the penalties must be enforced as soon as possible after the end of the exceptional circumstances, and this is important that every offender receives punishment for his crime in the future. Finally, I would like to thank this government for keeping the fine conversion penalty in place. It is an important part of our penal order and an important factor for traders and traders, for example, that professional criminals and shoplifters are also held responsible for their actions — if not now during the epidemic of this corona virus, after all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u111	Mr President! Indeed, this government proposal, as the Minister said, is about situations where, in practice, a regulation is in force, that there is a conversion penalty for a fine or, at most, an unconditional prison sentence of six months, it would now rise to the point that, in practice, two years would be the limit, because, according to the law on coercive measures, the courts will immediately be incarcerated for imprisonment of at least two years. Similarly, the law on coercive measures also feels the possibility of a shorter prison sentence being imposed for imprisonment if, for example, the person’s crime continues or other conditions are at hand. Mr Mäkelä hoped that in committee we would make a good report on security and the rule of law. We have had this before today, and we will, of course, try to bring this as soon as possible. But because of all this haste and because of what has been, we are very much dependent on the information that all of us in this situation have the opportunity to provide. Of course, we will try to do the best we can. I really would have liked to talk about the fact that one of the alternatives to this kind would be that we would have a slightly wider prison network and we would have more guarding capacity, because then it would be more loose in this kind of situation. We have little like this magnitude of economics currently going on in everything that has big units and big courts and big prisons. Here really sees the fact that when you become this kind of pandemic type, it would be good if you had even smaller units to which you could, for example, transfer such persons who are ill, and then others could better move there together. These are the things of the future that it is good to think about then in the drafting of the law. I would have liked to ask the Minister a few questions: Does the Minister have any information on the situation as a result of the corona epidemic that when we have foreign prisoners sitting here, has there now been more of those who have been transferred to their countries of origin, or has this made any difference to the punishment and sitting here in Finland? Then I would have asked: has the Ministry's toolbox had such things, what did I read from that world just in the media, that Poland and Iran will then let prisoners out of prison in a similar situation? However, I think that this path chosen by the government is better than that of letting people out prematurely. Indeed, in the media, I found Poland and Iran. As a second question, I would have asked the Court of Justice about teleworking opportunities, which is linked to this corona. I also put a written question to you, but I am sure you have not had time to reply when the deadline has not passed. I asked a few questions about the fact that public opinion has also been concerned about it. For example, Tuija Turpeinen, the Laman of the District Court of North Karelia, said that the District Court of North Karelia has cancelled all its sessions until Easter and that it is precisely the cause of major problems in remote connections. So is there any relief, and what is the situation? This is going to be quite a bottleneck then, if the sittings are cancelled. I do not know what the effect of this cancellation of sittings will then be on this motion whether there will be so many sentences out of it, which in itself could also be reduced. But it is now quite worrying if the recommendation is that we should sit at a distance and remote connections are not working. This is an important issue. Indeed, on these two points, distance and foreign prisoners, I would like an answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u112	Mr President! Today, there are 3,000 prisoners in Finnish prisons, and the threat that the corona virus will also spread to prisons with new prisoners or staff is a real threat. Today, when we have spoken here in the Chamber about the various restrictions and measures that are being taken in every place, the prisons cannot be outside these activities either. When the corona virus spreads into prisons, it would pose a real risk to the functioning of the prisons as a whole and to the execution of sentences, but above all to the prisoners and the staff working in prison. Even now, there have been cancellations in prisons of appointments and prison leave permits. As elsewhere, there has also been a lot of transition to telephone and Skype communication in prisons. The activities of open prisons have become more closed and restricted in exceptional circumstances, which means that the Criminal Sanctions Agency has already taken a number of measures in view of this situation. It is possible to prepare for the spread of the Korona virus in prisons, in particular by preventing the filling of prisons and the transfer of prisoners from one unit to another and, of course, by limiting the number of people entering prisons. The previous decree of the Ministry of Justice on the suspension of the enforcement of short prison sentences and of the fine until 19.6 was a step in the right direction. This regulation concerned penalties of less than six months. This regulation alone would have reduced the number of prisoners from 100 to 200. Now the government’s proposal is intended to limit the admission of sentenced persons who report to prison and those who are sentenced to a fine for conversion to prison on a temporary basis. This would cause the number of prisoners to fall by between 300 and 400 prisoners. This government proposal improves the ability of prisons to prepare for a worsening situation. If the use of prison departments has to be restricted or the number of staff reduced, the operation will be secured. This proposal is an important advance to safeguard the conduct of prisons under this exceptional circumstances. That is where the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr Meri, raised a good point: when we talk about smaller units, perhaps even this exceptional circumstance confirms that it is not necessarily appropriate to talk here about the fact that smaller units and other units in prisons are very sensitive to closure. There has also been such talk, and perhaps, now that we are in this sort of emergency, it is appropriate to consider this very carefully in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u113	Mr President! After all, the simple content of the proposal is to combat the progression of the corona in prisons. I think that, as has been said, it is quite impossible for this virus not to circulate in society, but this is intended to avoid it being uncontrolled. Above all, however, prisons are fundamental functions of society and we must be able to ensure that the prison system continues to function. With joy I have listened here to Mr Sea and others' views on the merits of the dislocation of the prison network, and I say that this corona virus has already shown us how important it is in society that we think that even the small one is beautiful. In a sense, this dislocation may be our strength in Finland, not our weakness, as has often been thought. However, it has now been thought that we are now in an exceptional state of society, and yet people are on guard and are constantly following all the headlines that are currently appearing in the press. Although I now know that the proposal will not affect the security of society, and it is precisely those who are waiting for freedom to go to prison, I personally think it is very important to provide information. Of course I know that we are going through this matter very carefully in the Legal Committee, and I know that we all want to know what kind of prisoners, people are currently waiting to go to prison. Although, of course, the court has held that they can wait in freedom, yet at least I want to know very carefully what type of crimes they are convicted of. However, when the starting point is that this will not affect the security of society, when in any case they are already waiting for freedom, I personally consider it extremely important to inform it afterwards. I would like to throw a question in the Minister's direction as long as we go through this process and if the government's proposal like this goes through, what is the idea and how is it then communicated, so that we don't see in the Evening newspaper, in the Evening Sanomat then such headlines that would even raise concerns in people, if that's not the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u114	Irade the Talman! Säkerheten i fängelserna måste tryggas också under coronaepidemi. Det är därför viktigt att skrida till åtgärder för att säkerstalla att viruset inte sprids i fängelserna. Att verkställandet av vis domar nu senareläggs är en bra handlingsväg för att it till att antlete fångar inte stiger för högt med hensyn till capaciteten i fängelser och för att minimera effekten av viruses. Det är svårt att hållräckliga säkerhetsavstånd i fängelserna, så om en fånge symtas är det latt att viruset sprids övriga fångar och bland personalen. Fångarnas älstollstånd är oftast svagare än genomsnittsbefolkningens och därför måste vi undvika en okontrollerad spridning av viruses.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u115	Mr President! The Government proposes to postpone the introduction of conversion and unconditional imprisonment sentences until 31 July 2020. This proposal must be supported. The proposed restriction would apply to those who themselves report to prison, those who have been sentenced to a conversion penalty or unconditional imprisonment, i.e. those who are already awaiting the execution of the sentence in freedom. In addition, there would be a restriction on the arrest of convicted persons for the initiation of enforcement. However, the law would not apply to imprisonment under the court’s law on coercive measures or to persons already in prison under the law on detention. Moreover, enforcement would not be postponed if the sentenced person were already in prison. It is no surprise to any of us that prison filling rates are currently high, and this is a known risk for the spread of the corona virus epidemic. The purpose of this government proposal is to ensure the safe enforcement of penalties, as well as the ability of prisons to function during an epidemic. I think it is very important to limit the admission of new prisoners to prison so that the effects of the corona virus epidemic can also be minimised in prison facilities. It is estimated that this government proposal will temporarily reduce the number of prisoners per day by between 300 and 400. This government proposal is relevant in order to enable the Criminal Sanctions Agency to provide proper care for prisoners even during this epidemic. It is also clear that this too must be done in a forward-looking way, as the government is doing here — it is pointless to act when the situation has already come out of hand. Mr President! During this abnormal situation, the health of prisoners must also be taken care of by persons working in prison facilities. Appropriate instructions to prevent infections should be provided at each workplace. It is important that the necessary protective equipment is also available. It should be borne in mind that monitoring the implementation of the Government's proposal is important and, if necessary, the deadline should also be reviewed and the duration adjusted. However, all penalties must be enforced as soon as possible, as long as the exceptional circumstances end. If there is concern that the execution of the sentence will lapse, then it is pointless to worry: the law contains provisions on the condition that the enforcement of penalties does not lapse as a result of the transfer. This government proposal was before us today at the preliminary hearing of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and the committee will look into this matter very carefully and quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u116	Mr President! All in all, this has been a very surprising period, especially for this first time. As a policeman, for example, I could never have imagined that in this Chamber I would say that the people who belong in prison should not be put there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u119	Mr President! Indeed, it is easy to support this government proposal, since, at the end of the game, these are fine prisoners and small criminals, and that is what one might say, given that, in particular, the fine prisoners were not put in stone a short time ago at all, which means that the change in the situation a few years ago is virtually non-existent. I must say here to a couple of members of the Assembly that they are concerned about congestion, as far as it is concerned, that we must remember, however, that the maximum sitting time for fine prisoners is 40 days. However, when it can be shared quite a bit after these corona virus cases, I would say that it is not a terrible problem now, because they are not all forced on the day when the borders of Uusimaa are opened, they will be forced into it at once. However, at the end of the game, in these types of fine prison cases and in the case of petty criminals, I can easily understand even the request for a brief postponement, if there are valid reasons for this, which is probably not going to change a great deal. Of course, it's a bit crowded, or more goes into the rock, so to speak, then maybe in the fall than it would have been in the past. These are certainly not the kind of prisoners that need to be worried about anyway. If they now continue to do so, they may continue to do so even after 40 days of sitting down. That doesn't really change that situation in any way in that field. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u120	Mr President! Indeed, the government's proposal is a temporary restriction, and it is necessary in this situation. As a representative S.H.I.E.L.D. brought up, and the prison is a closed facility, and we have had to restrict other, not similar, but closed institutions, service homes for the elderly, and all others, where our possible invisible enemy would spread as a virus infection, so that the ability to function there in various prisons, as well as in care facilities, would be paralysed, both for the people there and then for the staff. It is true that there was a gap of up to about ten years between the conversion of the fine. After all, at the end of the last period this fine was re-imposed. And all those who are going to do that fine conversion to prison are waiting for it even now in freedom. This temporary limitation would then simply postpone the prison sentence. Last season I was a member of the Legal Committee and I visited several prisons, I must say that I visited several prisons in Finland, including Pelso and Riihimäki, but also in Romania and several other countries. Of course, in all countries prisons are also different, and we have different sizes and different operational priorities. There's practically only one prison for women in prison. But I am raising the same concerns as the representative. S.H.I.E.L.D. also pointed out that it is important to limit these transfers between prisons now, so that they would not bring this risk here on the prison side. A government proposal is necessary and, in this situation, the only one that is right. Thank you, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u121	Mr President! During one parliamentary term I was also a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and I remember how a lot of discussions were then held on the conversion of the fine and raised, among other things, these sausage pack thieves: what are they doing to such petty shoplifters when they feel that they are not biting — and indeed this is also the case with the fine prisoners. This proposal proposes to introduce a law on the temporary limitation of the enforcement of the conversion penalty and the unconditional imprisonment of the fine. Under the proposed law, no action would be taken to commence the enforcement of the conversion or unconditional imprisonment of a fine and would not be subject to new reporting periods until 31 July 2020. This government proposal has been brought in as a matter of urgency and, of course, this proposal does not include any comments from the rapporteurs, but it has been prepared together with the authorities. It is easy to agree with what has been said here about the scale and extent of this epidemic of corona virus in Finland. Who would have thought that it would also affect prison care, prisoners. This proposal is justified. Measures have also been taken in all European countries to prepare for the corona virus epidemic in prisons, and this government proposal also states this. It's all right. Let's take a look around the world. It is very important that we prevent the spread of the virus in prisons by all means possible. I would like to ask you, Minister: how are the prison guards and the staff now in the prison facilities, who are working there, as well as the police in general, who are now investigating the arrivals and carrying out various checks at the borders, for example, at the Uusimaa border? That message has come from truck drivers — they are always very active in contact with us and have told us — that there may not be any protective equipment for these inspectors. In what way will it be improved that police officers, border guards, too, are able to protect themselves and protect them from their own health? This is a very good bill, and I hope that, despite the fact that it sounds like a criminal is not being put in prison, it does not, however, give citizens a sense of insecurity. Safety is a feeling that is very important to maintain at the moment, because certainly the corona virus epidemic will also cause criminals to travel — we have received messages from them too. In that sense, people should be protected, especially the elderly, from all forms of abuse. Is there perhaps something that the Minister can then say about what is being done in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u122	There are now two speeches here and about six minutes until this debate is adjourned and three minutes for the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u123	Mr President! As Mr Kilpi mentioned, even as a police officer, I would not have believed that this day would come, that the sentenced person would not have to go to prison for that sentence, but I am also a police officer and chief confidence officer, and the prison officials of our Union. I very much understand the concern of prison officials at the moment that the corona would spread to prisons. I would now like to point out the value of such a bold idea for the Minister to consider: Could these fine-shifters, for example, be able to execute their sentences over the coming summer on farms, where there will be a major shortage of these summer workers? Would it be possible, on a calculation basis, to change this future judgment as if it were a duty to work on a farm?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u124	Mr President! I had to refrain from taking the floor. When two police officers said that the police couldn't believe this, I, as the son of the police, couldn't have believed that I'm here with this kind of speech, but I'm doing it now. In this regard, I would like to stress the fact that, if there are many foreign prisoners in Finnish prisons, why can't they be sent to their country of origin for a sentence? And then another thing: does it not just happen that the prisoners can be released in advance before the sentence ends? But I would like to talk to you about one thing, namely the trade workers, when it has been mentioned many times in this Chamber that there is concern about the workers in the trade for this corona security. I have been working here in Parliament for almost a year, and I have never heard one talk about the insecurity that these sellers face every day around Finland. There are petty thefts, thefts, threats, even robberies. So these are now the famous ones — I would like to stress that this is my own opinion — the petty offenders who — every single day this happens, every day around Finland in stores — take the average of 20 euros from a store for their own use. And when they are caught up with it, they will get that judgment, so it may even be that there will be no judgment at all. That is what I would just like to emphasise here that it may be a question of fine prisoners, but it is important to the trade that they receive some punishment for that. Many so-called The person who has been fined may not be convicted at all. However, I would like to emphasise that Finland is the rule of law and I want it to continue to be so. That's all. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u125	Mr President! I would like to thank you all for a very good debate. It is great to see that this proposal received broad support from the opposition as well as from the ranks of the government. I'm trying to respond quickly. A lot of good questions have been asked here. In August, the implementation of penalties will be re-introduced step by step, i.e. this will now move to August, and then it will be done in such a way as to avoid congestion, but everything will be implemented. The idea here is that no one is going to get past that prison, but we are going to take this procedure so that the corona does not spread in prisons. This is also happening until the end of July because the interest rate is still here in Finland in July. These other restrictive measures are, of course, aimed at getting the infection curve going so that this situation is managed in this country and that we have enough hospital capacity, but, as far as prisons are concerned, we have to look at this overall situation. It is expected that we will still have this disease in the summer, but hopefully less than at present. Similar measures have been taken in other European countries to what we are now proposing. It is also the case that the situation in prisons must be safeguarded, that the situation of prison workers must be safeguarded. Here we have Risella's pandemic plan, and prison workers, prison officials have also been instructed in the manner in which protective equipment is used and so on. It is clear that more equipment is also needed for our prisons. The question was also raised about the distance between courts. I do not now have the same information, but I would say that we now have different problems in this country and that is one of the problems that need to be solved. I am sure that the Court of Justice will do everything in its power to resolve it. When it comes to these convictions, I would like to point out that this motion concerns those who are now convicted, for which the Court has held that there is no reason for the sentenced person to be imprisoned immediately, and so it is not a question of persons who have reason to fear that they will continue criminal activity while awaiting judgment — this is also an important message for the citizens. Most of this is about drunken driving and property offences, but it is a good thing that the Committee on Legal Affairs is going to take a closer look at this and go over it. There are countries where the situation has become so difficult that prisoners have been released. [The President knocks ] I'm still starring it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-01-ps-43.u126	For the sake of clarity, if we want to continue the debate on this issue, it will take place today after all other matters have been dealt with. Now if you are willing to speak, please. If not, I will say that the debate is over and this matter will be referred to the Legal Committee.
