ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u1	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 17/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u2	Mr President! As a result of this corona epidemic, this proposal extends the validity of the fixed-term law of spring 2020 so that listed companies on stock exchanges and First North can hold a general meeting entirely on the basis of remote participation, and this would continue until the end of June 2021, which is certainly a wise choice. Hopefully we will be on the sidelines of this corona epidemic next spring, and of course there is also hope that we will gradually start to receive these vaccines, but this is certainly appropriate that this legislation should be extended for a long time, because it takes time to prepare these large general meetings alone, and that is why it is good to know how these meetings will be held. But at the same time, Mr President, I hope that, now that many of these various teleconference activities have been developed and at least my own experience of many of them is very good, these good practices will also be continued at a later stage, and it is now important to gather experience on how these remote meetings are going to work and, if necessary, during the period after the epidemic. This proposal raises concerns as to whether these exceptional arrangements will undermine the rights of shareholders or members, but, on the basis of a report from spring and summer meetings on the application of this temporary law and Community law, this deterioration has not taken place in practice. In some communities, meeting participation and meeting activity have even increased compared to 2019, and it appears that this epidemic has contributed to the use of the network by both communities and their shareholders, members. In practice, however, this preparation and organisation in large groups of shareholders will require this long-term planning. The callers may be months long, which is why it is good that this law is actually being extended over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u3	Mr President! A very necessary and welcome extension. As Mr Räsänen said, this has been very successful. I have to say that regardless of age, whether it concerns younger or older conference participants, this has been well received. At the next stage, of course, sharing these best practices will be important as this legislation is now being continued. For example, it has been a surprise that these voting practices have been very different — perhaps they have not yet been understood. As far as the continuation of this legislation is concerned, we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights have also discussed a great deal. Perhaps it would be necessary to think that, although in the past, when we have discussed distance participation, we have not wanted to put everything in the legislation, but have gone according to the rules of their associations, perhaps this is where time has passed and we think that, in spite of the rules of associations, there could be a direct entry into the legislation. So it's been a... And, for example, last weekend it was great to follow the party meeting in the city centre, where there were 2,400 participants, almost a record number of persons entitled to vote, even when they were in remote contact with the meetings around Finland. In other words, this will also shape our civic activity and participation and will enable more people to participate — there is no need to go to those meeting places.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u4	Mr President! In this regard, the delegates have made good comments on these remote possibilities. After all, this temporary deviation from the Community law on the law on limited liability companies and the law on cooperatives, as well as the law on association and financial undertakings will continue in order to extend the possibilities of remote participation. It is important that these should also be passed on to the rules, as Mr Ovaska and Mr Räsänen pointed out earlier: it is important that these good practices should remain in the future. After all, they are now being exceeded and bypassed by legislation, but when they move on to the rules of the various players, they could be used smoothly in the future, not only for remote access but also for holding different hybrid meetings. This can also make it possible for people to participate in very long distances in the country, and this is reflected in association activities and in many other areas besides those on the table in this law. Of course, it requires that we ensure that there are secure systems, network and voting opportunities, but also that we have broadband, i.e. high-speed telecommunications connections in Finland, growing and spreading. From time to time, even when many meetings have been moved from remote to remote, broadband connections and their speed pose certain challenges and also concerns that, in the event of a vote — I am not talking about parliamentary votes, but generally about meetings that are remote — there may be situations where connections are not so complete and so effective that they can be used safely. Well, then, that good practices would survive: we have perhaps made the biggest digital leap in Finland’s history. Before the corona, we all used to talk beautifully about the digital leap, and money was put into it by different governments, but now, forced by necessity, the huge digital leap has taken place. And I can't help pointing out that we would also create different opportunities for remote operations in Finland on a wider scale. It may be about work, but for example we do not have a comprehensive school and upper secondary school and a distance education plan in Finland. This would be one of the things that would be worthwhile now, at the latest, after this corona crisis, so that we would have legislation, effective plans, curricula so that we could also use remote connections effectively in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u5	Mr President! Indeed, this is a unanimous report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and the previous colleagues have taken many things into account here. In the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Government should also prepare a follow-up to these issues, although these are fixed-term legislation until June next year. But indeed the concern in that Committee on Economic Affairs was the role of shareholders, especially small owners, and the strength with which they could participate in the meetings. One of the points raised was that shareholders themselves could appoint their agents to these meetings. I think it is good to think about it here too, which means that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy sees this as a good thing, but then it is also precisely the fact that what is going to do this continuum. In other words, these good practices from these experiences, as many have already said, should now be collected and viewed as an equal approach for all shareholders, including small shareholders. There was probably one thing that had been missing from the legislation, i.e. the insurance companies were somewhat forgotten here, and the Committee on Economic Affairs — and I think it was just on the recommendation of the Legal Affairs Committee — still included Article 5(4) as follows: ‘Without consulting the pension insurance companies,the insurance company isapplied with Article2§ and a member of the mutual insurance company is entitled to vote by proxy. “ So now these insurance companies are also involved in the journey. It is great to see, however, what Mr Ovaska, for example, raised here, and in many other parties, what has been done, this work, that is to say, can be done at a distance. Perhaps one of the key issues we can still have in the future with regard to the functioning of Parliament too, is that in what way these votes can then be made in these companies as well as in our politics, that this is the voice that comes from the right person, that goes to the right place and that the results are relevant. I'm sure we have some technical massages here. However, a unanimous report, one of these factors which is impressive in the corona era, is that we can act from a distance and also strengthen our digital divide.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u6	Mr President! The continuation of this legislation is certainly sensible and right in this time of interest, and indeed, as many colleagues have pointed out here, this has also led to a digital leap in various organisations and public limited companies and housing companies, which would not necessarily have happened without this imposition. Yes, I see that it is very important that we continue to see one another physically, being there at the same time. I do not think that this is the kind of bill that would go down the road to take these things, that we would completely displace physical meetings, but in Finland, for long distances, this should also be regarded as an opportunity. And if I think of my own party community, yes, the party council of more than 70 people could be carried out remotely. However, the chairman of the National Council stated that it was a bit like an air traffic control tower when he tried to hold a meeting in his gloves. And then, on the other hand, there have been various hybrid meetings where some may have been present and others have been distant. So you can say here that there are different possibilities. I would now like to see a message passed through the committee that, when we consider the follow-up, it would be reasonable for all possible associations in Finland and organizations and public limited companies and others to change their own legislation, so what if this were recorded there at the legal level? If this opportunity for remote meetings were recorded at the legal level, then it would be possible to avoid the huge meeting ramba, which already relates only to these changes in the rules. Then, of course, the other thing is whether it would be possible for the Ministry of Justice — or which ministry would now take this into its place, but perhaps the Ministry of Justice best — to consider what kind of distance voting systems could be preferred, or whether it could be said so that from a legal point of view what different requirements should be met by these systems. Of course, this is a private field and a private offering, but, for example, in order to ensure that the vote in these personal elections comes from the right person and that it does not end up in some way on the other hand in situations where anonymity is to be maintained, it must also be ensured. I think that these are important points that must be taken into account in this type of system, because, in fact, all the other things in these meetings have been brought through, but there is currently uncertainty about voting at a distance, where one has to wonder whether this was the right thing to do. And then, in this context, I can’t help but mention that we now have a lot of Teams connections in Parliament too, but for some reason the government just wants to push that Skype connection, and it does cause more than gray hair. I hope that in these systems, which we also use here in the House, we will be able to introduce such systems.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u7	Mr President! This first-reading government proposal is, of course, very timely and very good and fully supported. There is just a history of this too, that this is, in a way, a lazy report by us, the Finnish Parliament. I have spoken about it dozens of times over the years, in this House on various occasions, especially during the course of the budget readings, that one of Finland's worst mistakes has been the fact that there has been opposition in this House to the construction of optical fibre lines in rural areas — by means of which I have said dozens of times that we have the European Union's structural funds, which would certainly be the best way to build a fibre network for regional development. It is fair for all, does not duck or favour anyone, operates in companies, banks, shops, private homes, all over the world, and does not create any unfair competition. It's good when it's built. I'm saying I'm a moderate expert here. In time, we tried to get our own fibre network in my municipality of Ilomants, that is to say, to build a fibre network for all residents of the municipality, of course for summer residents, if anyone ordered it — nothing at all. The telecommunications operators were absolutely laughing that it was pointless to try, not to bother us with such a crazy idea. Well, we built it ourselves: The Ilonet share company operates today, the cost estimate was approximately EUR 10 million, completed in 2015. I have better Internet connections at home than here, much better. There's no interference, 125 megabits of connection all the time. If it costs a little bit more, I have 1 gigabit set of speed available. Here in Parliament, we are making strong speeches about whether we should finally be able to build these up. That is what I am unable to understand in Parliament's actions, and at the same time we are pushing money into Italy somewhere of 3.5 billion. I mean, it's completely insane, it doesn't make any sense in the whole thing. You don't do your job, and you give money to the Italian side. I'm so upset about this. When you look at Finnish industry, we give up all the time. We've got jobs going abroad. One reason is this lack of fibre optics. There's a lot of people trying to put their hands in a bag and go to Estonia, where everything plays. After that we come to these things when the covid is raging around the world. It's nobody's fault, but you have to deal with it. If we had these things fixed in time, we wouldn't be in this situation. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that if we in this house still do this sort of thing, we will push money from this country abroad... I've had a few nights of bad sleep and I've been sitting on the phone and I've come to the conclusion that if reason doesn't come back to this house in the first place, then it's okay that I don't even bother to say it out loud. I very much hope I am wrong, but I am afraid I am very right.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, many things are important, deserve a speech, but let us try at this sitting, now that the meeting of the large committee is approaching, to stick to the subject of the title very precisely. — Mr Kiljunen gives an example of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u10	Mr Kiljunen sets an example and remains on the subject of the heading. Mr President! You have heard great speeches and a general voice about these remote meetings and this process of digitalisation. I am sure the President will allow a discord to be made on this point, one heretic who raises at least a few questions when we are talking about this digital leap, which has also taken over Parliament, and the great joy that is here. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has been commended for having tabled a unanimous motion. Yes, I am sure that unanimity is in order if it is a matter of temporary action, but Mr Pirttilatti has suggested that these systems should be made permanent, and Mr Heinonen, in a general, delightful way, idealizes the construction and remote meetings of the whole digital world, so that I too had to run from a distance to answer Mr Heinonen, and here he seems to be sitting still.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u13	Mr President! This makes it possible for the granny of pliers, with whom only the connections are played, to take part from there to these meetings and thus to make sure that her voice is heard too if she is no longer able to go to the meeting place. In other words, this decentralization in this regard is very welcome. As far as the concerns raised by Mr Essayah and indeed the hopes for the future are concerned, I share the very same idea that the governments of the associations no longer need to make a separate decision on the possibility of remote participation, but that it should be recorded directly in the Association Act. As far as these practices are concerned, the Committee on Legal Affairs heard about this and the Ministry of Justice has already had a follow-up and a working group, but, above all, we are now sharing these experiences and ensuring that the voting behaviour and voting methods are brought to the attention of everyone. So the concerns that Essayah raised are already moving forward at the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u14	Mr President! I'm not buying that attack on representative Kiljune's digitalization.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u17	Mr Kiljunen, is there a three-minute or seven-minute speech? — — — —
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u18	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say to Mr Heinos that, although I used a rather strong, strong language, my speech was not an attack, it was a desperate defence. So that was the starting point. Mr Ovaska pointed out that it would be advantageous for him too if he could take part from a distance in the meeting. Yes, it is advantageous for him if he is able to attend a meeting from a distance, a) if he has those devices and b) if he knows how to use them. And when too many people don't have equipment, not to mention knowledge, we're in trouble. [JouniOvarian Interval] However, I too am in favour of compromises, Mr Heinonen and also Mr Ovaska. Yes, I see that these remote connections can be used. One is that when the grandmothers of Pihtiputta meet at a meeting of the Martha Club, I don't have to go to Pihtiputa to lecture at the Martha Club, but I can do it from a distance, and that's how we communicate. This may be one way to exploit remote connections. And yes, Mr Heinonen, surely the future is for us to have more and more of these remote meetings, but let this compromise now be made between us if we can help to ensure that it is always possible for us to have a physical presence at a meeting which is organised at a distance. Then we will help both when there are certainly genuinely people for whom the teleconference is the only way to participate at all, people with reduced mobility and others, to which I referred. There will always be this simultaneous possibility of existence, and it will also apply to these meetings that are held here inside the house and elsewhere. I, at least to the level of the committees, have already called for no meeting at a distance to take place as a mere meeting of the Teams, but it must be so that we can participate in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-11-ps-111.u19	This seems to have happened.
