ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to the first session of the September session. At the beginning of this first sitting, I would like not only to welcome you, but also to mention and remind you of the limitations and procedures that we follow in this Chamber this first week. As far as the plenary sessions are concerned, this means that each parliamentary group will decide on the representatives of its group taking part in the plenary session. Thus, there are about one quarter of the MPs in the Chamber at a time. Registration of the plenary session shall begin 15 minutes before the beginning of the session, when it is possible to enter and leave the Chamber without congestion. The speeches will be made at the plenary session, including presentations. The length of the speeches is three minutes. The duration of the presentations is 10 minutes. The recommendation is that, after registration, the representatives in the Chamber are mainly those who are waiting to speak. Otherwise, the session will be followed in your room. I repeat: these procedures apply to this week.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u2	An open letter from the President of the Republic on the change implemented by the Government on 6 August 1920 has been distributed to the representatives and entered in the minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u3	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u5	Madam President! The first wave of the Korona epidemic in Finland was reasonably successful in international comparisons. The restrictive measures and recommendations were timely and correct. Of course, the greatest merit belongs to all Finns who have followed security intervals and other instructions carefully. It also seems that the measures that the government and Parliament have taken together for the economy have also helped financially. We have done reasonably well in relation to the rest of Europe. Support for entrepreneurs both through business support and for entrepreneurs who have lost their jobs, on the one hand, the removal of days for employees who have become unemployed, on the other hand, it has been important that they should not be paid this year's earnings-related daily allowance - these have been measures that have sustained domestic demand and the economy, and it seems that, from the point of view of disease rates and deaths as well as the economy, we have succeeded reasonably internationally, and it has been a joint effort by all of us Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u8	Madam President! This temporary increase in tax-free income support of EUR 75 is certainly in order and is welcome for those who are deprived of income support, and both the Minister and Mr Arhinmäki here listed the groups of people for whom this is certainly important. For example, considering the situation that children have moved home to remote education in the spring, it is very likely that homes have not been able to produce food at exactly the same cost level as that compensation or school food has been, and especially growing children will surely eat more times a day than necessarily that school-day meal would have replaced. Also, in the case of older people, resorting to food services or, for example, the use of shop pick-up services has certainly increased their costs. Congregations and many organizations have done their best to manage this food work in some way, but in some respects it has also been hit, so it has not necessarily been possible to reach all the people who have been involved in these events before the corona crisis. Children’s organizations can also be commended here. Save For example, children have distributed such food coupons. In fact, one might say that the only thing I am left with is the fact that in many countries these additional subsidies for the sake of the interest rate have been specifically sought to target families with children, so there are certainly a lot of families with children now, but then there are those families with children who will not be affected by this aid. I am thinking in particular of families where there are indeed more children and these economic situations have come last spring and perhaps the income support has not been used to relying on it or the process has not been put in sufficient time for transport, and in that sense I think that there should be some way in Finland to improve the situation of these families of children. In Germany, for example, there has been a direct distribution to families with children of such a larger kind, could you say, of the type of recovery from which it has been thought that, in any case, when it ends up in consumption, it is therefore also important. Mr Arhinmäki also raised the issue of economic prospects. I have to say that I am far from being so optimistic that this economic issue has now been managed well in the course of the interest rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u13	President! The government proposal therefore proposes a fixed-term epidemic allowance to support the most economically vulnerable persons and families. The additional support is based on the deterioration of the economic situation and the impact it has on the everyday and economic situation of individual citizens. President! In my view, this proposal gives us some insight into the fact that the effects of the corona epidemic have been particularly severe for the economically disadvantaged. In many places they have been kneeling before the fact that the money has been exhausted and the bread has been left in the store and the hunger has remained. The proposal therefore proposes an amount of EUR 75 per person per month. The benefit would be tax-free, cost-benefit-type and would not affect the level or receipt of income support or other subsidies. It is clear that aid does not make anyone croissant, but it matters. It will provide mortaring and a little relief for tomorrow — in some cases perhaps even a decisive relief. President! I also like the fact that it's designed to be agile. A person entitled to an epidemic allowance does not therefore have to apply for compensation himself. Kela would therefore examine the conditions for receiving the aid, grant the aid and decide on the basis of the information in its control. Kela would therefore automatically pay compensation to the persons entitled to it — quite convenient. In this way, the basic income support received in the previous month would be necessary to obtain an epidemic payment. This means that in September, if you have received basic income support in August, and so on. Mr President! I would like to thank the government and Minister Pekos for a worthy chapter in the game. Civilization in society is measured by how it cares for those who suffer distress. This is a clear step in that direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u14	Madam President! This government proposal is welcome and certainly will bring relief to many low-income economies, and it is also important from the point of view of domestic consumption, for example employment, that such a sum is now put in the form of a resuscitation, as it were, as part of a resuscitation. After all, it is becoming a total cost of EUR 60 million for the state, which is, of course, a very large amount, and when it is targeted specifically at deprived families and deprived people, it is to be assumed that it will also go directly to domestic consumption and thus positively to the detriment of society. It is, of course, a pity that, when this proposal has had to be drafted as a matter of urgency, it has not, for example, been possible to carry out an impact assessment on children. It would be very interesting to know how much of this will then be passed on to families with children, where there will certainly be many difficulties after spring. Of course, this autumn is a critical time in which, unfortunately, many families are facing increasing economic pressure, as unemployment, for example, threatens many families because of company difficulties. It was a good thing that in spring these school meals were patched up in different ways by providing food support for families who had to feed their children at home, but these were very varied practices. In some municipalities this did not work at all and in others the food was directed only to families with low incomes, which is quite stamping out because school meals really belong to everyone. In this situation, I would now like to raise the concerns of many families with children here in the capital region. For example, plans for traffic in the Helsinki region will eliminate the free possibility of moving with wagons or strollers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u17	Madam President! This presentation is welcome. This helps a lot of low-income families. EUR 75 for these worst interest rate months will facilitate, among other things, the reduction in public transport and the feeding of children in homes instead of care facilities and school and so on. This is a very welcome hand extension and help for many families. In Finland, about 120,000 children actually live in low-income and poor families, and I would ask if it would not have been fair to target other low-income families as well. We have many families with children who do not live on basic income but are extremely low incomes, and I would like the government to be able to think about the situation of these families. Congressman Essayah brought up the Save the Children's Association. I'm worried about what's gonna happen to the great job you guys are gonna save. The Children's Association has done so, because the budget proposal presented next year, presented by the central finance minister, Mr Vanhanen, proposes 30% cuts to social welfare organisations. It is a harsh thing for all these organisations, who are doing the valuable low-threshold work for the long-term unemployed and many others, and we appeal to you to find this money somewhere and fill this budget. When Mr. Arhinmäki was allowed to speak more broadly about the corona, I will do so a little myself, for this is closely related to the corona. The strategy of testing, tracking, handling has now changed in Finland to a queue, testing, waiting tragedy. Many of these families are currently waiting in line — or even longer — for five days if they can even get to the tests. And when you get to the tests, then you wait two to four days for results. In the case of many families, ladies and gentlemen, this is a situation where a father and mother are absent from work in turn when a child is expected to return to school or day care when those tests are not available. Schools are sending children back from school for the cold. Mr President! There's a lot of concern about jobs, though. UPM, Finnair, Viking Line, Lapland travel has now reported significant downtimes and redundancies in the past few days. Now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Prime Minister Sanna Marin in particular, is expected to take steps to get work in this country, to grow up, for soon these low-income families with children who are living on basic incomes,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u18	Mr President! The corona epidemic has been trying. Many economically disadvantaged people and families have been in a tight position even before the interest rate, and now, because of the restrictions, lay-offs and unemployment brought about by the corona epidemic and the extra costs caused by the epidemic, the situation is even more difficult. It is very good that those receiving basic income support receive this EUR 75 epidemic allowance and this allowance will not otherwise affect the granting of income support. This proposal is certainly to be welcomed — thank you for it. During this week of coeliac disease, I would like to remind you that for people with celiac disease who always need an absolute gluten-free diet, the extra cost of a special diet will continue to exceed EUR 60 per month, despite the epidemic. This is a lot of money, especially if there's a lot of coeliacs in the family. The cost of a gluten-free diet is covered by supplementary income support, and it is essential that this is also the case. However, there are problems with this issue in many municipalities: for some reason these costs are not covered by supplementary income support. This must of course be corrected by the municipalities, but it is a matter of prompt correction in this house that is the celiac allowance, which is to be recovered. Last year, I took a bill to refund the celiac allowance and it was signed by 67 MPs. The government promised to report on the compensation for celiac disease, and I am now asking where these results and measures are being taken to restore the compensation. At the end of last year, the case was also dealt with by the Committee on Finance, and this Chamber unanimously adopted a statement by the Committee on Finance at the end of the year, which ‘requires that a statement on the reimbursement of compensation should be made shortly and that the costsrequired for reimbursement are taken into account in the following budgetary plan for the years21-24’. Parliament demands that we proceed swiftly. What is the government's view of the matter of urgency? Coeliacs need gluten-free food every day and every day extra money for this food. My question to the Minister is this: can we make rapid progress on the question of celiac disease compensation? During this corona crisis, food queues have also grown. The need for food aid has even tripled, but the food to be distributed is rarely gluten-free, so celiacs are in an even more difficult situation. In the Celiac Association, we launched a very much needed gluten-free food aid collection in the summer, but that is not the solution, but the celiac allowance is needed very badly, quickly back. My question to the Minister is: Will the government work? What is the situation here?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u19	Let us stick to the matter at hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u20	Madam President! Nothing is as easy for a politician as talking about the underprivileged and increasing various social benefits. Few people bother to express critical views because everyone knows what comes out of them: the outrage, the tearing of the skins, and the pious babbling of the poor again. However, it is the duty of decision-makers to bear overall responsibility for society and its future. There are great dangers to social security and poverty in populism. We all agree that the extreme forms of poverty must be combated by means of transfers of income. At the same time, it must be understood that for this purpose the State has only the resources which it can obtain, mainly by taxing Finnish work and entrepreneurship. Social security populism easily leads to the system destroying its own financial base and, in fact, to an increase in the number of poor people. Since current transfers are financed by taxation on work and enterprise, increasing transfers means higher taxation on work and enterprise. This means that the profitability of entrepreneurship and the acceptance of work will be reduced. I don't think anyone's crazy enough to work for free. The increasing tax burden in the global economy cannot be compensated by an increase in nominal wages because it destroys the competitiveness of Finnish companies and hence jobs, as has been seen in recent days. The incentive for work and entrepreneurship can be increased by increasing the amount of income that can be made available. They can be directly influenced by political decisions. Too much of people's income goes to direct and indirect taxes, housing, mobility, heating and so on, slightly depending on whether a person lives in a city or on land. Regrettably, the government's policy is hitting the pockets of an ordinary employee and an entrepreneur. A very concrete example is the increase in the fuel tax. It increases the price of mobility and the price of transport and hence the price of all goods transported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u24	I am well aware that there is a willingness to discuss a wide range of issues, but I would like to remind you that there is a proposal for an epidemic payment and a temporary amendment to the Income Support Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u25	Mr President! It sounded like Jussi Halla-aho, President of the Finns Party, was opposed to this corona increase for the poorest Finns. Perhaps the following speakers of the True Finns can specify whether this is really the line of the True Finns. There was no direct response to the speech, but it was readable between the lines,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u28	Madam President! As a result of the interest rate, we have had to target aid in a number of different directions, and it is a good thing that we have been able to do so. Support solutions have been made to the business community, to the associations, to the organisation field and now also to the most deprived citizens, and it is, of course, just and fair. As the better have been helped in a difficult situation, so also those who have the least to draw at the bottom of the purse receive help. Mr Arhinmäki raised a very important question, in which I myself appeal to us here in Parliament to be able to find a solution to this matter of tax refund, because it is, in a way, the situation in which one hand gives and the other hand takes, and I guess that has not been the starting point. Unfortunately, Korona is living very strongly here among us and is demanding action from all of us in the future, and that is why I hope that political pecking will be left right there on the birdboard. There it has some meaning and efficiency, but there is certainly no reason to peck at each other here in Parliament, because we have years of recovery and years of reconstruction ahead of us, not only in Finland but throughout Europe and the world, in connection with the problems of corona and its causes, difficulties, changes in the business field, job losses and so on. I hope that all of us will still have the enthusiasm and activity to do so in our everyday lives, so that we can continue to fight the corona and not go laxly in our own everyday lives so that we do not give a damn about ourselves and even less about others. That is why I hope that each of us will take that message forward in our own networks, that now is the time to protect ourselves and make sure that the disease does not spread again so that those companies, so that all sectors can continue to operate, including tourism, can continue to operate. We are not in a position to open up society, to open up air transport if we cannot keep the disease situation in check and orderly. But thank you to the government for a good presentation, and I hope that we will have the wisdom and the sense to resolve the issue of tax refunds in this house. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u29	Madam President! We should always be able to help the most vulnerable, but that brings us to the question of whether the form of targeting aid in this government proposal is the right one. In the big picture, there's a danger that everyone will be given everything and soon no one will get anything. The Government therefore wants to pay an additional compensation of EUR 75 for all beneficiaries of basic income support in March to July for a period of four months. The price tag for taxpayers is EUR 60 million. The criterion is that the cost of families with children has risen when children have had to eat at home instead of at day-care centre or school, but nevertheless support is presented to all recipients of basic income support, whether they have children or not. If this is a justification, why not allocate the equivalent EUR 75 instead of income to child benefit? The government is beginning to have many other examples of this, such as extending compulsory education, where for all families, regardless of their wealth, everything from school materials is free, even though most families could pay for textbooks and school trips themselves. We cannot maintain Finland’s well-being and help the most vulnerable without a functioning labour market and a favourable operating environment for industry, where it is able to operate profitably and recruit more workers. The money for these grants comes only from productive work and tax revenue. We can review this once again: the money to help the most vulnerable comes only from work and tax revenue. Work is also the best way to help, for example, with mental problems and prevention of exclusion. Responsible financial management also benefits those who need help.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u30	Mr President! Few Finns have survived the spring without changing everyday life in one way or another and causing extra costs. For a period of four months, the Board of Directors proposes additional support of EUR 75 per month per person, with a total of EUR 60 million, for those who have already been in the spring. Another cake that doesn't have what to share. This proposal is nothing more than to fish for voters' votes under the guise of a corona. I do not deny that there is a need for additional support for many people — certainly there is — and that there is more than income support for those living, but such a allocation mechanism is quite the wrong way. The government is promising people when they're going to get their hands on the Mayan crop, get them excited, and now they're going to get this Christmas gift money.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u33	Mr President! The aim of this proposal is to support the economically most vulnerable persons and families in a situation where the corona virus epidemic and the exceptional and restrictive measures that have been imposed have resulted in additional costs and costs. The situation of the most vulnerable has become more difficult during the spring. This is particularly evident for people living on the streets when the need for food aid has increased but, on the other hand, the supply of many services has also decreased. I'm sure there's a lot of use for money, and it's going to come in handy. This EUR 75 fixed-term increase in income support will improve the situation of these people. It is unfortunate for you that this support comes afterwards, and certainly, if you think that this could prevent gambling debts, for example, those debts have already been made and vips taken, so that is not what this money is actually doing. The second thing I am thinking about here is many students and low-income pensioners. As a rule, students do not even receive basic income support. Even pensioners with very small incomes would certainly have had this need for additional support, especially considering that they are in a high-risk group and have been strongly recommended to stay at home and if anyone had to order those food services at home. Similarly, I would like to highlight families with children who have been particularly targeted by the interest rate. In the spring there was remote education, in many municipalities there was no school food, or there was a picnic bag serving for those who needed it behind quite a high threshold. Yes, families with children need additional support, and this corona time has been felt in the bag of many families. In other words, the equality of this proposal, equality with others in similar situations — I would like to call for it. Otherwise, this support will certainly be necessary for all those who are now receiving it, and it is important that in future the funding of social welfare organisations will also be secured, because they are also doing this very important job for those who are disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u34	Mr President! The purpose of the epidemic allowance is to compensate the most low-income people in society for even some of the increased costs they have had to live with in the spring. This proposal could have been taken through Parliament before the summer break, but there was no rush like in the case of billions of business subsidies, payment reliefs and labour law reductions. Some EUR 20 billion was allocated to these latter. About EUR 60 million has been allocated to this epidemic compensation. The good thing about this time is, of course, that in some respects the proposal can still be corrected in Parliament. Because that is a few problems. Of course, this epidemic allowance, or EUR 75 tax-free per person, is significant and will, for example, be needed in the family of many children who have started their school. A person or family who has received basic income support in March to July 2020 and who receives basic income support in the month preceding the month of payment would be entitled to support. In addition to what Mr Arhinmäki said about tax refunds here, there is one even bigger drain defect in this proposal which I would like Parliament to correct. A large number of elderly, multi-sick and disabled people are at risk of being excluded from compensation. This also applies to a large proportion of family carers' households. These groups have been customers of income support in January to February, receiving support for medicines and medical expenses, among other things. Many of them have run out of income support when their responsibilities have been met. Those who have received income support during the period from March to July have also ceased to be customers of income support by autumn. This group of sick and elderly corona risk has suffered most during the spring from the virus and isolation policy, but they would not get anything now with this proposal. The explanatory memorandum estimates that 29 per cent of households who received income support in the spring will not receive it in the autumn and therefore will not receive an epidemic allowance. In addition, there will be no aid for epidemics for those who are not dependent on income support until the autumn and those who happen to receive tax refunds now in autumn. The weakness of this proposal, which in itself is well-intentioned and, for many people, also adds cash in hand, lies in the fact that the customers of income support are seen as one group of income recipients, even though in reality there are a wide range of people who rely on income support in very diverse life situations, many only for a short time. Nearly 40 per cent of households receiving income support in 2019 only received it for 1 to 3 months. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u36	This 45-minute discussion will be concluded by Minister Pekonen — 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u37	Mr President! Thank you for the whole gym from the left to the right for a good conversation. I understood that with the exception of the Finns, the entire hall supports this presentation. I was a little confused by the speech by Mr Halla-aho, President of the Finns Party, which I understood that Halla-aho felt that the consequences of this crisis should all be paid harder than others. True, the Finns supported business support and did not give any criticism of it, but this support for the weakest will receive criticism from you. [MariBantasy Call] The representative, Mr Koponen, raised the issue of child allowances: why were child allowances not increased rather than increased the benefit for the recipients of income support? Because the child allowance is universal and the number of recipients is quite large, and this amount would have been very small, and it was intended to provide financial support to the most vulnerable people. President! I would also like to say that this epidemic allowance is, of course, not the only measure that has provided financial support to people during this corona crisis. Among other things, during the spring, unemployment benefit was improved, for example, by removing and prolonging the days of self-responsibilities. Special attention was also paid here to families with children, to the status of families with children, and it is true, as Mrs Räsänen said earlier, that there was no time to make child effects widely in the hurry, but it has to be said that there are more than 20,000 single parents and more than 11,000 families of two guardians in receipt of income support, which means that this will also have a positive impact on all economically most economically disadvantaged families of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u38	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u39	We will now resume the debate on the 5th item which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u40	Madam President! I am very sad and am amazed that, in the light of their speeches, the Finns seem to be opposed to this temporary epidemic allowance for the poorest Finnish families, but fortunately we here on the left have been concerned about the economic situation of the most vulnerable people throughout this corona crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u43	Madam Speaker! Of course, the Finns Party will consult experts in committee and see this package as a whole. Somebody's gonna pay $60 million for this, too. It cannot be that no one in this Parliament is taking care of central government finances anymore, but it is always argued that this is an important item of expenditure so that it must be done without any savings. The Finns have made savings, we are going to make savings, and in return for the government, I would like someone to tell me where the EUR 60 million saving is — or is it the case that the state debt never has to be paid, as has been said about the Left Alliance? As such, this proposal has not received a consultation, so there is still a need for an expert consultation. A great deal has been said about the employment measures to be expected in the autumn, but the impact of this proposal on employment or unemployment has not been explained, since, apparently, the profitability of this proposal will be reduced if the level of social security increases, which means that the so-called 'incentive trap' will become more severe. Maybe it's a good point of view in itself. Much has been said about giving support to the poorest Finns. It must be pointed out that support is now being given to people other than Finns, because in the capital region, for example, about 40 per cent of the customers of income support are immigrants, so there is also such a strong population-specific focus on the immigrant population. In the whole country, about 25% of the beneficiaries are now expected to have an immigrant background. The level playing field in this proposal is questionable. In my opinion, Mr Yrttiaho, the representative of the Left Alliance, very well listed those groups who are not, but I would like to ask the government: Why do you not present support for those who have been unemployed or laid off during the corona epidemic, but you are now proposing support for those who have already received basic income support at the beginning of March, before the corona epidemic starts? On this basis, the government’s line is that none of those laid off or unemployed during the corona epidemic will receive a cent more aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u44	Irade fru talman! Det raustödet är viktigt för de personer som har det economst sällt i samhället. Det är ett elkommet och viktigt förslag. Tack till regeringen och Minister Pekonen för det. Min fråga är hur man har tänkt att lagen ska tillampas på Åland. Det rauh lagförslaget gavs redan till riskdage i train, men senare i juen har social- och älsovårdsministeriet varietyt i kontakt i ärendet med Ålands landskapsregering och diskuterat frågan. De Sakerna har ändå inte kunnat tas i beaktande effectersom lagförslaget då redan var avgett till riksdagen. Frågan om ansvarsfördelning mellan Åland och riket gällande den ox nitrogens frågor är alltid lite knepig, men i just det ox specifika fallet finns goda skäl kring varför den temporära ändringen också skulle gälla på Åland. Detta effectsom undantagstillstånd variants ulyst och restrictionner införts av statsmakten också på Åland. Undantagstillståndet gjorde nämligen att statens reservationner sted ovanför självstyrelsens behörigheter också på de områden som normalt är Ålands egen lagstiftningsbehörighet enligt självstyrelsegen. Därför har alla stöd som utformats också hits gällt på Åland, då Åland själv inte has egen behörighet att påverka hur restrictionner och andra begränsningar utformats under undantagstillståndet. Det bull ingen critik. De rau kan vara complicerade saker, och det är första gången vi står inför de rai frågeställningarna också i förhållande till Ålands självstyrelselag. Men just därför är det också viktigt att få de rauh sakerna rätt. Därför undrar jag hur man tänkt att lagen ska tillampas på Åland, och jag skulle grain att social- och älsovårdsutskottet hörde landskapsregeringen i frågan. Det har mellan landskapsregeringen och social- och älsovårdsministeriest tjänstemän diskaterat konkreta skrivningar som skulle klargöra frågan. De diskussionerna har variantt mycket construktiva har jag förstått, men de har diskaterats först effecter att lagen gavs till riksdagen då det har vart så bråttom med den. Därför har man inte municipalities beakta dem i regeringspropositionen. De ändringsförslagen — och jag har förstått, senast i dag, att det finns sådana skrivningar — kunde utskottet dock ta ställning till i utskottsbehandlingen och säkerstalla att lagen också gäller på Åland. Irade fru talman! Avslutningsvis är det viktigt att påminna om att coronakrisen har slagit otroligt hårt mot Åland på ett sätt som man på Åland aldrig hade municipalities förestella sig. Även om antet smitede varit mycket lågt, och Senaste Fallet varit 20 juli — Vilket är mycket fint och glädjande — så har den ekonomiska effekten varit brutal då krisen slagit mot hjärtat i Ålands economis: sjöfart och tourism. Arbetslösheten har ökat från drygt 3 percent till 13 percent, och därför är alla töd väkomna också på Åland under den bull exceptionella tiden.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u45	Mr President! We now have an epidemic allowance of EUR 75 per person per month. It is paid between September and December, is tax-free and is subject to income support received during the previous month and automatically comes through the system. Based on estimates, it will be paid to some 155,000 households. Mr President! When I have listened to this debate, I have the impression that almost all the parliamentary parties support this in general, except for the Finns of Peru, and that is precisely the question that I am asking myself here, when I have previously understood that the Finns of Peru are on the side of its weakest section of the population, but obviously this is not the case. I personally think that this is a good hand-out because it comes through a system that knows who is already in the most vulnerable position. We know that, for example, leaving day care and school caused a lot of expense for families with children in the form of increased food costs. Here Mr Yrttiaho pointed out that it may be that there is a problem in this bill that a number of elderly, multi-sick and disabled people may be excluded from it, so that, of course, I hope that when this is discussed in committee, there will also be possible loopholes in this area. But, Mr President, I would like to point out that, although unemployment is the biggest problem in poverty. After all, we currently have about 47,000 more unemployed people than we did a year ago, and I think it is very important that the government should bring out the proposals that will lead to unemployment. In fact, I would like to thank the Minister here again for bringing up the unemployment benefit component from EUR 300 to EUR 500 before the summer break, and I hope that we will then find out how it has affected unemployment. And another point, Mr President. It is that the interest rates on those short-term consumer loans were reduced from 20% to 10%, and this has caused even greater problems in many families where there is no money. They have completely run out of access to credit, or they have still applied for very difficult credits with high interest rates and costs. I therefore think it is important that, for example, social credit through the Guarantee Fund and through municipalities should ensure that people are able to receive temporary aid, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u46	Madam President! In the spring, before we had a recess, we dealt with a long time, months away, various corona support measures, and to various quarters we sought help and ways of dealing with this crisis. Even then, we also discussed how the corona suffers, particularly those who already have the most difficult time. Now, at last, we have a government proposal to address this issue. There have been very good speeches here, and I would say that this sum of EUR 75 may sound small to some, but the monthly supplement that comes to the recipient of income support is really relevant to those who have the least. It will require an investment of EUR 60 million from the state, but it will provide a lot of good and financial security for a lot of people. As mentioned in the Government's proposal, The Foundation’s findings on the increase in the need for assistance and support are similar to the message that comes from social workers in municipalities, from those who work with the most vulnerable people on a daily basis. They are the ones we should listen to in this situation. The financial aid group includes a wide range of people, it is a very heterogeneous group: unemployment, families with children, pensioners. We cannot put them in the same category that everyone is receiving income support for similar reasons. It must also be remembered that there are many of those who have also been faced with other challenges in life as a result of the interest rate. Many day-to-day interventions due to the interest rate were interrupted: rehabilitative work activities, daytime activities and so on. These, in turn, result in an increase in substance use, loneliness and various types of disability. Social and health organisations work with these people of the utmost importance and know these people and have shown their concern about them. Today, in this Chamber, the word ‘social security populism’ has been used by the opposition, the Finns. For a long time in social work, I can say that I represent it with pride, if that is what it is, and I will do so with joy. I can say that it would be a cold ride if we were not called social security populists.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u47	Madam President! According to the instructions, I listened to the first part of this debate in the study, and I must say that the Minister had a very good presentation. We have an important EUR 60 million here, which, in this difficult situation, is geared to the benefit of the most vulnerable in society. Many good speeches were also made here, and by that I mean those speeches which also raised the question of whether, at this stage of the committee, there might be something to change or develop, for example, with regard to targeting or extending the group of beneficiaries of this aid. Mr Kauma has just spoken, which was, in fact, the most important thing I had intended to say to my own speech, and I am happy to acknowledge the fact that I usually cross party lines when I feel the need to do so. This was clearly also supported by the National Coalition Party and Christian Democrats, but the Finns of Peru seemed to have a stone in their shoes now, and since this is a referral debate — and I understand the debate so that not only are pre-written declarations read, but also discussed — so I listened carefully to these four speeches by the Finns of Peru, Halla-aho, Simula, Koponen and Tavio. The group president, Mr Tavio, may have somewhat mitigated the criticism of the three previous names here, but there was a very strong criticism that this is in some way, to use the old saying, out of order, that this is a mere transfer of money from one pocket to another by society. But, for God's sake, what should be done in such a situation when society is in such a strong and deep crisis, but it is not all sections of the population and not all sectors of society that have yet reached out as deeply as some regions? Then we must support each other, and transfers are one way in which we do this. I'm not underestimating EUR 60 million. It is one thousandth of the state budget, about 60 billion, but, of course, if we keep adding one thousandth and another thousandth, then we will get a thousandths. It is not small money, but the Finnish government's budget will last for one thousandth of its EUR 60 million, and this is precisely where the transfer is going to the right destination.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u48	Mr President! It is good that the government is bringing this proposal, and I think it is also, in a way, a reflection of the will that exists in this fight against the corona. We need everyone involved, all citizens involved together to intensify against this external threat. There are positive signs here, for example, when a million people were charged with this new Koronavilku app a day, that the citizens are ready to be involved in this, but, yes, how we succeed in doing this will largely determine whether we can keep everyone in the same boat, and that is what this is all about. It is clear that whatever crisis it is, the worst of the crises, such as this corona crisis, are the very low-income or the most vulnerable. That is why, not only is it right, it is also necessary to support them, because there are obviously extra costs here not only for families with children but also for many pensioners, for the elderly, as we have seen. Here the Finns of Peru came up with a suggestion that this same amount should be used to raise child supplements. It is actually a good idea to assess this. If this same sum were to be used on child supplements, for example, for four months the child allowances would be increased, it would mean that the sum that would be distributed to everyone — even those who might not need it, who have not yet been hit so hard by the corona crisis — would be only a fraction, about EUR 15 per month for four months. It would definitely be inadequate for many low-income families, but then, on the other hand, it would also be possible, through this child supplementation mechanism, for many families who might not have needed it under these corona conditions or who have otherwise survived with more dry feet. In other words, this is a temporary matter of helping the most vulnerable people in our society and keeping them on board in this joint project, and that is why I would like to see broad support from the whole of Parliament. I am going to join those MPs who are a little surprised at the criticisms of the Finns. I understood from Mr Halla-aho's speech that, rather than helping the most vulnerable people, Finns in Finland would choose tax reductions, i.e. tax reductions for companies, tax reductions for income taxes, apparently. Economists can say whether it would be useful in these circumstances, in a situation where there are more difficulties for people not to be able to consume.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u49	Mr President! The autumn session has begun, and I can see that there is a lot of talk about Finns here again. In fact, I sometimes feel that for you, the Finns are more important than what we are talking about here at the moment. I think you are smart, and I'm sure you understood what Mr Halla-aho meant. He did not say that poverty populism is about helping the poor, but he said that when you explain this here, that now we are helping the low incomes again, that good things are being done, we all want to help the disadvantaged here. We want to make good decisions. He tried to point out that, at the same time, we need to talk about employment rates, jobs, the underlying causes behind poverty, about what is being tackled, not just about moving money elsewhere. I know you understand this, but it is, of course, tempting to target the Finns, which was also done by the Coalition Party later here, saying that they thought that the Finns were concerned about all the most vulnerable. To this end, I too thought that the Coalition Party was also concerned about it on behalf of the payer. But these issues, which I raised, must be discussed in this context and especially during this time when the state finances, the finances of the municipalities, are all in quite a slump. I personally am not taking a position on this package yet. As we know, this has not even been the subject of a consultation, this will be discussed in committees, when the Finns of Finland will take a stand on it. But I suppose there are other issues that may be raised here in the Chamber, rather than automatically using this card again, that the Finns are only for the well-off and want to kick others in the head. I don't like that conversation you're having there. I also think it is absolutely essential to think about the fact that when we talk about EUR 75 per person, what kind of people are here, where the help is going. Are there many sick, long-term unemployed, unable to work, what kind of families with children? It is essential to look at those issues there behind poverty and poverty. The fact that we know that more than 40% of the recipients of income support in the capital region have immigrant backgrounds is also essential. This too should be taken into account. When we take this EUR 75, I think that this government proposal, too, will arrive here in the Chamber, taking into account the fact that the Prime Minister's Party has previously promised a Mayan cent to pensioners, which I understand has not been blessed with very many coins. In comparison, EUR 75 per person is a very high sum. I will not comment on how important it is for these low incomes, but I will compare it with the rest of the policy that has been brought from there to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u50	Mr. Speaker! As a party that encourages Finnish work and entrepreneurship, the Finns consider these issues as a whole, both from the point of view of central government finances and the swelling of the society that followed from indebtedness, from the point of view of the disadvantages of social democracy, where that state economy is becoming rather unsatisfied. That's probably why it's good to have a representative...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u53	Mr President! Happy Estonian Day of Wisdom, which is there at the same time as starting schools. There is a great need for wisdom and cooperation here in Parliament during the autumn, too, when our joint task is to increase employment across Finland and at the same time to care for our most vulnerable neighbours and keep the wheels of society running all the time. We can't just treat the corona. We must act as one front and thank you for bringing different income angles to this debate. In reply to Mr Tavio: Yes, in Parliament there are those who want to be concerned about the economy and the future of the kingdom. That idea and the seriousness of it for each of us will be measured during this beginning autumn. Mr President! Korona has particularly chastised the vulnerable, the poorest. This corona grant brings help to many poor homes. It is good that the support comes through the Kela system, such as the representative The horror here brought up. You know, getting a grant should be a bit of a bit of a pain in the ass. One of the advantages of this compensation is that it returns to domestic consumption. Families have been tough. The father of the large family told me that their food bill has multiplied when children’s school food was left out. Korona has highlighted the importance of many support measures in our society. One of them is, for example, this school dinner. There are poor families with children in Finland and have been before the corona. Many children live below the poverty line. It is good that their situation has also been brought up at this time. It is worth reviewing child supplements as part of the forthcoming social reform. I hope that in committee we will hear from organisations that support families and work with families in order to make the plight of families with children clear, and I hope that the need for support for families with many children will also be taken into account in the preparation. Mr Purra raised the need to reflect on the root causes of poverty. I agree with that, and that is the debate we need to have. A child-friendly Finland will also be built in the middle of everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u54	Mr President! I would add to Mr Purra's comment that, of course, there is no interest in the role of the payer or in the balance of state finances in the assembly. But if we look at this epidemic compensation, which is EUR 75 per person per month and which is allocated to income customers, then we will be talking about a part of the population living from hand to mouth, so to speak, and I personally think that this money will go directly to consumption, to the national economy right away. In other words, this will also have a revitalizing effect, and I also think that Finland cannot be such a cold society that we would be making a fuss at this point. We have given various kinds of support and assistance to other groups, of course, including companies, but their purpose is, of course, to maintain jobs, but I think it is also necessary to ensure that the weakest sections of the population are taken care of. And in fact, when I think more closely about Mr Purra's speech there and I wonder whether we could either get an immigrant perspective for this, then it became that immigrant perspective.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u55	Mr President! The previous speech ran out of time and missed a few things, but somehow I feel that this debate is going in a good direction and the tone is changing a little bit. I must now say to Mr Purra that I fully agree that we should look at this more comprehensively when this crisis is over. We are talking about a temporary support model, so that this crisis can be overcome, but hopefully the time will come for us to really discuss what is behind the income support customership there. As I said in my previous speech, there are a wide range of factors: unemployment, substance abuse, mental health problems, disability, illness, small pensions — all the reasons why people have to rely on their last benefit. And whatever the reason, it is precisely those things that we need to think about how we deal with these matters so that people can get away from income support dependency. Of course, the main rule must be that people have jobs: more people who have jobs and less people who depend on income support. I have worked for a long time, as I am sure many of you know, with these most vulnerable people as a social worker, and I must say that on the basis of experience, I have less often seen those who would be very proud or enthusiastic and happy to receive income support and income support. Yes, in principle, people also need other support to get rid of the dependency on income support, so to speak, but fortunately we have a welfare state and a system of this kind, that when a person falls off the sled, we still have this last-minute security with which a person manages somewhat. But I'll be ready when it's time to roll up the sleeves and really think about these root causes that you can find in the background, and hopefully the time will come.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u56	Mr President! On the same lines I am like the previous speaker: it is good that this debate has moved forward. Here, if I understand correctly, this has been criticised by the Finns on account of, among other things, whether this is correctly targeted. Well, now we heard one presentation here that this would be paid through child supplements. That's a well-known problem. It would certainly not be as intended and would, of course, leave out a large proportion of those receiving income support, other than families with children, and there would then be a need for support. Is there another mechanism? We haven't heard. If other proposals have been brought in, how can we see that aid would be better targeted at the most deprived people in society than this one, I suppose, I believe, the Minister is also prepared to accept ideas. As far as the balance between work and the welfare society is concerned, first of all, of course, this proposal, which we now have, is temporary and acute in this corona. It is important to note, and obviously there is a need for it. Well, now, in his speech Mr Halla-aho is quite critical of this — he did not say directly that the Finns of Finland will oppose this, and Mr Tavio did — but at the same time he said that the second weight would then be these taxes. It was clear from it that, if I understood correctly — and I am genuinely trying to understand it — the Finns themselves would rather opt for tax reductions than, for example, increase the minimum income subsidy, which is, of course, justified by your belief that it would have major employment effects. This is something I have to question in such a way that if we look at those countries now, we look at the tax rate in different countries, in the Nordic countries, it will be terribly difficult to find a link between the well-being of the citizen, the welfare of the nation and then the tax rate, that only a low tax rate would be the key to the greater prosperity of the nation. I'm sure none of us will be happy to pay taxes, and I'm sure if you choose, of course, anyone prefers tax reduction, but you have to see that politics is a choice. In this situation, where the real problem is how people get to spend, tax cuts will certainly not bring the kind of busust that has been hoped for into the economy. For example, a reduction in income tax of EUR 1 billion from the proposal of the Coalition Party would be expected to bring only 6000
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u57	Mr. Speaker! It's a very interesting thought in itself. I am sure this autumn will also hopefully go to what is actually the tax point, where taxation is already beginning to affect the purchasing power of the people so significantly that it will have a negative impact on the entire economy. I believe that this point has already been reached in Finland, and that is why this constant increase in expenditure is quite questionable, because it is going to lead to a great deal of temptation by means of tax increases to get them patched up. It is good that Mr Lindtman raised this question of these allowances for children. In fact, perhaps this is the question of justice that I myself am considering here. Is the spirit of time simply that all new transfers and new subsidies are always to be called an interest rate supplement and an interest rate package, that is to say this interest rate, to justify it? However, we are talking about people who have been recipients of income support before the interest rate — note. This goes to persons who have been recipients of income support before the interest rate — i.e. the government does not give this to those who have been unemployed or laid off because of the interest rate, but to those who have been specifically receiving income support before the interest rate. So, in a way, the real argument that what's going on with these... This may be an unpopular opinion, but just like in the name of intelligence, I bring it up: What has the corona effect and burden genuinely been for these economies? So what is the particular burden? In some sense from the point of view of fairness one might imagine that if interest rate subsidies are given, then they will be given either equally, i.e. to everyone, or we will look for those who have been the tester of the largest interest rate list, such as restaurants. When the restaurants had to be legally closed, the Constitutional Committee stated that support, special support, was to be provided because a restriction had been made. This has not really been the subject of the fair, the field of events — they are a matter of particular concern. But fairness here is a questionable issue. This proposal, therefore, also justified the fact that children have been forced to stay at home and missed school meals, for example, is one clear argument in which the interest rate has cost households an additional cost, but this has been the case for all families with children. So it would at least be fair in itself to give it to everyone, because it is the basis of the interest rate, and it is so. It is a bit like these restaurants: when the restaurants had to be closed, there had been a corona basis, and then the corona subsidy was given where the corona basis had become. Now that it is clearly the government's intention here to provide such a stimulus, as it were, through those receiving income support, then it may not be possible to call it interest subsidy anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u58	Mr President! Perhaps I could take a position on this debate, which has now expanded slightly to include the concept of justice in a broader context and this, which is why this is called corona aid. This is called corona support because the applicants for income support must now be understood in a slightly broader spectrum, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is to say, that people are seeking the help of society, only in the extreme situation, and that is when other doors and other situations are closed. Now that it is March, you know that that person has been weak since March, and that is why you are receiving income support. He was particularly weak since April and even worse in May and even worse in June, and therefore debt has been amassed because children have been at home, situations have changed enormously, most likely from the rest of the network around it, from the support network, from pensioners, if grandparents are also poor in that family, have been loaned money, that is, a whole ecosystem has been shaken around and around this applicant, and the more children, the greater the difficulties. It is precisely at this point that it has been considered that a person seeking income support is a weaker person in this society and that the welfare state must at this point try to raise him, precisely as Mr Lindtman and several other Members of Parliament have said, to such a level that he is now able to fight with us over Christmas until we may have received a vaccine for this disease. From my own experience, I could tell you that in the '90s as a family of seven, we applied for income support — neither of my parents, unfortunately, was able to work — for a while, and I remember twice as a child, because my father was ashamed to pick up bread from the bread line, himself to get it, and when they bread, the bunnies, the sharks, I remember that we had a conversation at home, and at that point my father said that, in fact, this bread support, this bread line is for people who are even disadvantaged and should not go there anymore. And when I got those bags, there were only five or six people in front of me, as I remember. Today — I went to Tampere a week ago to see the bread line — it is already around the block, it is hugely long, and it has changed. This is precisely where people like this help, 75 euros per person, is not huge, but it is an important patch in this situation where people have been for numerous months really weak.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u59	Mr President! Representative Tavio asked why the government does not tailor the interest subsidy to those who have become unemployed or laid off because of the interest rate, so that if you are a recipient of income support, you are probably not at work. — There are also those who work and receive income support at the same time. We must now see that, first of all, the government has improved unemployment security. The interest subsidy for a person who is left on leave in the corona period, if that is what you can say, is the days of ownership that the government has taken on our common responsibility. Depending, of course, on the level of earnings-related daily allowance or basic daily allowance, it may be very significant, bigger than this one, for example. Then, in the case of restaurants, it was a question of limiting business activity due to the interest rate, and at that time this restaurant subsidy was directed at that business activity. Companies have been supported in many ways, and I do not remember that there would really be great criticism of the ranks of the Finns. When it comes to income support and recipients of income support, the situation of many recipients of income support, especially those dependent on long-term income support, is such that, in addition to income support, there may have been other support measures organised by civil society or municipalities or other means of coping with life that have been left behind because of the corona, it has been necessary to put a temporary note on the hatch. There has been precisely a distribution of food, a meal for a common table, there has been no opportunity to visit the lower products in the evenings at shops, school meals have had to be arranged. I believe that many such families with resources where the job has been kept or who are reasonably well-off have survived this. I do not believe that, in this situation, it would be necessary, in the form of interest subsidies, to distribute support, including families with children who are well-incomed. I believe there are resources to survive. But many of these things have come — although not directly from unemployment, when there is a tailor-made own mechanism — from the fact that, as if those life pieces of the necessary forms have been built up, they have been caught up and have resulted in many ways in the costs that this is now intended to cover. Is this the right thing to do, you can always criticise it, but there are no better ways to do this,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u60	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Tavio and the other Members of Parliament today. I think that this debate on this afternoon has been very constructive, that is to say that we have been able to play ball on this issue and increase each other's understanding and therefore serve the matter itself and also the work of the committee in the future and the work of the ministry. This is exactly the direction we need this autumn so that we can really manage, as Mrs Kyllönen has said before, as Finns, Europeans and in this world during this crisis. So thank you for that, thank you for the constructive debate. I would like to use my closing remarks now so that I can say one word about these organisations, which, according to some information, now appear to be in decline or are about to be cut off. Now that I have looked at these organisations during this corona spring and corona summer, which have specifically provided food aid and other activities, if they were actually cut off money right now, it would seem to me a little bit that we are now providing income support with the right hand and then cut out through these organisations right away, because these organisations have also kept the customers on their feet who depend on income support. In my opinion, the balance must now be considered in such a way that these organisations are really able to support themselves over the corona crisis and then an overall reform could be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u61	Yes, and now Minister Pekonen. Is three minutes enough? - That's enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u62	Mr President! Thank you, too, for this debate, which has been pedigreed all afternoon around this issue. From the outset, I would like to express my regret to Mr Löfström that, in the haste of spring, when this package was being prepared, Åland was ignored. Of course, the committee chooses the experts consulted by the committee on this matter independently, but I agree with the representative's wish that the Åland Islands should be consulted on this matter and that these problems should also be taken into account, and the ministry will be happy to support the committee's work in order to remedy this problem as well. I would like to say to the representatives that, of course, in the referral discussions between all the parliamentary groups, it is precisely the debate on what they think of the government's proposals and, as Mr Lindtman has said very well, it is about choices and it is about value choices. Personally, I am very proud that we have a government in which I myself can serve as Minister of Social Affairs and Health, and we believe it is important to support those who are in a disadvantaged position and who are now affected by these effects of the interest rate, so that these consequences are not too heavy for anyone to bear. The most low-income ones have little buffer for unexpected expenditure increases, and in the case of the unexpected necessary items of expenditure, we have had to borrow money or rely, for example, on quick levers, as the representatives here have well pointed out. At the worst stage of the crisis, the lowest incomes were not financially supported, even though subsidies were distributed to companies through several channels. I do not recall any criticism of this in this Chamber. I would like to say to Mr Tavio that changes were made to unemployment benefit during the spring, but it is now a matter of the government wanting to provide financial support for the most vulnerable people and families, those who receive income support, so that they receive a small increase in their income support through this interest subsidy. Mr President! The root causes of poverty have also been considered here today, but I think that it is quite another question. There is no one to blame for this economic distress caused by the crisis, and I therefore consider it very important that the vast majority of this House is behind this support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u63	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Administrative Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u64	Mr President! This proposal proposes to supplement the Government's proposal for a municipal experiment to promote employment. Six new pilot areas would now be added to the pilot areas. In addition, municipalities or municipalities would be added to the four pilot areas established in the original proposal. The original proposal does not provide sufficient detail as to which body would be responsible for the tasks covered by the law, the municipality of the experimental area or the experimental area, and this proposal now states that the tasks would be carried out by the municipality of the experimental area. However, cooperation between the Kun Roads of the Experimental Area would be the starting point for this experiment, but ultimately the municipality of the Experimental Area would be responsible for the tasks to be carried out. In accordance with the original draft law, the municipality could agree to transfer the responsibility for organising to another municipality belonging to the same experimental area, and municipalities in the experimental area could agree on forms of cooperation to carry out these tasks. According to the municipal law, this is possible. The purpose of the original proposal has been that the tasks and responsibilities of the Employment and Economic Development Office should be transferred to municipalities during the experiment. However, the original proposal lacked a number of provisions in this respect, which are now proposed to be added. The municipality of the trial area would be obliged, among other things, to organise interviews with its clients and assess the need for services and to inform the jobseeker accordingly as the Employment and Economic Development Office has in relation to its customers. It is necessary to make these additions because of the equality of customers. The Act is mainly intended to enter into force on 1 January 2021, but for these new pilot areas it would still enter into force on 1 March 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u65	Madam President! This government proposal is necessary and in fact partially corrects the shortcomings listed by the Minister in that regard in relation to the original government proposal. Indeed, this is a matter of transferring this responsibility from the TE Offices to the municipalities, and then cooperation between the municipalities is also possible. The target group is especially the long-term unemployed and young people and, for example, immigrants. It is clear that one organiser will certainly be much better able to organise and find out about the unemployed in the region and also their situation and to provide them with suitable services to promote employment. However, once again the question that has been raised in this Chamber, that is, these data protection issues, has now been ensured that the municipalities really have the necessary information about these unemployed and their situation, and that, for example, when different kinds of rekryms fairs or similar types of encounters are sent to both employers and employees, this is not hindered by some legislation that comes from those personal registers or the personal data subject? This has been the practical experience encountered in many municipalities, and I hope that the Minister will then be able to comment here on whether there is any improvement in this. Mr President! In this context, we must now encourage the government to seek all possible other forms of employment for the wallpaper, and it has been a little confusing over the last few days that, in a situation like this, where we are in Finland, we now have this debate between employers and workers, and I think that, in this situation, if we want to save the Finnish welfare society, it is extremely important that we all row in the same direction and do not really go in the same direction, but we are wondering what the means are to improve employment development. This experiment in the municipality of employment is of course important and, as I said, there are certain target groups that are particularly affected by this, but now we should also be able to influence the general situation so that Finnish companies still want to invest in Finland, that there is no flagging out and that, indeed, here, for example, the price of energy, including the price of transport fuels, is at the level of comparison with competing countries, and I hope that this is where the government will quickly change its course already here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u66	Madam President! The Christian Democratic Group in Parliament supports this government proposal, just as our party chairman said earlier. This is a proposal that concerns a rather large number of people. According to the explanatory memorandum, around 14000 unemployed, employed or job-promoting services or job-seekers in training would be moving into these complementary pilot municipalities. What I have to think about in this proposal is that all in all, although it is a positive thing, the impact on employment and the employment of people is relatively limited, and of these effects it has been stated here in the proposal that ‘experiment is expected to increase the supply of skilled labour and that’from the point of view of enterprises, labourability can improve’,but there are no estimates as to how much government believes that this is likely to have a concrete impact on these objectives. And just as Mr Essayah said, we certainly expect from the approaching budget line that the government will bring out the very concrete, effective and clear employment measures which will then have far-reaching effects than these completed municipal experiments.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u67	Madam President! To avoid economic tax increases and painful cuts, we need a third way, above all the way to employment growth, and all measures to promote employment are welcome and necessary, and that is what this supplementary proposal is all about. Here, above all, we are dismantling a bureaucratic society that is squeezing at the same time and opening the way to individual services closer to the people, and at the same time, I believe that the focus is changing more from unemployment to employment. Some have asked why more experiments. However, I can see that this is a major and important administrative reform, which is extremely important for comparable information, so that we know how the transfer will work and how it should be implemented in practice, so that the results can be best achieved. I wouldn't go downhill on this experiment. For example, my home town of Tampere has been involved in a previous municipal experiment, and the reform responds to a need identified in many respects. Different regions need genuine competence in the field of employment, close to people. Above all, the positive feedback that the models have received has been important in the experiments that have been carried out. In the direction of Tampere, for example, customers of employment services have reported that they have received help and have been consulted, and thus the employment path has made much easier progress. But the fact that the computational effects of reform are known requires that comparability, and that is what this supplementary government proposal now allows. In other words, this proposal is welcome and supported, and as knowledge of these increases, we are one step closer to implementing the reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u68	Mr President! The proposal extends, as has been said, the municipal trials on employment care, and this is a very welcome extension and clarification of these welcome municipal trials. From the point of view of municipalities, the local authorities' employment care experiments are an opportunity to influence the vitality and employment of their own region and to reduce the so-called employment fines, i.e. the portions of unemployment security in municipalities. Local government experiments will hopefully help to increase unemployment in the context of the corona crisis, and hopefully the services will be smoothed out in the municipalities, thus helping to combat the increase in long-term unemployment as a result of the economic crisis caused by the corona. Mr President! In the framework of municipal trials, personal services and support can hopefully be provided to the jobseeker. In the framework of municipal trials, it is hoped that service needs and service guidance can be identified, personalised job search guidance and training can be provided, disabled people can be directed to retirement or rehabilitation, training opportunities can be sought, wage support can be mapped, hidden jobs can be sought and people can be supported in the search for work in general. I hope, however, that these trials of municipalities will not lead to people being misdirected into rehabilitative work activities. Rehabilitating work activities are a very good and appropriate service for some people, but not for everyone, especially if there is no need for rehabilitation. The municipalities may have an incentive, an incentive, to direct people to rehabilitative work activities, even if there is no real reason for them to get rid of these employment fines, so I hope that the Ministry will also be awake on this point, so that this good proposal, as it were, does not result in the so-called abuse of rehabilitative work. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister how the results of the experiment are to be assessed and in what time frame. If the experience is good, then hopefully or possibly it may be that the responsibility of municipalities for managing employment is extended or even transferred to municipalities, but at what stage can it be expected that such possible conclusions can be drawn, depending of course on the results of the experiments?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u69	Madam President! Warmly I wish all these municipal experiments a kick in the ass and especially a kick in luck in the perspective of having the courage to do things with new models, having the courage to look at things from new angles and enabling things to happen, so that less and less of the message that comes from the citizens in terms of employment management or the management of unemployment would be that ‘when possible, you cannot afford to do this,you have too much training,you do not need to develop’. So, in a way, let's go make it possible and bring the things that need to be corrected individually in the life of the unemployed person. Yes, at the moment, there is a strong concern about the hard-to-work people and their potential, how we see it in this society, as well as about plus 45, plus 50, plus 55 and plus 60 men and women. I get weekly feedback from women up to the age of plus 45 who have a very long working experience, a great deal of knowledge and good education, but who don't even get invitations to interviews, and the feedback is that you're too old. At the same time, when we are discussing pension pipelines, raising retirement age and the need to strengthen people's employment, we must also, I dare say, about this structural age, which has grown up in our society, also have the courage to talk extensively, and also about what is inside, in terms of disease issues, the risk of illness, the risk of retirement and the economic issues that arise in, for example, business life. At least I have a feeling at the moment that if we are not able to raise these difficult issues to the social debate and to engage in that dialogue with business and industry on such a sound basis that we have every capable, working-age person as a potential worker regardless of age, gender, appearance, then we are also in a rather difficult position to support our Minister of Labour and Government in these employment efforts. Let's also get out of the old, old-fashioned ideas left behind in the structures to the demolition projects, so that we really believe that every person who wants to work has earned his place, and not see what the year of birth or gender or country of origin is. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u70	Madam President! Now if ever there is a need for strong employment services. The time we are living in is difficult and, unfortunately, these difficult times are probably not going to end. Situations such as Jämsä and Lapland will not be the last. That is why we must now have all the weight of dismissal in aftercare. It cannot be managed by the state alone. It must also be the responsibility of companies to take care of workers who are in a difficult situation. The exceptional situation brings us exceptional unemployment figures. We must ensure that this unemployment caused by the interest rate does not turn into structural unemployment, and that is why we need strong employment services. Well, that's exactly what a municipal experiment is like. Good and supportive services are needed in order to really help people and not be left alone. Sanctioning can't be an option, finding reasons to punish. Mr President! It is great that the government will bring the employment experiment to Parliament's debate on the first day. It is an expression of the very human and human policy that this government has been determined to pursue. It is easy to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u71	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for the presentation of the Government's experiment in promoting employment in the municipality, the spring presentation. As has been said here before, it is really important to mobilise all the resources now. This experiment is linked to the objectives of the Government Programme to increase the employment rate, and now the interest rate has again brought challenges to this end. This is a very important issue. We have, for example. Kainuu has had certain types of municipal experiment — or the municipality has participated — and good results have been achieved. I also hope that more employment will be achieved in these additional areas, which are currently being proposed in addition to the spring proposals. After all, the purpose of this law is to combine the competence of the state and the municipalities, and it is very important that this cooperation now goes smoothly. When we look at the situation at the moment, we must be able to improve productivity, as has been said in a great many different contexts, and that also means that the employed must be at both ends of working life. In other words, we need to get young people into work and, accordingly, older people to work longer or at least close to retirement age, so that, as Mrs Kyllönen said, they do not say that they are too old to work. Well, then, challenges have been raised as to whether this experiment will achieve better results in terms of employment management. Of course, when this is an experiment, this examines whether employment-promoting tasks can be more efficient managed by municipalities than by the state alone. Of course, effectiveness is expected to arise from the combination of the human resources of the state and municipalities in particular, and from the fact that municipalities, as multidisciplinary authorities, are able to operate more widely for the needs of customers. In other words, I believe that this will achieve good results, and when you look at the previous pilot models, this has always achieved a better result than the fact that these have been managed by the State alone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u72	Madam President! The aim of the local employment experiment is to promote employment and improve the services of the unemployed by better linking the municipal services and employment services together and by pooling the resources of the municipality and the Employment and Economic Development Office to better serve unemployed jobseekers. This experiment will make it possible to make better use of social and health services, on the one hand, and education services, on the other, as part of the promotion of employment. With these services in one hand, it will be easier to develop them as a whole. The success of improving the effectiveness of employment services is now all the more important as the number of unemployed people has increased with the interest rate. In Espoo alone, the target group of this experiment has grown by around 5,000 and is now close to 19,000 people — the situation in January cannot be predicted yet. With this complementary legislative proposal, six new pilot areas are proposed and will bring 14,000 new people into the scope of this experiment. Mr President! It is worth noting that the pilot law does not take into account changes in the labour market situation due to the interest rate situation and thus the number of unemployed people who will be subject to the experiment. Both the increase in the target group of the pilot area and the changes in the composition of the target group have a direct impact on the operation of the pilot areas. A specific question is, for example, the inclusion of laid-off persons in the target group of the experiment. The starting point of the legislation is that the state allocates a number of resources corresponding to the current service level to carry out the tasks and then adds the municipalities' own resources. The impact of interest on service needs also poses challenges to the adequacy of the funds allocated to services. It is essential to ensure sufficient staff in the pilot areas so as not to create the bottlenecks it has had so far. Madam President! The main objective of the law is to reduce duplication of administrative work and to provide smooth and comprehensive services to the unemployed as far as possible on a one-stop-shop basis. In order to ensure this success, it is important to assess the original draft law and now the supplementary proposal on the basis of opinions and committee consultations from the municipalities. The law is intended to enter into force in the early 21st and early March for the new regions, and it is important to keep pace with this timetable in order to get the experiments and the development of services under way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u73	Madam President! Projects and experiments that exaggerate the public sector will not save Finland. Municipalities are still in a worsening crisis and are in trouble to find ways to adapt. Pressures on municipalities to reduce their own personnel are high. The cost-sharing of labour market support is a kind of incentive trap for municipalities, where the aim is to cut back on payment dates. In the absence of private jobs, unemployed people have been directed specifically to rehabilitative work activities and work trials, often in municipalities. When the municipalities adjust their personnel, this road will rise up. At the same time, private jobs continue to decline with the government's involvement, and everyone who goes around the field knows that employment services are not the answer to the recruitment problems in the SME sector. One of the key reasons for the lack of private jobs is the excessive public sector. The municipal experiment would be another thick nail to the public sector coffin. It extenuates public spending, further increases red tape. It re-invents the wheel, adds mouse snappers and masters in municipalities and TE centres. The tax wedge just keeps growing. Madam President! They say beautiful words and wish you all the best. However, the municipal experiment does not solve the employment problems of this country. It does not improve customer service or lighten the public sector. We do not need two parallel employment organisations. We need one efficient and light organisation with processes and ict systems operating, unlike at present, an employment organisation in which those who need social services are not forced to hang. It is also necessary to develop labour market support to encourage genuine employment rather than trickery. We can't afford new public-sector dims. The Board of Directors should therefore withdraw the bill of the municipal trial and submit a proposal on the access of municipalities to the customer information systems of the TE Centres and, of course, ensure that these systems work, and then start building a single efficient and lightweight employment organisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u74	Before the Minister has spoken, I will give Mr Eskelinen the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u75	Mr President! Contrary to what Mr Ranne said, this is where employment models are being made more efficient and that wheel is being rebuilt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u78	Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u79	Madam President! Thank you for a good conversation. During the debate, a number of essential issues arose, and I welcome this debate and also the debate that took place before the summer break, in which the municipal experiment received a good response from the Parliament. On this basis, it is good to take this forward, and the committee will now be able to deal with it. These are the groups that are most vulnerable. These groups include young people under the age of 30, unemployed job seekers with an immigrant background, and also unemployed job seekers with Kela benefits, and therefore the aim of this reform is precisely to provide information on whether the experiment will provide information on whether a more effective set of services, in which the resources of the state and municipalities will be put in a single basket and thus strengthen the volume and competence of the authorities around the unemployed. Congressman Wrist was trying to find out if there was going to be dim and multiple. This is precisely the aim of enabling us to combine and seek synergies and integrate this activity and to take as a starting point the customer and his needs. There are good experiences of these previous municipal experiments. Among other things, Mr Ovaska went through the experiment in Pirkanmaa, and it is precisely in this way that there is evidence that customer satisfaction is better and that the availability of services has improved. I believe that we need to get to the Nordic model, where services are strengthened, condensed and the customer is included in a good set of services, where his needs are built on the whole. With interest, unemployment is rising. It has already grown, it has started to grow, especially for young people, but now redundancies are bringing this problem even bigger and that is why, in the face of this phenomenon, we must do everything in our power to employ employment measures, to make the services stronger, but then we will also get the demand for work, and then we will talk about vitality, business survival and investment in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u80	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u81	We will now resume the debate on the 6th item which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u82	Mr President! Point 6 is a supplement to the local employment test. It is quite appropriate that this demonstration of the municipal experiment, which has been brought here in Parliament in the spring, should now be completed. It is very good that this will be specified with regard to responsibilities, i.e. that municipal responsibilities will be created here and that this proposal will also be supplemented by the addition of regular job interviewing and assessment of the need for services. All this employment experiment, the municipal experiment, is one of the most important government projects to promote employment, and the experiment is very important because it enables many Finns to provide the services they need in a close and tailor-made way. Through this experiment, we are helping to shift the focus of labour market policy from unemployment management to employment, and I personally see that it is very important that this is done in parallel with entrepreneurs and also with the local economy and business and vitality services. Here we need to break down the so-called old red tape fortresses and make new openings, which are close to entrepreneurs and then close to the unemployed, that is to say, there will be three more areas to expand, and there will also be this much discussed Kaipola region this week, namely Jämsä. We must thank the ministries at this stage that very quickly action was also taken following the closure of this Jämsän factory, that employment measures have also been involved there and that the ministers have been visible in the region, thanks to that. Then comments on these municipal experiments. In Pirkanmaa we had a municipal experiment and had good results, but then how permanent those jobs are after this kind of experiment, of course, can be estimated, and it would be good if, for example, in Pirkanmaa and these municipal experiments, it would be clear how it would be reported and seen how it would be possible to achieve permanent jobs for the private sector, including the public sector. Here it is important that the cooperation between the state and the municipality and the creation of its cooperation, and I hope that there is no mutual pecking or use of power, for example, around this data protection issue. I myself have at least experienced the problem of this data protection on a large number of issues, the fact that the authorities cannot smoothly exchange information about the target persons, customers, and hopefully this will not be the case. The second is this involvement of service packages here, such as training and recruitment services, and I would see that it would be good to be both public and private players and not to be allergic to these good, excellent private services that are helping. We now need all the help, all the actors, in order to improve employment in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u83	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to extend the municipal test of promoting employment to include six new pilot areas in the pilot areas and to include more municipalities in the four regions set out in the original proposal. In addition, the provisions on tasks would be specified in such a way that the tasks referred to in the proposed law will continue to be the responsibility of the municipalities in the pilot area. And that is not all: in addition, the regulation of the tasks would be supplemented to ensure that, in so far as the tasks are transferred to the municipality of the experimental area, its obligations would be in line with the obligations of the Employment and Economic Development Office. With regard to this trial of municipalities, I am now going to make a very critical examination. In other words, the aim in practice is to speed up the implementation of employment services on the territory of municipalities or more so-called co-operation areas. I do not see these experiments as a very big key to solving the real problems, just as Mrs Ranne said earlier in this Chamber. Spelling responsibilities does not help, for example, long-term unemployment, the running of the workforce, the challenges of mobility, or from the door of unemployed job seekers to the door. For example, the government should rather focus on addressing the problems of labour mobility. These include the high price of housing in growth centres and the high price of driving. Again, it makes no sense to constantly increase the cost of driving. There has also been criticism from experts that the reform does not solve the challenges of labour mobility, and there is also a risk that services will be buried and differentiated. The most important aspect of employment is, of course, the existence of jobs. You would think that the government would wake up at the latest with the latest paper mills that its actions in areas such as taxation and environmental policy inevitably lead to job losses. No employment services will be able to help it anymore. In addition, the evaluation of the results of these experiments has been complex and evidence of success is on a fragile basis. At the moment, there is a pressing need for effective national measures to tackle unemployment problems. Finally, Mr President, the results of the experiments in Northern Savo, Southwest Finland and Satakunta did not differ from those of the outside experiments. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u84	Mr President! The supplement to the municipal trials has arrived in the Parliament. The changes here are small, mainly related to the number and size of experimental sites. There are no changes to the structure itself or to the dynamics of the experiment, i.e. the problems are exactly the same as they were before. The employment rate, employment and employment are perhaps more of our concern this autumn than for decades. Regrettably, the government has not reacted in this respect as if it were on the run, but perhaps we will have important decisions on the budget debate. Employment experiments have been carried out before, and there have been problems and there have been problems. From an overall perspective, it should be understood that this is a social policy, not a sustainable employment measure, and it should not be confused with the measures required to balance public finances or the measures required to achieve a sustainable increase in employment rates. As we know, it is worth raising the employment rate by primarily ensuring that companies have the opportunity to grow, invest, hire and produce. This gives rise to work that is productive and on which a person gets along and pays taxes. It is not, therefore, primarily through the expansion of the public sector, which is precisely what employment experiments are. However, since they are social policy, which I do not consider to be a bad thing, and it is precisely a way of trying to address the situation of the most vulnerable people in the labour market, it would be worth doing well. The target group of the experiment includes unemployed jobseekers, employed persons and those in employment-promoting services who are not entitled to earnings-related daily allowance, as well as all persons under the age of 30 and all immigrants as well as foreign-language speakers. This is, of course, some sort of delimitation. Perhaps it would be worth thinking about these issues in terms of immigration policy. For example, would older older people in Finland who are still of good working age but who are older or willing to work be better target groups on their own? When it comes to employment measures with tax money, the least that we must demand is that the government examines the cost-benefit effects of experiments and wage subsidies, the clear, concrete consequences, and compare them with groups that have not been involved. In addition, the potential effects of measures to prevent exclusion should also be determined in euro, not just through surveys. All social employment policies need to find out how many people are employed in the open market. We know from experience that very few. The National Audit Office has also recommended that the results of these experiments should be systematically monitored and impact assessments carried out. In terms of the problematic structure of the project, it is simply a question of the lack of a reasonable benchmark, and this makes it very difficult in terms of research. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u85	Mr President! It is good that this government proposal has now come to Parliament and that this experiment in promoting employment in municipalities should be changed so that smaller municipalities can also be included. In fact, this was about to happen in such a way that large cities with a high employment potential were admitted to the employment experiment, much better than in rural areas. Thank you to Marjut Ahoka, mayor of Ilomants, my own municipality. He was determined to take care of the matter on behalf of his office and, of course, received strong support from the trustees, both the municipal board and the municipal council, that we should go and take this. Ilomantsi offered immediately as a cooperation area for smaller municipalities. This included our neighbouring communities: Lieksa, Kitee, Juuka, Tohmajärvi, Heinävesi and Rääkkylä. Such a coalition of small municipalities was quickly born, the mayors and elected representatives agreed on the matter, and the motion left, and it was lobbying right here, down to the minister and, of course, in the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. And in many other contexts it was said that there cannot be an employment experiment so that the municipalities most severely affected by unemployment are left out and those regions which have the potential to get people to work — open-sector jobs, businesses and so on — are then involved. It must be remembered that such municipalities, such as my municipality of residence, Ilomantsi and the municipalities of the province of North Karelia that have just been mentioned, are municipalities where the unemployment rate is up to 10 percentage points higher than the national average. So that's where you keep the potential to create more people to work. It is valuable that, with this bill, this activity is transferred directly from the Ely Centres to the municipalities, to every municipality that is involved in the experiment, when it is local. These conditions are known locally, and the municipalities themselves will, of course, bear the responsibility for the proportion of income support in the municipality. In other words, after a certain limit, the municipal part of labour market support will be entirely paid by the municipality, and it is already a huge expenditure item for municipalities today. That is why, now that this experiment has been carried out — although I may say a little bit — it was a stale start, but the main thing is to get moving — then to keep the government honest, as has been done so far, and openly to provide more resources to create these jobs. And above all, we need to make a real effort when, in local Ilomants conditions and in border regions in general, we have little employment potential. What we need is that job opportunity. Every opportunity we want to use is that people get to work, and not that we are making such areas that all regions are protected and that nothing should be done and unemployment is rising. This is the goal that the government needs to know.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u86	Mr President! Work brings great meaning and content to life. When you get to help others and society through your own strengths, you feel you need to. This is a clear and good and necessary complement to this test of local government to promote employment. I would like to highlight cooperation between municipalities in this experiment, particularly from the point of view of education. It is good that these municipal trials take place in different parts of Finland, because regional situations and conditions are very different. I am pleased that the government will bring six new areas into the experiment, allowing municipalities from Kalajoki valley to participate in the experiment, including my birther Merijärvi and its neighbours Alavieska, Kalajoki, Oulainen and Ylivieska. The results of this experiment should be disseminated and processed with time throughout the region and also more widely into the same type of terrain at the national level. This supplement to the law makes the necessary additions from the point of view of equality among citizens. When a municipality is set up as a responsible operator, the individual person’s responsibility for steering is clearly defined. The municipality has an obligation to inform the jobseeker, to provide work, business services and training, and to organise services supporting the employment plan. The municipality as an operator is also close enough to a person, as Mr Hoskonen has already said. It's a good place to know your customers. One of the main ideas is cooperation. We must continue on the path of closer cooperation between municipalities. Instead of coercion and coercion, small ones can also be effective and effective. This is where these customized services come close. There must also be cooperation between educational institutions and companies in the region. Specific and conversion training is needed as part of continuous learning. We need to look further into the future, where many people are going to work partly and partly as an entrepreneur. That is why training for entrepreneurship is also needed throughout the school path, but also among those working and unemployed. Mr President! I hope that this idea of continuous learning will be included in this municipal experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u87	President! This proposal therefore extends the local employment test by adding six new regions to the scope of the action. In addition to this, the areas set out in the original proposal are being extended — quite rational. I also take pleasure in the fact that the municipalities of my own province, South Ostrobothnia, have a broad front for enlargement. South Ostrobothnia has long been a high-employment region, but the signs of time are also testing our hard-working province. Employment trials are one of the government's important measures to promote employment. The experiment is important because as many Finns as possible can get the services they need in a close and tailor-made way. I believe that this is the essence of the proposal, that is to say, human action, which avoids facelessness and confronts people from the floor level. President! Another important point is that through the experiment, we will help to shift the focus of labour policy from unemployment to employment, from unemployment to employment. This is absolutely crucial for us to take a position as factors of employment, not only to pet, but to act in such a way that a person encounters work and work meets a person. President! The pilot is also important for the centre because we believe that employment is progressing above all by moving with work and entrepreneurship. There is no smarter way. With the municipal trials, we will break down the bureaucratic structures of yesterday's world and build decentralised services to improve the opportunities of working life and the vitality of the regions. Quite often it is in the municipalities that there is a chance of doing better if they are granted it. President! The starting point for the experiment is, as Mr Kinnunen well said, cooperation between municipalities. True, recognizing this fact and acting from that point of view is the beginning of wisdom. So thank you to the government — a very good presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u88	Mr President! Finland's success must be built with hard work in the future, and it is important that the government now at least this much sacrifice the idea that employment can be improved in Finland. Many of these actions, which municipalities can take in practice, are certainly very impressive, and in itself this government proposal is well founded. In fact, Mr President, in many cases the government could count on the right level of cooperation between municipalities and local authorities, which is close to people, to take the right direction in the future. Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in order for municipalities to have the opportunity to offer these job opportunities to people, Finland must become a major investment destination. At the moment, of course, we are in a pandemic situation in which the global economic recession is going to shake up our economy, too, and we have already seen practical examples of this — the government's employment objectives are being distanced from each day. As we can see a little into the future as well, the government must really take all the measures to promote that unemployment in Finland is not going to rise as violently as it is to be feared. In this context, I would also like to make a direct appeal to the Government, for example, on behalf of the Finnish tourism industry. Tourism has a huge potential for the coming years, and if, for example, we look at this kind of experiment in the municipality of employment, if we wipe the wings out of tourism in the coming winter, then it will be very difficult to see how the industry can fly in the coming years. It is essential to create, of course, conditions for health and safety, conditions for entry, such as the winter season in the northernmost part of the country, so that the thousands and thousands of jobs that are linked to this can be secured — not only to safeguard them, but also to ensure, through a successful tourist season, that there are opportunities to invest in future growth in the years to come. I see that in this industry Finland has a great potential to create new jobs across the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u89	Mr President! The strength of municipal employment services can be considered to be good knowledge of the jobs offered by the municipality, customer orientation and personal, individual and solutions-oriented services. Previous municipal trials have already shown that local government experiments have achieved precisely these objectives, and the strengths of the municipality have been noted. Especially in smaller municipalities, such as Outokumpu, where I come from, customers are known almost personally. The government's proposals on the employment experiment are therefore received with great joy. Unlike Mr Purra, I do have a strong belief that this will not exaggerate public finances, but will bring savings there in the long term. Moreover, we should remember that this is a strong will of the municipalities, and I believe that we are nothing here to reproach the municipalities if they want to take part in the municipal experiment. I can tell you that, for example, in my own country, North Karelia, there is a very bad structural unemployment. We're also wrestling with the problem of encounters. We have job vacancies, but we do not have employees, and they were looking forward to these decisions. And, as Mr Hoskonen said, in the first round we had a few municipalities on the beach, and now, within this new extension period, these municipalities also submitted an application there. Yesterday I just met the mayor of Juva, who was very happy to say that their municipality has also made it to this municipal experiment, and was very happy on behalf of the municipality. If the former methods have not worked, then new ways must be found, and this experiment is aimed at improving the efficiency of employment services, more effective employment for the unemployed in the open labour market and a reduction in the total cost of unemployment to the public economy, certainly not an increase. By experimenting with municipalities, we will also break down old structures and look with open eyes to the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u90	Mr President! I missed the last speech a little bit from the end. That's what I was trying to stress. It is indeed an experiment, a kind of experiment, which should, of course, be built in such a way that the results can be assessed. In this case, they should be assessed in relation to a number that are not in the region or in the same municipality under this experiment, in a similar labour market situation, with similar training, rather similar history. In this experiment, however, such an arrangement is not emerging. Several speakers have referred here to the good results of previous experiments. Of course, efficiency and customer orientation are great goals, and sometimes they always come true. This alone cannot be the result of an experiment to get the experiment started, to build a model of some kind that might be able to intervene in something while it is in force, possibly to build more bureaucracy. This has also happened in previous experiments. This is hardly an exception. This is a certain consequence of this, but I cannot call it a good result if it does not actually mean that people's work paths have been smoothed out, people have been employed, at least part of the open market. If there is no employment in the open market, such an experiment is pointless. In that case, we could only approach the matter through a personal measure of social policy, for example by offering people something to do for the day that their living and being are more satisfying, but then it should not be confused with the fact that we are experimenting with employment or trying to increase employment or improve the position of people on the labour market. And this is a problem in this package that what it wants to do cannot be clarified, it cannot be investigated and it cannot produce results.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u91	Mr President! Firstly, in this employment experiment, it is a good thing that we are trying to do something actively, and precisely that responsibility is being shared towards the municipalities. After all, municipalities are struggling with this unemployment when people are unemployed, and it personally affects these unemployed people in a very violent way, it affects services, it affects the municipality's activities in general, i.e. the address is correct. Admittedly, there are problems with what Mr Purra mentioned in the previous speech. We all know that there is little money going on. I don't think there's ever too much of that going on at a time like this. But the first job we have to do is that we have to go through the whole group of unemployed people who are out of work at the moment. There are very many people with multidisciplinary injuries who have suffered various diseases or others during their lives that limit their ability to work. Such cases should be dealt with in confidence between the occupational doctor and the person concerned and then retired with dignity if there is really no more working capacity. Their running and balling from one door to another is degrading to human dignity, and I think we should get rid of it. These persons who are entitled to an invalidity pension or similar pension must be directed to such a pension, and then the remaining number of people will be sought to take effective measures to get a job. At the moment, Finland is experiencing an extremely worrying phenomenon, and it concerns rural communities in particular. We have taken the pursuit of forestry to a very difficult situation in this country. It seems that we have nothing left in this country except protection, protection, protection and protection. Forest logging is restricted in every way. Take a look at the Kaipola case: how many more unemployed people will be there. And remember, ladies and gentlemen, even though this group in this Chamber is very few, I am sure everyone will be aware that this development, which is taking place in Finland on the forestry side, is extremely damaging for Finland. We are putting an end to the forestry industry, and yet the next speech calls for more protected areas, and then we are going to shout again that we need to build wooden houses. How will you build those wooden houses, my dear doubter, if the logging of forests is banned and the logs are no longer to be cut down? They're not gonna build those houses out of rubble. The same applies to peat. Finland is now beginning to grub up the destruction areas of Europe. Last summer in Europe, one hundred million mounds of wood died from insects and fungal diseases, and now they are being picked up and brought to Finland by boat when peat is not allowed to be used. At the same time, a truck drives a huge amount of fiberwood directly into the fire. This is taking up jobs in rural areas and is at war with the government's proposal at hand. In other words, we ourselves are making dim decisions in this house, making terrible mistakes, and then we are struggling with the presentations of these governments here at different tables in the committees and here in the great Chamber. I hope that little by little the coordination will return and reason will prevail.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u92	Mr President! To follow up on my previous speech, I have a few thoughts that have not been said: We are raising our country's interest rate from this discipline by increasing employment. That is why this proposal is very much to be welcomed. The experiments must, of course, be a genuine development, leaving a permanent mark on the region. The purpose of this experiment is to improve access to the labour market, in particular for those who have been unemployed for a long time and those who have a weak position in the labour market. It is good that a provision on the organisation of an interview with a job seeker and a careful assessment of the need for services is now included in the law. When all this happens in a municipality close to it and in cooperation with the surrounding communities, it has a good chance of success. Municipalities and regions must courageously integrate the training experts in the region into employment services. Let us take a great step towards a municipality of the future, whose task is to take care of its own vitality and education. You have to have the courage to look at it in a new way. As has already been mentioned, this experiment will continue to de-bureaucratise with merit during the last term of government. It builds decentralised local services and assembles them on a one-stop shop. When we need different forms of continuing training as work changes, it will be easier to develop them in municipalities and regions when employment services and skills in education and training and businesses are made to cooperate closely with each other through this experiment. In this way, reform can contribute to improving the vitality of the regions. Finland is a country of regions and regions where we need to develop each region from its own strengths.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u93	Mr President! In fact, Mr Kinnunen spoke very well about the content of this government's proposal, but perhaps a few words more broadly on employment. Finland needs an extensive industrial competitiveness programme. For the past ten years, we have been living in a situation where depreciation is constantly greater than investment and thus the productive capacity of the national economy is weakened. In this sense, we are all parties in the same boat, regardless of the colour of the parties in the government. But when everyone will surely understand that, even in the future, a welfare society can only be financed by working and if we have jobs, we must have profitable businesses and new investments here, then the government must really get serious on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would like you, together now that we applaud this good government proposal, to take up some of the good statements made by the opposition. The Coalition Party has proposed a broad programme of more than 120,000 new jobs. There you can use tools to get Finns work and livelihood and thus have strong faith in the future, and if there is something that is not good, then the government can propose similar measures in place, which will then have an equal impact. Of course, what the municipalities can do now on the basis of this government's proposal is good work, but, unfortunately, the employment effects that can be calculated are such that they are not enough to reverse this trend of economic development, which we must necessarily succeed in turning back into a growth path. In this respect, it is good that such a proposal is on the table, but there is now a huge need for these proposals to promote employment, on a completely different scale.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u94	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. In this context, discussion is also allowed on the 8th issue of the agenda. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u95	Mr President! The Ministry of Employment and the Economy has prepared this proposal for a law on the temporary amendment of Section 26 of the Competition Act. This proposal concerns the temporary extension of the deadline for the second phase of acquisitions notified to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection by approximately one month. The interest crisis has now affected citizens and also businesses, the authorities in many different ways during this spring and summer. One consequence has now been that the Competition and Consumer Authority has been more difficult and slower to obtain information from companies operating on the market to determine the impact of acquisitions. In particular, the information requested from non-traders on the market has slowed down substantially. This proposal constitutes a precautionary measure against the effects of the continuation of the epidemic. The purpose of the proposal is to allow the Competition and Consumer Authority a longer processing period for the second stage of acquisitions in order to enable the Agency to deal with potentially problematic and requiring further clarifications in an appropriate and timely manner also during the consequences of the corona epidemic. This Government proposal from 99 of these Parliaments was not discussed in Parliament before the summer break. In order to ensure that the purpose of the proposal can now be achieved in spite of this, a supplementary Government proposal 106 from these Parliaments was submitted on 2 July 2020. According to the supplementary proposal, the amendment would apply to acquisitions notified to the Agency after the submission of the supplementary proposal, i.e. after 2.7.2020. As in the original proposal, the law should enter into force as soon as possible and be in force until the end of October 2020. The law would therefore apply to the acquisitions notified between 3 July and 31 October 2020. The impact of the extension of the second phase treatment period would be the longest to be reached in May 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u96	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u97	Mr President! This bill, the government proposal, is a law on the monitoring of foreign acquisitions, i.e. the acquisition law, which has been in force for more than eight years. The Act entered into force in June 2012. Amendments to the Act have been made once before, in 2014. Finland has already had legislation in this area since 1939. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy is responsible for the monitoring and validation processes of legal foreign acquisitions in close cooperation with other key authorities. The purpose of this acquisition law is to monitor and, if the important national interest so requires, limit the transfer of influence to foreign owners. We are talking about security-critical acquisitions. However, the law is based on the promotion of foreign investment and the positive attitude towards foreign ownership. Securing military defence, national security and the vital functions of society are key issues in assessing the possible risk of endangering a very important national interest. The vital functions of society are, for example, the safeguarding of security of supply and critical infrastructures. The diversification of the security environment, global development and difficult predictability require greater consideration of military defence, national security and foreign and security policy issues in the monitoring of foreign acquisitions and the assessment of a very important national interest. In the event of a change in the international security environment, national legislation in this area must also be up-to-date and, therefore, it is also necessary to carry out a regular evaluation of its functioning at the practical level. The government proposal now under discussion aims to introduce new provisions into the law on the basis of the European Parliament and Council Regulation establishing a framework for the monitoring of foreign direct investment in the Union, i.e. the EU Monitoring Regulation. The full application of the Regulation between Member States and the Commission will begin on 11 October 2020. The amendments to the law are also intended to clarify the law on takeovers as regards the practical application of the law in relation to the issues raised. However, the scope of the law is not extended by the proposed amendments and additions. The law has also proved effective in practice. On the basis of this EU monitoring regulation, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy will now also have new responsibilities for the authorities. According to the proposal, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy would act as a national contact point under the EU Monitoring Regulation on cooperation, exchange of information and implementation issues between Member States and the Union. It is proposed to introduce new provisions on the circumvention of the law and the disclosure of confidential information to the Authority. The proposal also proposes to make changes to the definitions of the law in order to clarify the practical application of the law. A new provision is also proposed to be added to the law on the non-examination of the case. In addition, it is proposed to add to the provision on takeovers in the defence sector acquisitions in the security sector, to which the Ministry of Employment and the Economy should also apply in advance for confirmation. This applies to situations where a company that is the subject of a takeover produces or supplies critical products and services to Finnish authorities that are central to the security of society. The proposal also proposes that a new provision be added to the law, allowing the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to impose conditions on matters relating to the strengthening of the acquisition. According to the proposal, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy can improve compliance with the terms by means of a penalty payment. The proposal has been prepared under the leadership of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy in a legislative project carried out in close cooperation with other relevant ministries and other authorities. Foreign acquisitions are systematically monitored by a network of public authorities under the leadership of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. In the case of covid-19 exceptions, the monitoring of acquisitions has been further enhanced, for example in the case of possible acquisitions of healthcare protective equipment by companies. The assessment under the Acquisitions Act is time-related and our legislation is also well adapted to such exceptional situations, so that the focus of monitoring may change in relation to normal circumstances. Under the law, the Ministry has the right to request further information on acquisitions covered by the law and requires that the case be examined by the Ministry in a formal verification process.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-01-ps-105.u98	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the law on the monitoring of foreign acquisitions. New provisions are proposed for monitoring direct investment in the European Union and some changes for national reasons. In addition, it is proposed to add to the provision on takeovers in the defence sector acquisitions in the security sector, to which the Ministry of Employment and the Economy must apply in advance for confirmation. The impact of this proposal is on defence and security acquisitions. In this context, it is also appropriate to discuss acquisitions in other sectors of society that target key functions. Foreign acquisitions have an impact both at EU level and at national level. The proposal therefore mentions that, in the event of a change in the international security environment, national legislation needs to be up-to-date and it also needs to be regularly assessed at the practical level. I absolutely agree with that. I believe that it would also be essential to anticipate risks more actively in order to avoid as much damage as possible. In the case of Finland, a key example relates to land-based trades close to areas of national defence importance. I think it has been scandalous how easily these land deals have been allowed to take place. More stringent scrutiny is needed so that national security does not become more vulnerable. The proposal mentions that the EU is one of the most open economies for foreign direct investment and is also one of the largest investment targets worldwide. Acquisitions of foreign investors in the EU may also affect, for example, companies that are critical to the security of the EU or its Member States, or that develop or maintain infrastructure that is essential for society and the economy. Thus, foreign investment can become a risk for the security or social order of the Member States. It seems that legislation always lags behind. In this case, it is important to make rapid progress on security-enhancing reforms at both EU and Finnish level. Mr President! In particular, Finland should consider ensuring that our country’s operations are safeguarded by ensuring that the ownership of companies or natural resources and the central infrastructure does not constitute an unnecessary risk to the functioning of our country. So far Kemira, Caruna, among others, has been traded. The first one also emerged last spring in the midst of the corona crisis. We would have needed protective equipment, but after the foreign owner had put a profitable factory in the sack. At the same time, of course, a lot of people were unemployed. With Caruna in turn, a significant part of our electricity transmission network is in the hands of a foreign operator. Is this the best model to ensure the functioning of electricity distribution in a crisis situation? Is it possible that the maintenance and maintenance of the network will be carried out at the expense of the operation of the euro? There has also been a debate on our groundwater resources and their sales abroad. [The President knocks ]
