ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Legal Committee must deliver an opinion. 30 minutes are set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u2	Mr President, värderade talman! In October last year, the Government submitted a proposal to Parliament to reform the powers of consumer protection authorities. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u5	Mr President! The purpose of this government proposal before us is to supplement the previous government proposal to the extent that the opinion of the Constitutional Committee has required amendments to the legislative proposals on the handling of penalties. Thank you to the Minister for a good presentation. The proposal can therefore be considered to be quite legal, and I believe that it can proceed quickly in committee. Mr President! In this context, however, I would like to say briefly about the importance of the activities of the Consumer Ombudsman of the Competition and Consumer Protection Office. Of course, the consumer ombudsman does important work in many ways. I would now like to highlight one aspect which we in Parliament should pay particular attention to in relation to the resources of the various authorities. Fraud offences against the ageing population have become a major problem undermining the financial security of Finnish everyday life. The number of fraud offences reported to the police up to the age of 65 has increased in all forms from 2010 to 2018, by nearly 200 per cent, and in the case of serious fraud by as much as 215 per cent. In the population as a whole, the growth in various forms of act has been around 50% on both sides. The statistics clearly show how the ageing population is targeted at frauds. Older people are increasingly also subject to fraud in payment instruments, and statistics are made up of the most flagrant cases that end up with the police and the courts. Mr President! The gross forms are their own number, and in general only the tip of the iceberg ends up in the statistics. Even in the case of milder forms of action, many citizens will receive feedback on the concern about the sale of products or services to older people who are not actually needed by an elderly person, or on the disproportionate price or contractual terms of the product or service as such. Traditional Finnish virtue has been thrifty, and this will certainly help to protect those age groups who have built the well-being of this country. Unfortunately, however, skilled impostors may make a credible appeal, for example, to changes in legislation or regulatory regulations as a basis for the purchase of a particular product or service. And when traditional Finnish virtue is also law - abiding, then a citizen may fall into a scam. Mr President! Society must not become one that exploits the gullibility, goodwill or, for example, a weakened memory of another person. I do not know what would be the most effective measure for us here in Parliament to reverse the situation in the right direction, so that fraud against the ageing population can be brought under control. Is it a change of legislation, is it an increase in police resources, is it an increase in the resources of a consumer representative, is it generally an increase in awareness of these problems? Maybe it's all of these. Perhaps the Minister can take a position on this. I believe that we have a duty to secure an economically safe environment for the builders of this country's well-being. The work of the Consumer Ombudsman is therefore also important from this point of view, and I wanted to express my support for this work. So briefly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u6	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. This very government proposal is being discussed, among other things, in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and this supplementary proposal has been awaited. In fact, I would like to make a few comments and comments in response to the Constitutional Committee. As I am no longer a member of it, I may actually be able to criticise the philosophy that has come from there. As the Minister said, so in the future, since this government proposal has been submitted in this form, the issue of prohibitions and penalties cannot be dealt with in the same context. This is now built on this kind of construction that the penalty issue can be postponed in order to get the injunction dealt with when they go into two different processes. The question arose when I read this statement by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and this motion by the government, whether this is a constitutional issue in the sense that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs takes a position on the process in which issues can be dealt with, especially and more so when we have issues to deal with in the various processes. If I am thinking of public authority, it was justified here that when public authority is exercised and public decisions are taken in the name of public authority, then they are generally dealt with in the administrative process, but if I am thinking, for example, of enforcement, then it is traditionally a purely public exercise, but an enforcement appeal is brought to the district court, and then it does not go to the administrative process. I wonder, for example, when, in my own work, I have made decisions to appoint lobbyists: an administrative decision, an appeal to the district court. So we have different models, and in that sense this system becomes a little strange. In my opinion, this initial idea was rational that the issue of prohibition and the matter of penalties could have been dealt with in the same context. In particular, the Constitutional Committee has appealed to Article 21 of the Constitution to ensure that matters are properly and without undue delay dealt with by the competent authority. I cannot quite open this up now, why could this not have happened, even if the administrative process in market law has been applied there and then gone along the same lines. I am not sure why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is here on an adventure. I'm sorry about the further processing. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs called for the possibility of appeal without authorisation. However, in other matters, we also have a permit for further processing before the Court of Appeal on District Courts. Now I no longer know whether the Constitutional Committee is in the role it should be in, i.e. examining whether some acts are unconstitutional or contrary to the Convention on Human Rights, or there on the part of the considerations of intent. But finally, I would like to say that it is a good thing that this matter of legal expenses has been settled. It was an important matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u7	Mr President! As Members have pointed out here, so this is a government proposal, it is now such a supplement, which is then intended to implement these amendments required by the Constitutional Committee in so far as they specifically concern the order in which these penalties are dealt with, and so this law can then be dealt with under the ordinary legislative procedure. In this context, when it comes to market law and the Minister is here, I would have liked to ask: what is the timetable for these complaints to the market law of public procurement at present? As I recall, last week's Question Time brought up this competition by Hansel, in which, first of all, the size of the procurement already excludes all domestic operators from this competition, and here the Minister of Local Government promised to clarify this issue. Of course, errors of this kind, if you could say so, must be resolved at the end of where these public contracts and tenders are going to be made, but then there are also situations in which, in public procurement, these parties who lose out on these tenders, then, on the back of everything, do the appeal process there to market law, and these, at least in previous stages, have blocked market law and it has been impossible to proceed with certain procurements. I would have asked the Minister: what is the current situation with regard to congestion in market law in these matters?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u8	Mr President! Mr Autto has already made an excellent speech here on the work that consumer protection authorities are doing in Finland, and I am pleased to note that attention has also been paid to this situation of older people – they really need protection in many ways now. Here, Mr Autto referred to the fact that we have exploitation, even crimes are committed quite deliberately by exploiting an elderly person in a vulnerable position, and memory disorders in particular are, of course, a big, big challenge. At present we have more than 200,000 people in the statistics who are suffering from memory disorders, and this is still increasing in terms of the gross increase in the number of people with memory disorders by 15,000 a year. These memory disorders are precisely the problem of the elderly: 96% of people with memory disorders are over 65 years old and 80% are over 85 years old; this is clearly the problem of older people. Representative Autto pointed to the fact that older people are even exploited by criminal teams, but it is very typical that relatives are also guilty of this even criminal form of abuse. We are also talking about these care waste, which is in practice being realised by the various types of over-pricing, care fees and so on of the assets of many older people, and this is a serious, big challenge. Minister, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that age discrimination also exists in many products, including consumer authorities. After all, we have the problem with different types of trademarks, the most classic example is shampoo bottles, where the brand and the producer appear with a big one, but the shampoo text is very small, and for older people with a weak close-up, it is really hard to read what is shampoo, which is a different type of body wash or some other gel. In this respect, the product should be more visible, the instructions for use should be clearer for older people. Even though the lids of many cans of cucumbers are already difficult for people with weaker and poor hands. In this respect, products and suppliers should also take into account the fact that not all citizens have the same ability to act. This type of age discrimination, which is often reflected in the product range, should be eliminated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u9	Mr President! That's where the congressman came in. I scream at him when he brought up the elderly and the mentally ill, that is indeed the case that the memory sick are often also targeted by their loved ones. In my work, I have very often encountered situations in which an elderly person is, so to speak, a close relative if I did not say hijacked, but almost. You do not have the ability to decide your own business anymore, you are very unrememberable and depend on another help, so easily your own pension is transferred directly to a close account and you no longer have any chance of affecting your own decisions. Here a few weeks ago I asked — I do not remember whether Question Time or anyone else — about the progress of self-determination, and now I would ask whether the Minister of Justice really knows whether there is any relief on that side, for example, in these cases of guardianship orders where a person is at home and is not available to a doctor. At present, the Local Register Office, or the current Digital Office, has neither the possibility nor the authority to order a person to undergo a medical examination, and here a self-determination law would be the answer. There are situations when we cannot help a person when he is in a situation where powers are needed and there are no powers. Of course, we, on the side of the guardianship act, would sometimes have something to consider. It is a rather unorthodox law that has rarely been addressed, but it should also be updated there. Is there any chance of moving things forward on this side of the ministry, or are they going to move these big government projects forward, such as the reform of the criminal code and this type of thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u10	Mr President! It occurred to me when I listened to these previous speeches that we have discussed issues of great importance — from the point of view of everyday safety — in this context. Mr Kiljunen, for example, very well next door, has just brought up the problems of older people, such as the text of the shampoo bottle and so on, and these are, in fact, everyday problems. President! I have had the opportunity to talk to people many times in recent times, the last time I had a conversation with the public yesterday, a long debate on the feelings of the elderly, for example, today about this digital society and its involvement in it. Many times older people, for example, cannot use these electronic services in the same way as others. For example, according to a bank service survey, only 25% of people over 75 years of age use the Internet in their banking services, and we are sure to understand how much participation and sometimes even fear may be felt by these people who feel they are falling from the digital world. I therefore hope that in some way the government will take a holistic view of what can be done in the various sectors in order to improve these issues – all in all, these problems that have been raised here, as well as these problems in the digital world and others – so that we can also, through this, promote inequality and equality in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u11	Mr President! There does not seem to be much to say about this supplementary proposal itself. Mr Meri said that this is where the Constitutional Committee has done its job, and that is why, as a minister, I am now following the line outlined by the Constitutional Committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has considered in its own opinion: ‘Follow-up payments shall be dealt with in the Internal Market Law in the administrative order. This type of procedure corresponds, inter alia, to the procedure for dealing with competition and procurement penalties and can avoid problems with the legal protection and defence rights of the trader.’ Then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has called for such a change to be made as a condition for this law to be dealt with in the order of the ordinary law, and that is why this supplementary proposal is here today. A very good debate anyway, and perhaps I too am very concerned about the fact that all too often older people, especially today, find themselves in a situation where, for example, a telemarketer calls and perhaps if no one has called for a week or two, it is nice to talk to someone, and then maybe it will happen by accident that something has not been meant. That is why this situation is sometimes used to exploit people’s loneliness or human illness, and even in a deceptive way they want to deprive the elderly of property and money. It is, of course, important that we have effective cooperation between the authorities, that the police act, that we have sufficient resources. As far as consumer protection is concerned, the proposal on which this is based brings considerable improvements to consumer rights. Now that this is progressing in this Parliament, after it has been adopted here, we will have better consumer protection than we have today. That is why this proposal in itself is extremely important. Then there is another directive, for example on telephone sales and home sales, which will have to be implemented next year. In this context, I also have the capacity at the Ministry of Justice now to see clearly whether there is also a need for changes to, for example, telephone sales legislation. I'm sure we can get back to this. I may be able to answer the other questions raised in this debate outside of this sitting. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u12	Mr President! I would like to reiterate what has already been said here that this government proposal is important and good and improves consumer protection. That's the point. I will complete only one statistic so that we can see this problem of digital exclusion. More and more services are being transferred to the Internet, and we genuinely have the situation that we have almost 80% of people over 75 who simply do not have a computer, and these people fall completely outside of online services. Here Mr Viitanen has already referred to online banking services. It is true that 66% of people between the ages of 65 and 75 use online banking services, one third do not. When we go to people over 75 years of age, it is precisely those figures that Mr Viitanen said that 75% of people over 75 do not use online banks. The offices are closed. How do we treat elderly people in this Finnish society? Big problem — let's talk about this in the hallway.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u13	One last speech within the time available.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u14	Mr President! Indeed, it is an extremely good thing and the long-awaited fact that consumer protection in Finland will be strengthened in this regard. Looking at the development of consumer issues in the last few years, as cross-border services and purchases of such cross-border services become more common, even by ordinary line consumers, this aspect will, fortunately, be better taken into account in the future, because it has also revealed these consumer problems, and then the ability of Finnish authorities to tackle them is limited in many respects. Quite often, we parliamentarians really get in touch with the various wrongs and problems experienced by consumers. Mrs Kiljunen spoke very well about the problems faced by older people. Whenever you are in contact with a consumer ombudsman, it is often stated from the consumer ombudsman's office that we do not have enough resources, so I think that it is also appropriate in this Chamber to consider whether the consumer ombudsman has sufficient resources, of course, in addition to the problems that affect the elderly and other Finns, especially with regard to these consumer problems in international purchases and to the advice it provides.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u15	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u16	Mr President! The amendments now proposed to the Unemployment Fund Act are intended to update and update the provisions of the 1984 Unemployment Fund Act, in particular with regard to the functioning of the unemployment fund and the concern for the interests of members. The amendments proposed to the Act are, as a general rule, of a technical nature and some of the provisions raise the provisions previously laid down in the guidelines and regulations for unemployment funds to the level of the law. First of all, the proposal would specify the provisions on the suitability and professional competence of the management of the cashier and align them with other regulations. The conditions for membership of the Board of Directors and the tasks and functions of the Board of Directors of the Treasury and the responsible staff are also to be specified. These amendments strengthen the legal status and transparency of the well-known codes of conduct and models and thus contribute to the everyday functioning of the cashier for the benefit of the members of the cashier. Contrary to the changes described above, the following amendments will be tabled with the knowledge that they would never be applied — and perhaps not, hopefully —: First of all, the law would improve the insurance possibilities for unemployed cashiers in the event of the liquidation of the unemployment fund. This is an important change, as the current law does not guarantee the continued payment of earnings-related unemployment allowance by an unemployed cashier in the event of the cash changeover. The proposal would create the possibility for unemployed cashiers to join another unemployment fund in the event of a cash changeover, but these situations are estimated to be very rare. The proposal would also provide for the use of the assets of the cashier who has been wound up or has been put into bankruptcy. At present, there are no provisions in the law on what should be done with the contributions from members of the unemployment fund if the unemployment fund is dissolved. The rules of the unemployment fund must provide for this, but the law does not even provide a framework for the purpose of the transfer of funds. In practice, the change would concern a situation in which the unemployment fund voluntarily decides to dissolve, i.e. if the financially sound cashier decided to stop operating and stop paying the unemployment allowance to its members. The assets of the winding-up cashier would be transferred to the Employment Fund after the debt and other commitments were fulfilled, which would take account of the funds in the financing of earnings-related security. In addition, the proposal provides for the abolition of certain obsolete provisions and for the repeal of the provision on the reimbursement of the membership fee. The Act is proposed to enter into force from the beginning of 2021. However, it is proposed that the change in the disposal of the cashier's assets and certain technical changes take effect from the beginning of April.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u17	Mr President! Minister! Unemployment must always be prepared, whether an employee or an entrepreneur, and it is important for entrepreneurs to be able to benefit from unemployment. The Unemployment Fund Act is undergoing reform here, but this is not just a small technical change in all its directions. There are not a huge number of entrepreneurial funds, but rather little, and they are certainly not in the millions, but perhaps in the tens of thousands. The role of the entrepreneurship funds has not been taken into account yet, and there has been some feedback on this and it has been raised that, if it were to go bankrupt or be dissolved, as the Minister has just said, the funds would be transferred to the Employment Fund. This raises a few questions about the role of the Employment Fund. When there are entrepreneurs and then employees and such unemployed, what is the role of these entrepreneurship funds? I would like to ask the Minister whether there has been any further thought about this and whether we should look at it more carefully, because it has not been so much raised, at least not yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u18	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Pekonen, for the elegant presentation of this government's proposal. As a general rule, the changes that have been tabled are certainly very welcome and, as the Minister himself said, technical, so that they can certainly move forward quickly in committee, and the real concerns that this proposal raises will certainly also be dealt with carefully in committee and will provide Parliament with a good report on the basis of decision-making. But, Mr President, when I see that not only the Minister for Social Affairs and Health is here, but also the Minister for Employment, if you will allow me, I ask the question that, when, on the basis of the unemployment statistics published today — and we know that employment is, of course, the best social security system and we are all working towards improving employment — many experts believe that we have now seen the so-called structural level of unemployment in terms of employment and, in particular, unemployment, and if we want to move forward with the development of employment and, on the other hand, to reduce unemployment, structural measures are needed, and when the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has presented this major reform of social security, which is an over-election period of reform, and then perhaps on the other hand, but perhaps unduly worried whether all structural reforms will now remain to await this reform of social security, could perhaps give some indication as to what structural reforms are being undertaken to promote employment during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u19	Let's stick to the point of the title.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u20	Mr President! This is where Mr Reijonen raised a very important theme. The social security of entrepreneurs and the income security of entrepreneurs is still at an inadequate level in Finland, if I may say so, and I believe that this overall reform of social security should also look more closely at the social security of small and micro-enterprises and, of course, a slightly larger company and family entrepreneurs and also the social security of family members. There is a lot to develop and move on with. If we want to promote an entrepreneurial-friendly society, it is clear that a certain level of basic security must also be and even better for the entrepreneur. But for this government proposal itself. There are indeed good reforms to strengthen the interests and rights of a member of the unemployment fund, thanks to the Minister for a thorough presentation. When I was a member of the Teachers' Unemployment Fund before becoming a Member of Parliament, I often wondered about this whole package of earnings-related unemployment security. It is good that this legislation is now being developed and brought up to date, but I personally think this way and from the centre's point of view we have been putting forward the idea of extending and improving earnings-related unemployment protection. I think that this should be examined on a tripartite basis, whether more and more people could have the right to earnings-related unemployment benefit: now that it is clear and as we know, earnings-related unemployment benefit, the related contributions are statutory and this responsibility for covering these costs has become increasingly important for Finns. In that sense, I think that it might be appropriate to examine whether earnings-related unemployment benefit could belong to more and more Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u21	Mr President! After all, this bill is largely the kind of technical maintenance of legislation that needs to be done from time to time and which does not arouse great passions. However, there is one change which I would like to draw particular attention to, namely the abolition of compensatory schemes. After all, our earnings-related unemployment security is a combination of solidarity, on the one hand, and cash-based liability, on the other. The solidarity side is represented by the tax-funded share and these equalisation schemes, and this cash-based liability is represented by cash-based payments which are significantly higher in sectors with a high risk of unemployment than in sectors with a low risk of unemployment. Now, if this equalisation system is abolished, it will shift the focus from solidarity to cash-flow, and typically these cashiers, who are now losing out, are the ones whose contributions are even more proportional to the insurance coverage they receive, whose unemployment risk is higher than average and who tend to have a relatively low wage level. That is why I would like to see some sort of compensatory system here that would balance this situation in the opposite direction, because if we at all assume that we have a system of partly shared earnings-related unemployment benefits, it is not fair for some to pay so much more for it than others.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u22	Mr President! As indicated in this previous speech, these changes to the unemployment fund law proposed by the government are mainly of a technical nature and are intended to raise the provisions previously laid down in the guidelines and regulations for unemployment funds to the level of the law. However, I would like to raise just one important point in my own speech. I consider it particularly important that this proposal improves the possibilities for the unemployed members of the unemployment fund to influence the unemployment fund in the event of the dissolution of the unemployment fund by means of a law, which does not safeguard the continued payment of earnings-related unemployment allowance by the unemployed member of the fund in the event of the liquidation of the fund. However, even today, the unemployed member of the cash register would be entitled to Kela's basic daily allowance, which is usually lower than the earnings-related daily allowance. In the event of the dissolution of the government, the unemployed members of the cashier would now be given the opportunity to join another unemployment fund, which would significantly improve the financial situation of the unemployed members.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u23	Mr President! As has been pointed out here, this is largely a question of different technical checks on legislation and, in particular, of a procedure of good governance relating to the management of these funds, but it is new to these procedures relating specifically to the liquidation of the cashier, the winding-up of the cashier and the bankruptcy of the cashier. If it is thought that these cashiers are such private operators who carry out such a public task under the law, then I stayed to think a little about the same thing as that representative of Reijonen before. In other words, if it is a liquidation and bankruptcy, then usually there is nothing to dismantle, but if there is such a liquidation situation, then then transferred to the Employment Fund these assets, what is left. I understand that when the money is collected on the basis of the law specifically for unemployment, then, of course, it seems logical that it should go to the Employment Fund, but then, on the other hand, I stayed to think about this legal fact that these are private operators who, in the case of the establishment of the cashier, have, by their own rules, been able to record something in the rules on the way in which such a possible surplus should be used in the event of liquidation. Well, this has certainly been discussed at the Ministry whether there will be some kind of conflict here, but perhaps even here in the house there is reason to consult experts and wonder whether this civil act is stronger in this kind of situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u24	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for this presentation. In fact, it is quite surprising that these clarifications are only being made now, and one might say that the Financial Supervisory Authority has been up to its task because there have been one of the underlying factors that has provided these clarifications and improvements to this bill. If we go to this substance, then the advantage of our current cash system is that, in a way, employment and collective agreements are linked together, and these funds, if they are union-specific, have expertise in this particular sector in which people are unemployed, but we actually make little use of this expertise, for example in the employment services sector. In Denmark, for example, there are employers who are union and cashier-specific. When considering the means of employment, it would also be worth considering whether some incentives and mechanisms could be found to make use of the know-how these players have in a sector-by-sector context. I, too, am concerned about where Mr Kontula has intervened. It is, in a way, linked to the fact that we have sectors where unemployment and temporary employment vary more easily than elsewhere, which are more cyclically-sensitive sectors, and where unemployment is often more common. That is why there has been a system of compensation, just as there is, for example, between municipalities that are better off and which are less well off, which, as it were, has taken responsibility for these differences in solidarity. Now, if this goes away, we should at least follow its impact on these industries. The third point could be to raise this general collective protection of earnings, which also emerged in the debate. Its cost implications, depending on the economic cycle, would amount to between EUR 200 million and EUR 300 million additional to the unemployment benefit system, i.e. it will have an impact. And it is worth remembering that, at the moment, everyone can join a earnings-related fund, even if it does not belong to a trade union, but I personally hope that everyone will be part of the unions as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u25	Mr President! Some technical issues are being discussed here in relation to the activities of unemployment funds, but now I would like to take advantage of the presence of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health in the light of the fact that I would also ask about the role of unemployment funds in the future. At the moment, the task is essentially to pay income security during unemployment, but if we look at the current employment and unemployment situation and how we should provide individual services to people who are unemployed, could we think that the unemployment funds will have some role to play in the future? In fact, I think that when I have been unemployed a couple of times and I belong to an IAET fund, which is now known as the KOKU, both times have been more useful in helping me find a new job and so on, when I think about their role in relation to the TE Office. In other words, I would assume that they could play a role in the future, because they know their customers quite well in their history and could therefore also help in getting away with the work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u26	Mr President! Here, I think, among other things, that representatives Berg and Essayah have opened up the fact that it is mainly a question of technical changes, as the Minister has said, but, in substance, it is of course an essential innovation here that, in the event of the dissolution of the unemployment fund, bankruptcy or liquidation, a single person will then be able to continue with that income security. This is an important reform, but, of course, I cannot afford not to take the floor here on how perhaps even more far-reaching reforms could be made in this sector in the future, and I also think that Mr Kauman's reflection was good. We need to think about how, in the future, there might be a greater role for these unemployment funds — not necessarily that every cashier should do it, but perhaps a greater role would be possible. But then, of course, there is a very personal reflection which I would like myself, at least personally, that although we have such a system and its changes will of course take a lot of time and are demanding, so openly in the context of this social security reform we would also consider the option of developing in the long term this income security to cover a wider group, as Mr Honkonen said earlier. I think this would be a sensible direction, but I recognize that if you make such changes to this system, then it will certainly require very thorough preparation, reflection and also transition periods. They cannot suddenly be done that next year or even four years from now there would be a system quite dramatically different, but when these are made such technical changes, of course they will be accepted here too, but at the same time there is reason to think all the time about how this system could be improved, and then the focus must be precisely on the possible unemployed person or working person who is a member of the register and wants to prepare for unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u27	Mr President! I asked for another speaker, Mr Filatov, to speak, because he made a good point about this Danish model. When the Christian Democrats made this model of social security reform of their own encouraging basic security, it was precisely this, in Denmark, that these unemployment funds have a major role to play in reemployment of people, and in that sense this idea, which Mr Kauma raised here, certainly deserves to be put on the table when considering this social security reform. And indeed, from Denmark we know this so-called flexicurity model and that, first of all, unemployment benefit is higher at the beginning and then falls much steeper, but it also involves the commitment of the unemployment fund to employ people and also a stronger one, if you would say so, to work for the unemployed from the unemployment fund and expert assistance and the like. In other words, I think it is worth considering this whole thing, and here in Finland, too, we should consider whether there could be a greater role for the bags, and, as Mrs Filatov well said, there is certainly a lot of expertise that will not be exploited at all today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u28	President! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for a very good debate. In this regard, several representatives drew attention to this entrepreneur fund, Mr Reijonen's first speech and many others also followed. I think it is important to note that this possible transfer of funds from the cashiers in the voluntary winding-up of the unemployment fund only takes place on the cashier's own initiative, and this is a situation in which the sound cashier decides to disassemble himself and to stop paying unemployment benefits to the members of the cashier. Since there is only one of these entrepreneurship funds, the situation would be very undesirable for the members of the cashier. This is not a direct intervention in the protection of property, since the initiative to dispose of funds comes from the cashier himself, but it is not a matter of seizing funds. However, as Mr Essayah said, this is something that deserves attention, particularly in the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, I would like to say that the application of this article is likely to be highly unlikely, but it would nevertheless safeguard the purpose of the use of funds for which the funds have been raised. Mr Autto spoke about employment and the reform of social security. Perhaps on that point, I will just say in relation to the reform of social security, to which many speakers have drawn attention, that the reform of social security has been phased out for two parliamentary periods, but it is also possible to bring forward proposals and implement them along the way. It is not the intention to build eight years of a major reform which is suddenly being implemented, so we can immediately move on from there with these proposals. Several speakers drew attention to this right to a earnings-related right. There is a record of this in the Government Programme, i.e. a general earnings-related statement will be made and in accordance with the Government Programme Record. Then, with this abolition of the reimbursement of the membership fee, to which representatives Kontula and Filatov, among others, drew attention: this proposal is based on the initiative of the social partners in June 2019 for the government, and the impact of the reform should be closely monitored, particularly in sectors where unemployment is higher than others, for example for cyclical reasons. This is the background. Then there was also a good debate on the role of unemployment funds, and I think that the role of unemployment funds in providing services should also be considered in the future. It is certainly also worth taking into account the availability of services, which is why I think it is quite obvious that the role of the TE Offices will be central. However, as Mrs Essayah has well said in her own speech, the Committee on Social Security Reform is the committee in which this issue needs to be considered. I am very pleased that we will soon get this committee work going and think about the reform in more detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u29	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u30	Mr President! This Government proposal proposes to amend the Act on Public Employment and Business Services and the Act on Multisectoral Joint Employment Service. The proposal concerns the customer information system of the Employment and Economic Development Office, which consists of a personal customer register, an employer register and a service provider register. The proposal also applies to the customer register of the cross-sectoral joint service — known as the TUPPI register — which is a sub-registration of the personal customer register. The legislation on the processing of personal data has substantially changed since the entry into force of the EU General Data Protection Regulation in May 2018. The current provisions on the customer information system of the TE Office are not fully in line with the General Data Protection Regulation and will therefore be amended through this Act. The General Data Protection Regulation imposes responsibilities and obligations on the controller, i.e. the controller is responsible for ensuring that the principles for the processing of personal data laid down in the Data Protection Regulation have also been complied with. The controller shall be identified as an entity which effectively exercises control over the controller and can carry out the obligations of the controller. According to the law currently in force, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Employment and Economic Development Offices are the controllers of the customer information system. In practice, however, on behalf of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the tasks of the controller have long been carried out by the so-called KEHA Centre, which is the development and administration centre of the Ely Centres and TE Offices. The Ministry is only responsible for steering and monitoring the customer information system at its strategic level. Therefore, since the Ministry of Employment and the Economy no longer has a real role to play in the processing of customer data, this proposal proposes that the KEHA Centre and the TE Offices should be the joint registry administrators of the customer information system of the TE Office. According to the sharing of responsibilities between controllers, the KEHA Centre would be responsible for the building-in and default data protection referred to in the General Data Protection Regulation, the security of the processing of personal data and the information security of the information system. The personal customer information of the labour administration is classified under the Publicity Act. It is therefore very important to ensure the proper processing of personal data in public employment and business services and in cross-sectoral co-services. The provisions currently in force would therefore be clarified and supplemented by a comprehensive regulation of access rights to the customer information system. The proposal proposes that the KEHA Centre should grant access to the customer information system on request and that the use of the customer information system should always require personal access. The laws would set out in detail the tasks for which access could be granted. Access should be limited in terms of content, scope, powers and duration to what is necessary for the performance of the person’s duties. The KEHA Centre would be responsible for tasks related to the management of access rights and the collection of log data. The KEHA Centre should remove access if the conditions for granting are no longer met or if the information entered in the customer information system has been processed in breach of the provisions. The right of access should be amended if the concession granted no longer corresponds to the purpose for which it was granted. The time limits for storing this stored data would also be harmonised and the total storage period would be reduced from five to four years. As a general rule, the KEHA Centre should delete data from the customer information system four years after the end of the customer relationship. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u31	Mr President! Indeed, this European Union Data Protection Regulation has led to measures in many different administrative areas, and I must say that I have not been terribly satisfied with these consequences in that regard, because many third-sector actors — associations, non-governmental organisations — in particular — have encountered difficulties in meeting these requirements of the Data Protection Regulation. But as far as these employment services and this personal data protection and these registers are concerned, this disclosure of customer information has long been talking a lot in this field, and I myself met the staff of the employment unit in a small town in Central Finland. Now that, in recent years, the responsibility for these employment services has increased, on the one hand, to the municipalities, but also to this excellent project of the government, this experiment in employment, now that many municipalities have a real responsibility for these employment promotion services, I believe that this issue is even more topical. These employment service professionals, whom I met, said quite frankly that the reason for us — this municipality — to apply for this employment experiment is that the TE Office did not provide these customer information to the extent that it would have been possible to promote the employment of these people. In other words, the cooperation between municipalities and the labour force and economic development offices has not yet worked well enough. With the Minister here, I would like to hear a little more from this point of view that how, in this new employment experiment model, this will work out and how better to promote this information in the future, so that the services of the unemployed and job seekers in Finland can actually be done well and new work is done.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u32	Mr President! This bill, too, mainly includes ordinary lawmaking, and the reforms themselves are quite welcome, although of course the question arises as to whether the EU needs to tell Finland that the health data of the unemployed must also be logged when the health data of all others have been logged for years. However, what I have drawn attention to here once again is an automated decision-making process. According to the Government's proposal, the digital service needs assessments and employment plans were deleted after the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, due to the fact that it was considered preferable to wait for general guidelines on how automated decision-making can be implemented in a way that is safe for fundamental rights. Well, we know that labour market mobility is increasing all the time and digitalisation is increasing in the labour market, which means that there is quite a lot of pressure for our employment services to be able to use it too, with a totally different volume than at present, including automated decision-making. Of course, it is not just a question of employment services; it is also a question of organising our social security systems, of organising our taxation, of many other things in our administration. And that is why I would like to take this opportunity to speed up an ongoing study at the Ministry of Justice on the conditions and conditions for automated decision-making, so that we can move our regulatory practices to the level required by this time and technological development.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u33	Mr President! As has already been said here, this change is very technical and leaves the demands of the European Union. But in this context, I would like to ask the Minister about a current legal project such as the tests on employment in relation to this right to information. Mr Honkonen has already brought this up here in the debate. Since the municipality does not even have the right to receive personal data from the customer information system of the TE Office at the moment, and in some municipalities the employment of unemployed job seekers will indeed be transferred to it by the municipalities through these municipal trials, so now that the Minister is present in this Chamber debate, I ask the Minister whether or not it is intended to provide for separate provisions in connection with the Municipal Experiment Act which would change the current situation regarding the right of municipalities to receive information about the TE Office's customer information system, since that is a necessity after these municipal experiments start in the municipalities next autumn?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u34	Mr President! This is indeed about the impact of data protection on employment and business services. I myself would like to take a little look at the procedure of extending this debate very arbitrarily to a very far-reaching extent, but I think that, now that the title is on this business and employment services, we can also put forward a slightly more general view of this issue. After all, we just received recent employment rates data from January, and the figure was 72.1. In order to illustrate it, a year ago in January the corresponding figure was 70.6, in January 18 69,3, in January 2017 67,0 — and we always have to go to January 1990 to get a higher figure than this one. At that time it was 72.9, of which it fell to less than 60 percent by the time of the recession. Of course, employment is an absolutely essential issue and employment services and business services have a role to play, but if you try to summarise for one minute what is the overall picture, then of course the most important thing is the economic cycle. We all know that there are worrying aspects of the international economic cycle today, and I am not just referring to this recent corona epidemic, but to the things that have been in sight for a long time. At present, positive employment developments depend largely on domestic demand. It is affected by the income left in the hands of people, whether it is a pension or, for example, wages and salaries and other income. But there was a good or bad cycle, so of course competitiveness is essential, because, of course, in relation to our competitors we get either an advantage or a disadvantage. And in terms of competitiveness, our ability to innovate is essential, and it is linked to our competence. Then we actually come to these employment and business services which we are trying to solve this problem. After all, we are now in a worrying situation where there is a need for labour at the same time and, in fact, a relatively high rate of 6.7% unemployment, even though this employment rate is good. In this respect, everything that can now be done by means of municipal trials or automated information, for example, is essential, and in that sense this technical legislative reform in itself is, of course, a step forward in its own way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u35	Mr President! Here, representatives of Honkonen and Taimela have raised the problem of municipalities well, which is currently the desire to provide various services for the unemployed, i.e. the TE Centres do not provide information on the unemployed in their own municipality. My concern is the same as that of my colleagues here, which is that now that this municipal experiment really starts — of course it would have been hoped that it would have started already this spring, but if it moves to that autumn, then it will — at that point it is absolutely necessary for the municipalities to be informed of the unemployed who are in the region. In fact, from the point of view of municipalities, who then have to pay long-term unemployed Kela fines, it would be extremely important that at that stage it should be possible to know who is falling into long-term unemployment, so that the municipality would then be ready to provide those services and support measures. In that way, of course, then it would be less money for the municipality, but, above all, it would be humanly right to help those people before they come to a situation where their livelihood will also be reduced as unemployment benefit decreases. In that sense, this issue is central to the fact that this reform is now also intended to improve the opportunities for municipalities. I listened to the Minister's speech and you said about the KEHA Centre, which would provide these rights of use. Apparently, this is now in this law the operator who could also provide municipalities with this specific information. Last autumn, or the other autumn, in North Karelia, the mayor of Juua, Markus Hirvonen, who has become the father of mopeds and many other good ideas, wondered that when a recryms fair is held in the municipality and was the idea that entrepreneurs are now being made to face the unemployed, they will be shielded from getting the necessary information about the unemployed who are in the municipality’s territory. It is quite incomprehensible that we, as if data protection, protect the fact that the unemployed person does not receive the services that he needs and which the municipality would be happy to provide.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u36	Mr President! Many good speeches have been made here. I would like to start with what Mr Essayah has just said. Not only for municipal trials, but also for the various services that municipalities could and should offer to the unemployed, especially the long-term unemployed, it is necessary and at least useful for the municipality and the municipality to be aware of these long-term unemployed people. I do not understand the idea that it is particularly important to protect that information is not passed on from the secretarial authorities to other secretive authorities, because, for example, the authorities in the municipal social services are just as secretarial as those in the labour and economic sectors, for example. Mr Kontula also made a very good speech, and it is a pleasure this time to agree with him on this particular automated decision-making process and on how to speed it up. After all, in the context of the draft law on automated decision-making by the Finnish Immigration Service, the Constitutional Committee stated that we need a general law setting out more broadly these conditions and conditions for automated decision-making. Now, I hope that this general law will indeed be speeded up in the Ministry of Justice, because, among other things, the tax authorities have said that they need a considerable number of additional people to work if they cannot use automated decision-making, as is currently the case, which appears to be somewhat problematic in terms of current legislation. I also wanted to emphasise specifically that I believe that the government has done a good job in developing employment services and in providing more resources to the employment administration. Indeed, it is necessary and effective that the unemployed, especially those who have been unemployed for a long time, should be able to catch up and provide them with a more personal service and see more precisely what kind of service they would need in order to be able to find employment. To this end, it is good to agree with Mr Lindén's view that, in addition to these good reforms to the employment administration, many other measures which are capable of improving employment and which are still expected of the government, are absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u37	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz thanked the government for investing in employment services, and I think it would be good to continue this line of thanks at the beginning of the week. This government, as well as the previous one in the centre, the National Coalition Party and the Finnish People's Government, has understood how important it is for the future of this country to invest in employment services. The European Data Protection Directive poses a lot of challenges, particularly for the third sector, as has been said here in the past, but also a lot of opportunities. As far as employment services are concerned, I am very pleased that we are now investing in the opening up of these data reserves and aware that not only the Employment and Economic Development Offices and cities, perhaps in the future, but also someone else, a third-sector actor, will benefit from the fact that information is moving faster and the supply of work is working and, on the other hand, the workers will also meet better. At the same time, it is important to take care of information security, not to give too much information on the one hand, but not to conceal information on the other hand, and, as has been said here before, it would be possible for that information to pass between the authorities responsible for secrecy. What is essential here is not only to secure individual security — to provide information when it is meant to be provided, but also to protect people’s own data — so understands the change in the workforce or rather the current situation — the need for people to get a job, to be at work, to be unemployed or to have another change in the life situation — which means that we need more rapid data movement. I am pleased to note here that the Minister and the Government have been aware of this and that, at last and finally, we are investing in this, so that our interfaces are broken while at the same time taking care of the individual's own protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u38	Mr President! Thank you for this presentation to the Minister. It was a good presentation. I myself asked for the floor, in fact, because this is not an extension of the right to information to the municipalities, it is actually a question of collecting that right. At the moment, when the elyts and TE Offices have been able to give access to this information, it now goes to the KEHA Centre and the KEHA Centre is the one who can give it the information right and can be given if there is an assignment that comes from KEHA, Ely or TE Office. So this is quite a process, and when we know that many times such permits are delayed if there are not enough resources, I hope that the Ministry will take special care to ensure that this does not happen. It is, in itself, justified that the KEHA Centre keeps a register and grants those permits, because it can also do the controller's obligations better than if they were in all TE Offices or elsewhere. When the municipal experiment comes, I hope that it will genuinely reflect on who the people to whom that information should be given are, because we know that it would make the service smoother — even in this Chamber we have now used those examples — to make the service smoother many times if the information were also available in the municipality to the people who work with the unemployed. At the same time, it is extremely important to ensure data protection. For example, it was a surprise to me that if you visit VR's website and buy a serial ticket with a number, the information goes to the American auctioneer, who then trades advertising with that information, even though it is our VR website. Many times things happen in the background here that we do not see, and when the services of the TE administration are developed more electronically, it is extremely important to ensure that the individual's data remains where they are known to be and do not go out to the world for different, sometimes vague, uses.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u39	Mr. Speaker! In this respect, Mrs Filatov was very grateful to have told us how problematic this process can be in many cases. The EU Data Protection Regulation has created a wide range of complications for us and hopefully at some point they will be made straight so that it will genuinely benefit us in these employment services. However, I would like to add one more point to this debate that we both have rights and obligations for the authorities and for unemployed job seekers, and I hope that they will be taken into account here as a whole, so that this whole process is flexible and appropriate. Local government trials have been referred to here a few times. I myself come from the city of Jämsä in central Finland, where this joint venture is made in social services with the city and a private company. There we have come up against this same issue of the right to information a few times: the agreement obliges the joint venture to be employed, but it has not been possible to give information on who might be employed and many other obstacles. I hope that this multiplicity of problems will also take into account this diverse cooperation and information with our private partners. Our common goal is certainly to employ people, and hopefully there will not be any more barriers on our own to ensure that this information cannot be kept smoothly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u40	Mr President! I now have to disagree almost with all the previous speakers. In my opinion, the problem of information for municipalities is only a problem if we want to make the administration over and over people. If you are asked whether your information is to be given to this person and to that person, you can give that consent and there is no problem with it. The problem arises only if you do not want to meet people, talk to people, work with them. Such an administrative culture I would rather see in history than be encouraged and promoted in particular. If the problem now is that the report of the registration fair cannot be made available to the unemployed in the municipality, then I am very surprised. It is one phone call to the TE Office, where it takes 10 minutes from the official to send a text message to all unemployed people in the region about the registration fair. If he doesn't do it, he won't do his job properly, because it's exactly the core job of the TE Office to send a notice if there's a recryms fair in the area. If these are the problems encountered without the right to information, then it is more of a problem elsewhere than in those rights of information. If I personally fell ill with diabetes, for example, which is the kind of information that could be found in my labour policy data, then I would not want my sister or my librarian mother in Tampere to check it out in any register, but I would like to tell them myself. We have so many issues in these registers that it is perfectly justified that they should be protected even when it comes to secret authorities, because we know — this is a matter that has been tested on many occasions, we have numerous examples since Mika Myllylä's case — that these secretive authorities are just as curious people as others. Then, when we are in a small municipality with perhaps 5,000 or 10,000 inhabitants, surely one of your mother-in-laws or your ex-girlfriends works there and follows your affairs from there. In other words, I would prefer to take this exchange of information with restraint, firstly because there is no need for exchange of information if the person himself is at the heart of the action, and secondly because civil servants are also human beings. And at least as long as that log does not work well, so long there is no need for extensions here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u41	Mr President! It is good that such legislative proposals to promote employment come from the government and I would like them to be even more effective in the future. This, too, is a good performance, and I believe the government is improving its running all the time. It would be important to note in all future actions, including this experiment of local government employment starting next autumn, that municipalities are genuinely and very strongly promoting employment in their own region. It's not like you don't have to be in control and support. I do not think that it would be possible to achieve better results centrally. Of course, it has already been tried, but there has been no more results than what has been seen so far. It would now be important to note in the state administration that we have a huge number of different business projects in different municipalities. Investing in and mobilising these would be the real way to create genuine new jobs. Each of us knows that the employment measures carried out with tax resources are usually fixed-term. Of course, they also have their own value, and I do not underestimate them, but that we could get them on top of all the fuss that these companies would be doing real jobs. For example, on the renewable energy side, we have cleantech, no matter what. There are thousands of ideas for entrepreneurs — I know of my own friends and acquaintances who have many good business ideas. They must be given the relevant state subsidies and, above all, the red tape so that future authorisations and projects can be mobilised. There billions of investments are currently awaiting the right decisions. I therefore hope, now that the Minister is here, that rapid progress will be made in this vicious circle, where investment will not come from when bureaucracy demands its own flowers and there will be no investment and construction. Secondly, there has now been much talk of having a workforce in Finland, a labour force from abroad, when we have a huge shortage of labour, even though we are unemployed. Next summer we will have a time when, for example, strawberry fields and many other such sectors will find it extremely difficult to obtain labour from the domestic labour market. Now that the Minister is here, how can we speed up the procedures for work permits in this area? How do we get those domestic products out of the field — berries, fruit, whatever they are picking up and doing many, many other jobs — to these when they are not able to get the labour force from Finland? How is it now speeded up to get these domestic berries moving? Because if we do not get them moving, then it will lead to our processing not working and, at worst, we will start importing the same products from abroad. There is only a difference between imported products from abroad and the fact that they have a slight increase in the use of pesticides in the form of different types of pesticides.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u42	Mr President! Let me say to Mr Hoskonen that we are probably on the same page here that new jobs are specifically for the private sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u45	Mr President! There were many questions here, and the question of municipal trials and the right to information was specifically asked. So at the moment, this right of information does not exist. Only the TYP Act has the right to access this information to the municipalities where the municipal official operates in the activities under the TYP Act and in its entirety, i.e. in these cross-sectoral joint service systems. Now, in connection with this municipal experiment, what will be done, the intention is that, when the municipality is not entitled to access this information at the moment, then now the municipality trial law under preparation should specifically provide that a municipal official is entitled to access the information when he performs the tasks assigned to him under this pilot law on behalf of the TE Office. In other words, the municipality would be a processor within the meaning of the General Data Protection Regulation during this experiment, i.e. would therefore be able to access this information. There would then be access to this career system in the municipalities, in which there are job seekers' data and also company data, i.e. information about companies that are recruiting employees. This is now the purpose of this municipal experiment. Then the log and the fact that it had to be in order mentioned Kontula. The KEHA Centre is now also responsible for collecting the customer information system's log data and related tasks, and also the customer information system, this personal data system, is a log, which means that the log data can then be used to determine who has stored or viewed personal data and is of course important for the protection of the individual's personal data. In other words, the purpose of the municipal trials is to ensure that the authorities have smooth access to the information and that the information can be used in the work in which the municipalities now have a role to play. This piece of legislation will then be presented later, but this is now the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u46	One speech may be made within the time limit that has yet to be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u47	Mr. Speaker! Now we're back to normal, so I disagree with Mr. Kontula. It is certainly true, and we know from the trials that there are too many curious policemen and social servants who are inquiring about the information of their ex-husband's current wife, and so on, but I personally think that we cannot set up the whole legislation in this regard on the basis of the fact that we have people who commit crimes. And when you mention, for example, relatives who work in a social welfare office or in a library, the right to this information does not mean, of course, that anyone who works in a municipality can look at it, but that is the principle of purpose-dependence, which means that an official may exercise his rights only for the purpose for which he has been granted. That, of course, already means that such unjustified, unjustified peeking must not take place. In other words, I think it is important that information between the authorities is passed and that people can be helped, and that would be the intention, for example, for the social services of the municipality to be entitled to this information for the unemployed in that context. Of course, a kind of flower from this current situation, which prohibits the further disclosure of information to secretive authorities, was the law that was passed here a few years ago, which gave Kela the right to give municipal social services the right to the information of military veterans in the municipality to whom they are present in order for the municipalities to be able to help these people. It therefore required a separate law in this Parliament so that the municipal social services could know which veterans were in the municipality so that they could help them. Mr Hoskonen raised the question of this international recruitment, and I agree with what Mr Hoskonen said. And I would stress to Minister Hatainen that it will not help you to transfer these matters from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of the Interior for work-related recruitment, if you do not address the problems that really cause these delays, such as the insufficient resources of the Finnish Immigration Service. In other words, give Migri more resources, and it will certainly be the best way to speed up the processing of both these work-related and other applications for residence permits and asylum applications.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u48	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u49	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u50	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 1/2020 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u51	Mr President! The Climate Act, which entered into force in June 2015, is the first national act to define the long-term guidelines and objectives of Finland’s climate policy in general and to provide for a climate policy planning system. The Climate Act established the basis for long-term and cost-effective planning and monitoring of climate policy. Now the new Commission of the European Union also intends to propose a first European climate law aimed at making Europe climate neutral by 2050, and now these procedures can be enshrined in the legislation. This annual climate report now under discussion is therefore the first of its kind and the first report in accordance with the Climate Act to Parliament. This is a major event. From now on, Parliament will receive an annual report on how greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced. We have produced this report in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on which we received the opinions of three other committees: the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Transport and Communications. I would like to thank you for the statements we have received. They were very deep-seated and very useful. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also welcomes the fact that the report before us does not disappear as part of the ordinary annual report of the government, but rather as a separate report and therefore receives the attention it deserves. Climate change is now something that has to do with everything. Work must be done in all regions to achieve the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. The purpose of the climate report is to increase Parliament's participation in the shaping of climate policy. First of all, Parliament will discuss all the legal plans for climate policy, i.e. the medium- and long-term strategies for Parliament, and the adaptation strategy and then the annual report on climate change, which will report on the actions taken. It is always worth remembering that the annual report, whether it be the annual climate report or the annual report prepared by the government for the city council, always looks back to the past, but understanding the past is a good basis for building the future. This is important because, now that these measures are being carried out in all sectors and affect everyone, information is therefore extremely important. On the other hand, as the committee points out, the debate in Parliament on social justice and the legitimacy of climate policy is very important. During this debate, the committee heard 15 different experts, and we had good discussions, and it resulted in this excellent report, which I think is very good quality. The report shows that Finland has so far done a good job with its climate policy. We have achieved the emission reduction target set for the 2013-2020 burden-sharing sector. Current efforts to achieve the objectives set for the period 2021 to 2030 are no longer sufficient; further reductions are needed and have already been identified in the medium-term climate plan. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection considers it important to develop the annual climate report in such a way that it looks at climate policy as a whole and allows the development of all emissions to be examined. After all, the report now only concerns the burden-sharing sector outside the emissions trading sector. Parliament's greetings to the government are therefore that the report should be developed to the extent that the implementation of the measures is in line with the tightening objectives and what action is needed to achieve the desired development path. This also requires a change to the Climate Change Act in this respect. Mr President! In this way, the report will provide the best possible basis for social debate in Parliament and for promoting social justice, coherence, cost-effectiveness and long-term climate policy. Climate policy must enable Finland and strengthen our national economy. Let us not allow the opposite development. Finland is a big country, we all know that. It clearly requires transport infrastructure and a sensible transport policy. Of course, traveling requires some kind of transportation. At the same time, Finland is a very northern country. Buildings, apartments, schools, libraries must be heated, and that means some emissions at all times. Similarly, what I think is too little attention is the standard of living in Finland. We are a fully export-dependent welfare state, which means that when we produce products, emissions are always generated. It must be taken into account in every decision that we are not going to harm this circle of positiveness. In my opinion, the strengthening of carbon sinks has been overlooked in this climate debate. Let me take two examples. First of all, we ourselves already have a MY diesel developed by Neste Corporation, which is an emission-free diesel made entirely of domestic raw materials. If we were to introduce it, even with a slight change to the tax system and, of course, with a licence from the EU, we could reduce our emissions by some 5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. It is entirely possible if we want to do so, so there are ways. Secondly, I think that a better way is to increase the growth of forests. I was here a few nights ago in an interesting lecture where Scientists at the Natural Resources Center presented us with interesting information as a group. A few figures make it very clear, Mr President: In 2009-2013, the 11th National Forest Inventory was carried out in Finland. According to the comparison between the volume of wood currently in Finland and the number of trees in 2014-2018, there is a difference of more than 100 million cubic metres. According to the measurement in 2018, Finland's forests had 2475 million mots of wood, which means that the annual growth in this five-year period was on average 20 million mots and our carbon sink grew every single year. So this is a huge opportunity for us. Perhaps another illustrative example is that in 1990 the number of trees in Finland was 1900 million. 1900 million mots in 1990, if at that time the growing of trees had stopped for some strange reason or we were calculating so theoretically, and the fellings between 1990 and 2017 were the same 1900 million mots, i.e. the 18-year fellings and the 1990 number of trees are the same. So if the forests didn't grow, the end would have come to us in 2017, the year of Finland's independence, but surprise, in 2018, we had almost 2,500 million sticks of wood. We have been given a huge diamond for our treatment, a huge carbon sink that we must handle well, and that is what we have done. That is why we should not always talk about emissions, emissions and emissions. Let us talk for the next ten years about carbon sinks, carbon sinks, carbon sinks and so on, because improving them is a thousand times cheaper, more efficient and better for us. There is no need for citizens to suffer at all, and at best we are doing this nation the service of not being unemployed; no one is going to suffer because of this; we have a great opportunity. Let us not spoil it with wrong political decisions. This is my core message. Climate policy must be wise. It must not in any way rule out our own national possibilities. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for their excellent work. We heard a lot of good experts, we had a good conversation. I would like to thank the other committees and Parliament for their good support, which has been the first of its kind, that is, if someone says that this was not very good, then next year we will have the opportunity to do even better. But we're on the right track, as long as we don't lose our own diamond and ruin it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u52	Mr President! Thank you to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for a good The proposal for a more strategic and comprehensive annual report on climate change is very much to be welcomed. The current annual report, which is limited to the burden-sharing sector and technical reporting, is, of course, commendable as it is, but it could be a much more effective contributor to the climate policy debate and a report on the broad package of climate policy and emissions developments. A few observations and conclusions should also be drawn from the content of the annual report itself. Transport and agriculture are the main sources of emissions in the burden-sharing sector. The development of both emissions has been worrying over the last few years. Transport emissions have decreased only marginally, and agriculture has virtually no effect. Two things need to be taken into account in both cases: there are ways to reduce emissions, but in both cases we must ensure that the reduction of emissions is both timely and fair. The political debate should not now revolve around whether or not emission reductions should be made — of course, a different line is irresponsible, contrary to science and the future — but around how this will be achieved in a fair, efficient and fair manner and what measures it will require. Transport accounts for about one fifth of Finland’s emissions. About half of this comes from passenger cars and less than one third from lorries. As a result, road transport, and in particular passenger cars, is inevitably subject to emission reductions. Fortunately, passenger car transport is also the part of transport where both technological and behavioural solutions can be found most easily. The renewal of the car fleet is often highlighted as one way. However, newer cars will not help if they are bigger or more driven. The Finnish fleet of cars is relatively old in European terms. Indeed, the often repeated proposal to reduce emissions is a change in taxation so that the car fleet is rapidly reformed. It's all right. It's all right. Emissions from new cars really are lower than the average old ones. At the same time, however, emissions have stalled all the way, as there are more cars and they have been driven more. In addition, the average emissions of newly registered diesel cars actually increased between 2017 and 18. It is therefore crucial to guide the procurement of new cars into very low-emission cars in the future. Biofuels are often presented as a solution. Their ultimate challenge is not demand, but supply. Produced biofuels do sell well, but there are limited quantities of sustainable raw materials. Biomass is simply not enough to replace all fossil transport fuels if – and hopefully when – we want to save land for food production, carbon sinks and biodiversity conservation and use biomass as a raw material for products. However, sustainable biofuels are needed, but if you have to take a car at all, then an electric car is an eco-make. Electricity mobility is significantly more energy efficient than incineration, and emissions are only generated in the manufacture of cars and electricity generation in practice. Although the emissions from the manufacture of electric cars are on average higher than the corresponding internal combustion engine car, the electric car quickly shuts down the fossil car during use. The weight of the car, regardless of its propulsion, is in this crucial part. It is in itself straightforward to produce electricity at low emissions. The ethical problems of the mining industry required by battery production are quite true and need to be addressed, but the problem is not limited or focused solely on car batteries, but on the structures of global production chains and extractive business in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u55	Mr President! The Climate Act, which entered into force in 2015, laid the foundations for the long-term planning and monitoring of Finland’s climate policy. The Climate Annual Report 2019 is the first of its kind. It is good that we have a separate independent document on the implementation of climate objectives. According to the report, the emission reduction targets for the burden-sharing sector set by the current law by 2020 are in the process of being met. And, of course, it is a pleasure to note that it can be shown that the setting of the target and the measures chosen will achieve results in Finland. The burden-sharing sector covered by the report includes emissions from transport, agriculture, separate heating of buildings and waste management. The emissions trading sector for industry and energy production is EU-wide and its reporting does not include the land use sector. The development of EU legislation in the land use sector also requires the inclusion of climate law as agreed in the Government Programme. It is also natural to update the scope of the annual climate report when revising the law. The limit between emissions trading and the burden-sharing sector is also changing, which reduces the relevance of the sector-specific review and justifies the need for the report to be developed in the direction of the overall emissions review. Therefore, the climate report does not at present provide a comprehensive picture of the current state of the overall emissions. The Marin Government has committed itself to the objective of carbon neutrality by 2035 and to achieving negative emissions shortly thereafter. It would therefore be essential in future to examine the success of this objective, the effectiveness of the overall emissions, i.e. the overall climate policy package and the adequacy of the measures taken, and to build analyses for further action. As climate action increases and the economic contribution made to it increases, it is also increasingly important to monitor social justice indicators. In addition to the effectiveness of climate action, the coherence of the various measures must also be considered. It is good to follow not only domestic measures but also what we do in the world. There may also be potential in this. In view of the current situation, it is clear that the global target level of emission reductions is insufficient to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Climate change is a global phenomenon and the reduction of emissions anywhere has the same effect. Finland can achieve a great deal at international level through its technical or financial solutions. The objectives have already been tightened up at EU level and should be further strengthened in order to implement the Paris Agreement. Mr President! The achievement of Finland's carbon neutrality target by 2035 requires significant further efforts in all sectors. These are found in the Government Programme in areas such as taxation, transport, agriculture, energy production and land use. Climate-Vuosaari’s important result was the emission reduction targets allocated to different sectors, i.e. a kind of carbon budget. On this basis, sectoral measures can be drawn up and selected and the achievement of the objectives monitored. The clearest approach would be to tackle effectively the major sources of emissions. Emissions from peat combustion are in the order of seven million tonnes of carbon dioxide, i.e. equivalent to emissions from the whole of passenger car transport alone. What are you going to do? ] The energy and climate strategy and the Climate Act are good opportunities to increase the share of renewable energy in Finland's energy production. The target volume of wind power construction should be increased to at least 30%. [Juha Mäenpää’s interlude] In addition to reducing emissions, as the chairman of our Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, Mr Hoskonen, mentioned here, we need to increase carbon sinks that are binding on emissions. In practice, carbon sinks refer to forests whose trees and soil absorb carbon dioxide from the air. Ollikainen, Chairman of the Climate Panel, was concerned about the annual variation in carbon sinks in the land use sector, for example due to large open fellings. In 2018, the net sink of the land-use sector was only minus 9.8 megatonnes instead of the previous minus 21.4 megatonnes. Such annual fluctuations can completely water down Finland's objective of carbon neutrality. In other words, the net sink is far too small at the moment and should be greatly increased if we really want to achieve the objective of carbon neutrality in 2035.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u56	Mr President! Climate change is mankind's greatest threat. It is also a major threat to biodiversity. This government is taking the climate crisis seriously. The aim is to be the first fossil-free welfare society by 2035 and carbon-negative soon thereafter. We now have a first annual climate report in accordance with the Climate Change Act. It is an important tool for reporting and monitoring climate and energy policy, which allows Parliament to regularly address key issues of climate policy. This winter, which never came south, reminds us that climate change is progressing at a worrying and increasing pace. We know that ecological restructuring is urgent if we want to implement it in a controlled manner. It is therefore important that the Government reform the climate law so that it steers Finland sufficiently firmly towards the 1.5-degree path and carbon neutrality by 2035. Mr President! Climate change is the greatest challenge of our time. The Government is committed to implementing climate action in a socially and regionally fair way. This means that we support the people and regions in which careers and the structure of the economy will change. Climate change must be turned into an opportunity rather than a threat. The Greens' just adopted Fair Change Programme offers ways of reducing emissions, poverty and inequality at the same time. In a fair change, the most vulnerable will not be the ones paying for climate action. Sustainable consumption choices must be made possible for everyone. There are also sleeves wrapped in the EU. The European Green Development Programme is a comprehensive package for the fair implementation of EU eco-structural change. The aim is to make the EU the first climate-neutral continent by 2050. In this change, Finland should be in the vanguard. Mr President! One important issue that has been very much publicised is the abandonment of the use of peat for energy purposes. The change shall be carried out in a controlled manner in such a way as to replace peat with energy production methods and, where appropriate, to provide support for replacement investment in equipment. Clear steps and timetables must be decided for the abandonment of peat in the same way as for the disposal of coal. This is also what the operators in the peat sector are now waiting for. According to the Government Programme, the energy use of peat will be at least halved by 2030. A fair transition is that the state supports operators in the peat sector in re-training and creating new jobs. The diversity of regions must be taken into account in the fight against climate change. Solutions look different in large cities and small rural areas. For example, the reduction of transport emissions in cities can focus on the development of public transport, the strengthening of urban structures and the price control of private cars, for example by means of congestion charges. [Right : No! ] Mr President! The Annual Climate Report is an important tool for monitoring and ensuring that the Government is moving in the right direction and fast enough in its climate action. The climate law planning and reporting system currently covers emissions from transport, agriculture, separate heating, machinery, waste treatment and F-gases. When the law was adopted, it was considered that it was justified to limit the part of climate policy that can be managed by domestic legislative measures. The alarming pace of climate change has brought about the need to develop the annual report in a more comprehensive, strategic and forward-looking direction. This is not only effective and clear, but also strengthens the social justice of climate policy. It is important to include emissions trading and land use sectors in the climate report. In addition, emissions from consumption must be considered. In any case, the boundaries of the sectors are somewhat volatile. Most of the emissions from Finland's consumption are generated in households, and households' emissions from consumption are also on the increase. For example, Sweden has already developed monitoring and reporting on consumption-related emissions, which is also modelled on Finland. Reliable indicators for emission reductions also need to be further developed. Energy and climate policy must be based on researched knowledge and reasoned assessments of policy costs and other impacts. Mr President! Like the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I call for a forward-looking approach to emissions reporting. It is important to examine how the implementation of climate action responds to the tightening objectives and what action is required to reduce emissions as agreed. The key to the effectiveness of both emissions and sink policies is the long-term and coherent nature of actions. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the Committee on the Environment to the fact that, in addition to Finland's carbon footprint, it is necessary to look at the carbon footprint of our country, i.e. the positive impact of our climate action. The fight against climate change offers Finnish companies great business opportunities, which are worth taking full advantage of.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u57	Mr President! Climate change can be distressed. Climate change can also be reduced, or it can be solved. The central line is to solve common problems. There is also much talk of ambition, and I think that ambition in itself is all right — of course it must be ambition to move things forward. However, in my opinion, at least as important is a genuine common sense. You see, all decisions have consequences in the everyday lives of people and also companies. The consequences of decisions, both bad and good, can be seen quickly, as a happy example of a new, glorious wooden school, which will take place on the municipal parade site in place of that old scoundrel. The effects of the decision can also be seen slowly, as has been seen in global warming. At the same time, we need a policy to reduce emissions and create new jobs and entrepreneurship in Finland. This is the road we're on now. In the Government Programme and most recently in Vuosaari's climate consultation, measures have been agreed to shift from the use of polluting fossil fuels to domestic, renewable fuels and clean solutions. We are moving towards a bio- and circular economy. The sustainable use of forests is at the very heart of that. In order to boost Finnish forest expertise, the Centre presents Business Finland Forest, which would be an export programme for forest expertise and related research and training. In this way we would be bigger than our size in the world and our actions and skills would have a real impact on the world. Here we could use the climate fund proposed by our chairman, Mrs Kulmun, and subsequently agreed by the government. The city centre would also significantly increase the construction of wood in Finland. Joyful examples of public sector wood construction would be far more needed than they are currently available. Mr President! For the city centre, it is a threshold that changes are made fairly and fairly for the whole of Finland and for all Finns. We will not accept that the bill should only be paid by people on low incomes or just by rural areas. Instead, we want to encourage all ordinary people to do everyday things for nature and the climate that many people are already doing today. We Finns are responsible people. I would like to thank the committee for the climate year report and for the careful work you have done on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u58	Mr President! As the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy states in its report, the annual climate report is an important tool for climate and energy policy debate. However, the report should be developed in the future to take better account of the wide range of climate policy and its impact on the economy, employment and welfare. If we want to act effectively to slow global warming down, we need to look at the issue not only across sectors but also across sectors at every level of government, especially in regions and municipalities. Public procurement, for example, is important to promote climate-friendly solutions. The majority of public procurement, i.e. about two-thirds, is made by municipalities in Finland, so it is necessary to influence municipal actors. And that is why, in my own speech, I am focusing mainly on this theme. The development of procurement operating models and risk management and competence are interlinked in an advanced procurement strategy. We have also consulted experts in the Audit Committee on this issue in the context of the Board's annual report, where experts have pointed out that in practice the implementation of innovative sustainable development procurement is hindered by a policy that avoids the risks of public sector operators. Indeed, in legal terms, innovative and more environmentally-friendly procurement is already possible. Mr President! According to the Finnish Environment Agency's report, approximately half of municipalities take sustainability objectives into account in the procurement strategy or other procurement guidelines. Only about 10% of municipalities set sustainability targets for procurement, the implementation of which is monitored and measured. Fortunately, there are also municipalities in Finland that have made commendable progress on climate issues. In the Audit Committee, for example, we have heard about good models in Nokia and Li. The commitment of both officials and decision-makers is essential for progress. Change of attitude is often the most difficult thing. Learning about ex ante impact assessments in procurement is a fundamental element in order to achieve change. Many other municipalities and cities have climate and environmental objectives that guide procurement. For example, the Hinku municipalities have done good work on these issues. For example, joint procurement has been carried out for the purchase of gas, electric cars and charging equipment and solar power plants. Mr President! What more could we do to increase sustainable innovative procurement? The first objective of the Procurement Finland programme, which started in autumn 2019, is to create a common national procurement strategy in Finland, to which both the state and municipalities and joint municipal authorities commit themselves. A network-based centre of expertise for sustainable and innovative public procurement could be developed into an actor implementing a national procurement strategy. It is appropriate to deepen cross-administrative cooperation in the state administration and between the state and municipalities by developing new operating models. The Government Programme sets out the Government's common objectives and concrete guidelines on how to increase practical cooperation between ministries. The Government also wants to promote the preparation of municipal and regional carbon neutrality plans and the implementation of climate action. This cooperation should also cover circular economy measures in order to systematically increase the share of raw materials in circulation. In addition, close interaction and market dialogue between procurement organisations and companies developing technology-neutral solutions should be ensured. Better consideration of life-cycle costs is important in competitive tendering. It would be essential to include in the Procurement Act the procurement criteria for carbon and environmental footprints and to increase the binding nature of the Procurement Act for sustainable procurement. A plan to increase the number of innovative public procurements to 10% of public procurement will be completed in spring 2020. In my own hometown of Joensuu, this figure has been over 20 per cent for many years. Finally, Mr President, we are currently talking too narrowly about sustainable development and global warming, and the indicators for sustainable development are considered separately. More should be said about climate sustainability and support for it. Instead of talking about threats, we should think together about adapting to climate change. This requires, among other things, unfavorable identification of economic and health risks. By investing more in planning and implementing adaptation measures, it is possible to limit the harmful consequences of climate change more effectively. Communityism and working together would build hope for the future for us, and that is what we need right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u59	Mr President! We need reason, realism and concreteness to discuss the climate. We don't need empty talk, nonsense and guilt. Sometimes it seems that people want to force climate action on where it is most expensive, as if maximising misery were a measure of climateism. No, it's not. Emissions must first be reduced where they are most efficient and affordable at the time and where new technologies can spread to other, more polluting countries. Global emission reductions are the only things that matter in the end. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] And there's gonna be more expensive. Indeed, the government intends to introduce into Parliament a law allowing congestion charges in urban areas. This vending machine for a newer motorist is to be rejected. The congestion charge is often justified by climate reasons. However, it is not about emissions; it is about hard work, activity, work and enterprise — that is, it is about what more is needed for Finland, not less. According to public figures, Helsinki officials are already preparing the introduction of a congestion charge in the eyes of the euro. According to HSL’s previous toll paper, an additional invoice for the work of a small contractor or a teacher in Porvoo could amount to up to EUR 130 per month after the toll has been introduced. It doesn't make any sense. It is clear that such a wall of diligence would undermine incentives to work here in Uusimaa. This has been said directly in the impact assessment of the Helsinki region’s road toll plan. It has been found that ‘road pricing would reduce labouravailability’, i.e. in English:congestion payments would reduce Was not this government specifically to increase the number of people in work and not to reduce it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u62	Mr President! When we talk about combating climate change in Finland, the most important means are agriculture and transport. However, in a country with long distances, the car is a necessity, as is the necessary goods from agriculture and forestry. Food consumption does not decrease, and toilet paper and packaging board are still needed in Finland and elsewhere in the world in the future, not to mention other, more processed wood products. Finnish agriculture and forestry is ecological and sustainable for international monitoring with all possible indicators. However, with too strict climate targets, we are pushing these sectors into tight straits. We must continue to safeguard agriculture and forestry in our country and not allow them to flee to countries where emissions are quite different. Mr President! Indeed, I think it is important that strict climate targets do not put the Finnish farmer in distress. Compensation does not save the situation, whether at national or EU level. Farmers will be in an even more difficult position in the future when far too strict and ambitious targets for carbon neutrality are set to be pursued. I cannot understand the trend in which, for example, economic forests would be abandoned in the name of climate change without managing and cultivating productive fields. We need food and wood now and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u63	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Thank you for a good conversation. As the chairman of the committee said in his opening speech, this climate report is now what is based on the climate law and is the first of its kind. This climate report now deals specifically with the burden-sharing sector, because under the current climate law, the burden-sharing sector is what the climate law covers, but we are in the process of updating the climate law and will also include the land use sector and, for example, the question of sinks, as was also raised by the chairman of the committee, that it is also important to take account of sinks and the growing of sinks. Many speakers expressed the need to develop this annual report overall so that it gives an overall picture of emissions and emissions development, not just for this single sector. This is the feedback we will be happy to receive in the preparation. It is precisely so that we must and it is important to have an overall picture of all emissions and their development. We also need to take a more forward-looking approach to these issues, which was raised both in this committee's report and in many speeches. Whenever this report comes, then, of course, we will look back on what has happened, but when we know that climate policy must also have a strong eye on the way forward, it is important that we develop the report accordingly. The next report will be based on this current climate law, because the update of the new climate law is not yet in place, but we will also develop and take into account as much as possible these development needs where appropriate. When we get the new climate law into force, there will be a broader and more comprehensive reform of it, which will bring out all these sectors and total emissions even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u64	Mr President! The approach to climate change is often completely wrong, as the study of the Union of Newspapers shows. Forty-six per cent of young people think that there is too much talk of climate change, and more than 40 per cent of young people do not want to think about climate change because it brings anxiety to life. Climate change should be seen as an opportunity for Finnish companies and new innovations, for example. Vaasa is a great example of this. Finland has the cleanest industry in the world, which must be kept here, and to this, for example, tax increases in government fuels are a completely wrong move, as they undermine the competitiveness of companies. In addition to companies, they also make life difficult for ordinary people. A direct quotation from the report of the Committee on the Environment on the new annual report on climate change: ‘Although Finland and the EU do not solve global climate change,they will contribute to globaldevelopment through their own activities. “ If this issue cannot be managed sensibly, the bill will be quite significant for Finnish people and businesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u65	Mr President! The Climate Act, which entered into force in 2015, requires the Government to submit an annual report on climate change to Parliament. Its purpose is to monitor the implementation of the medium-term climate policy plan and the development of emissions by sector. The burden-sharing sector consists of emissions from transport, agriculture, heating and waste management, among others. Efforts are being made to control these emissions through domestic legislation and the emissions trading sector for industry and energy production is EU-wide. Every two years, the climate report contains a mapping of medium-term policy measures and every four years an assessment of the implementation of the adaptation plan is on the table. This first annual climate report contains all these elements. Environmental issues are also important for me and our party. We do not dispute climate change and its disadvantages, even though we sometimes try to claim that. The key issue is how environmental policy measures affect the Finnish economy and the lives of Finns. The EU's climate plans are ambitious, but Finland's climate action is partly oversized in relation to how much we can contribute to global climate change. The government seems to want to go beyond the EU's emissions targets, and this will have damaging consequences for the everyday lives of Finns and the economy of our country. The emissions targets for transport are targeted at both private car drivers and transport entrepreneurs and thus have a wider impact on companies in many sectors. This is poison to our country's economy. Emissions reductions affecting our industry are an incentive to shift the production of products to countries where regulation is very lax. At the same time, our jobs are disappearing in bulk. How does the government expect to maintain services if our industries are driven down? This will be costly for Finland and Finns and will only lead to an increase in total emissions. I would also like to say a few words about agriculture. The situation of many farmers in Finland is currently difficult. The world economy is currently characterised by uncertainty, which makes the existence of domestic food production invaluable. We cannot afford to see the farms begin to collapse at an accelerated rate. Climate policy, among other things, leads to an excessive increase in operating expenditure and an increase in the risks associated with future investments. In designing climate policy, Finland's needs should be better taken into account. After all, Finland is already one of the leading EU countries in its climate goals and climate action – so where is the fairness of this burden sharing? Realism in the game. Overgreen climate policy is still expensive for us, and the world will not be saved either, because Finland's share of total emissions is negligible. The solution to climate change rests on the shoulders of larger polluters. Mr President! When we talk about climate change, studies show that extreme conditions are increasing — yes. Then it is really important to keep the multifunctional agricultural activity in order. Southern Europe is weaker in farming and Northern Europe is stronger in the future. We would then be strong in the export of the food industry, but will our agriculture be viable then? The government, producers, processors and trade also negotiate price distribution in food and production. There's a huge number of employees in this chain. It must be remembered that this is why the joint decision of the four concerned on how to share the burden and give more primary production is really important. Mr President! Finally, from peat production, peat is used extensively for heating. What will become of the farm if the peat is completely driven down in a fast-term? What about the farm? There's nothing decent about the place yet. And when talking about animal welfare, has the fact that peat is used as an important bedding for animals been taken into account? What's in it for you? What is the future availability of litter if peat is removed? What are the costs? And then the forests of Finland. They are carbon sinks, an important part of climate action, and Finland knows how to manage forests. These are some of the reasons why Mr Peltokangas, Mrs Huru and Mrs Lehto, members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, have objected to this report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u66	Mr President! According to the climate report, Finland is achieving the emission reduction target for the 2013-2020 burden-sharing sector. On the other hand, the current measures are not sufficient to achieve the objectives set for the period 2021 to 2030. The Government is committed to making Finland carbon neutral by 2035. The objective is ambitious, but when we make wise decisions, the usefulness of new technologies will increase and our export opportunities will improve. At the Vuosaari climate conference a few weeks ago, there were two good guidelines: the establishment of a climate fund and the reduction of the European Union's electricity tax on industry from 2021 onwards. The Climate Fund strengthens public and private financial flows towards clean solutions and a climate-friendly circular economy. The Fund will be used to promote digitalisation and to shift industry to low carbon. For example, the Climate Fund is excellent for a central realistic climate policy. It was also decided to gradually reduce the electricity tax on industry in Vuosaari. The solution supports industrial electrification and improves predictability for companies. This is of paramount importance for investment. Reducing the electricity tax on industry is welcome for SSAB and other companies planning clean investments. As a representative of the Raahen Parliament, I would like to excite the announcement by the steel company SSAB that emissions will be significantly reduced on an earlier schedule when it starts manufacturing steel with a new method that generates hydrogen instead of carbon dioxide. The decision taken by SSAB reflects the fact that determined and stable policy climate policies encourage industry to act more climate-friendlyly. It is easy to stand behind a climate policy of this kind as a centre person. The biggest emitters must be made to take responsibility for our common atmosphere. The decision taken by SSAB also shows that climate policy has the potential to make sensible and fair decisions that give hope to the next generations. At the end of the world, instead of intimidation or banning non-intelligent climate change, the Centre is seeking regionally and socially just solutions to this. Mr President! At the end of the day, I would like to express the hope that the guilt of farmers will be stopped in Finland. Farmers are the first to know about changes in the environment and in their own account bag. We should be as proud of Finnish agriculture and its production as the French and Germans are of their own. A good and responsible climate policy is to favour conscientiously and purely produced domestic food.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u67	Mr President! According to the Climate Act, the Government submits an annual climate report to the Parliament once a year. The report monitors the implementation of the medium-term climate policy plan and also examines sectoral emissions developments. Every two years, the climate report also includes a mapping of policy actions under the medium-term policy plan, which have already been introduced. In addition, an assessment of the implementation and state of play of the adaptation plan is provided every four years. This first climate annual report under discussion includes all the above-mentioned areas. Mr President! The climate report contains a broad range of climate policy issues and measures on which our committee was more than concerned. We still cannot accept the EU's climate plans. As a whole, we see that the climate policy plan now proposed is quite problematic from many different points of view. In addition, it must also be said that it is precisely through the Paris Agreement that the EU continues and forcefully strengthens global climate leadership that serves as a bad example for the Union. This is a development that we Finns cannot accept either, because we feel that securing the operating conditions of Finnish entrepreneurship and Finnish industry is a real environmental act in the big picture. Mr President! Finally, as a committee, we also drew attention to the fact that too ambitious emission reduction targets, particularly the overly high emission reduction targets for transport, are undermining the competitiveness of the region compared with other countries. This could have fatal consequences for our country. In the long run, in particular, these measures, which are now known, such as tough national obligations which undermine the competitiveness of the transport sector and other over-arching targets for the transport sector, will not at least improve the situation in our country. In this way, we will fly our industry out of our country with considerable probability, at least in a certain period of time. This is due to the fact that the EU's 2030 emission reduction target is to reduce 40% of the level of 90 in order to be updated in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. On the other hand, the Finnish Government is pushing an even tighter line, i.e. at least 55 per cent of the 1990 level. This is a development for which we Finns are not ready. Mr President! On the basis of the above, I propose, on behalf of our group in committee, that the Council of State does not come up with measures to implement the mediumterm climate policy plan and does not — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u68	Mr President! This winter has been a sad example of how the climate changes in Finland. I myself live here in Helsinki, and where a ski trail has passed near my home in previous years and where I have enjoyed skiing very much, the sand roads have fallen under the flooded seawater this year and the beach banks have collapsed by the power of the water. Even the perch was found wandering on the lawn of the park. So climate change is not a threat that is happening somewhere else and to others. I remember years ago we campaigned for climate law together with 34 organisations. At that time, a ski race was held in a snowless country. This stunt was intended to illustrate how climate change will affect Finland as well. I never would have thought that snowless winters so soon would be true here in southern Finland. If there is no cold period, this year will remain in southern Finland at three seasons. Although it cannot be said directly from a single year whether it is due to climate change or not, climate change still causes snowy winters to become less frequent and rainy winters to become more frequent. It is clear to me and the Left Alliance that Finland must be a pioneer in climate policy. It is our historic responsibility and it is our duty, but it is also our interest. Inaction is the worst option of all, i.e. those who do not want climate action, in practice they are pushing for a result that is the most costly in its impact and which is the most unfair in its impact. The Government Programme’s record of carbon neutrality in 2035 has attracted a lot of positive attention, even admiration, perhaps even inspiration, in the world. That is what the entire government and all the government parties are committed to. The fight against climate change is one of the main objectives of this government, which must go through all the policies. Well, the government's climate work has also received criticism, and yes, some of that criticism is also justified in my view. I want, and the Left Alliance as a whole, to see a strong commitment to ambitious climate action through the power of the entire government. It is also quite clear to the Left Alliance that solving climate change is closely linked to poverty and inequality. The rich are those who cause most of the emissions, while the poorest are the main sufferers of the climate crisis. At the same time, it is clear that no one can think that they are beyond the reach of the accelerating climate crisis, as the examples I mentioned at the outset show. An important aspect of climate change mitigation is not only the goal but also the social justice of the journey to the goal. We want to ensure that people feel that climate action is for them and not against them. Climate change cannot be combated without social justice, and fundamental human rights cannot be guaranteed if climate change gets out of hand. Now, for the first time, we have this report on climate change, which is an important tool and its task is to increase the weight of climate policy and to help us to monitor how climate action is progressing. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I think we have produced a good report on this annual report on climate change, and we also saw that this should be more comprehensive. We wanted to emphasise that we need an overall picture of emissions development beyond what the climate law in its current form requires when it is mainly confined to the burden-sharing sector without the land-use sector. Our committee believes that it is essential to look at the effectiveness and adequacy of climate policy and to act in relation to this objective of 2035. The Left Alliance also supports the proposals of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to develop the annual report on climate change in the direction of the overall emissions review. The annual climate report should contain all the key areas through which we can contribute to climate change. These are our carbon footprints in a comprehensive way, i.e. our regional greenhouse gas emissions, the emissions trading, burden sharing and land use sectors and our carbon sinks. In addition, the report should contain a carbon footprint caused by consumption in Finland outside Finland. Thirdly, the report could include not only the international carbon footprint of Finland and Finnish companies, but also the carbon handprint, i.e. the positive measures we can use to solve the problem in this story. Mr President! It is very clear that people want and expect action from us. Climate action is not on the shoulders of an individual person, although of course everyone can be part of the change. Climate action is the responsibility of our decision-makers. Our work and our success in this house will be mirrored against how we succeed in combating climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u69	Mr President! One of the objectives of the report on climate change is that Parliament should be able to discuss climate policy, and I am very pleased that this debate is now taking place, so many have already spoken and the list is long. Unfortunately, I have to leave now, and that is why I wanted to make one last speech here. Many speakers stress the need for fair change, and that is what the government is committed to. [Leena Sea interlude] We need to take measures both regionally and socially justly and understand that it is good to have different means in place, for example, in different parts of Finland. If we are talking about transport, the development of which is seen in this particular annual report, then here a representative wisely gave examples of how, on the one hand, improving public transport and increasing walking and cycling in cities are the key. Most of the car trips that Finns do are less than three kilometres away, and there [Leena Sea interlude] On the other hand, we have large areas where the use of a private car is absolutely necessary, without which we cannot manage, and where we need to think about what means there are and how we need to see to it that we can use lower-emission fuels — whether or not they are transport biogas — how we support access to the market for electric cars, including used electric cars, and how we will ensure that people can continue their daily lives there without being unduly expensive to use the car where it is necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u70	Thank you. — and Mr Meri, a brief reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u71	Thank you, Speaker! Minister, I'm sorry you're going to have to leave. You have told us that we will finally be able to discuss this big issue and there are more than half the speeches that have not been made here. So this idea is that we are sending a message to the government and the ministry about what we are concerned about. For example, I drew attention to the fact that you spoke about fairness and justice and internationalism, and I would have liked to have heard what you are doing as a minister or in the EU, for example, with regard to China and Brazil. The other night we watched illegal gold mines in the rain forests from Brazil, and China is polluting, is a huge population explosion. These are root causes, these are huge environmental disasters, and we are squinting here about very small things, such as that after a day's work, if the mother would go on a bike to pick up the child from the nursery. If we can tackle these root causes, they are the real solutions. I would like you to answer these big structural questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u72	Mr President! That is precisely why we need international climate policy. That is precisely why, for example, the European Green Deal, this European Agenda for Sustainable Development, is thinking about how, for example, we could create carbon tariffs, how we can ensure that the products we have are complying with the same environmental legislation as we have in the EU's own region. That is why the EU is considering how to ensure that consumption emissions are also reflected in it. Of course, we in the EU are also responsible for global emissions in the sense that most of our consumer goods come from other parts of the world and can, for example, cause deforestation. This is one of the things that is currently being considered in the EU: how do we take into account the fact that our consumption does not cause emissions elsewhere or, for example, deforestation or otherwise damage the environment? This is precisely why we need strong international cooperation, a strong international policy, especially in environmental policy and climate policy. In this, the EU must now take the lead in getting other countries involved, and in international climate negotiations it has become clear that this leader is needed. And, in fact, a great many countries are prepared to join, whether they are rich or poor, whether they are from the south or from the north. These coalitions are born all the time. This is our way: together we will ensure that our planet is in good condition for future generations as well. — — — — But now I'm afraid I have to leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u73	Thank you. — Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u74	Mr President! However, the important thing about reducing emissions is that we need to see it in our size and the influence we have. Finland’s emissions from global emissions are just over one thousandth, or one per mill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u77	Mr President! I wish the government partners would listen to the city center. I would say that Mr Hoskose has the voice of reason that you would now need for these different measures of yours, because Finland's contribution is really minimal. That does not mean that we cannot make good innovations here and encourage businesses and private people to do what they have the chance and the money. The focus must be specifically transferred to international tables. Here a left-wing spokesman spoke of the fact that when you are a climate leader, you get admiration. We do not need admiration at the moment, but concrete measures from countries such as Brazil and China, which really do not care about the state of the environment. There is pressure, emphasis — not admiration, but concrete measures. Show the kind of leadership you could have shown during the presidency, for example, demand that, hey, now you take action. I have not seen anyone, such as the leader of the political government party, take any position on Brazil's illegal gold mines and the felling of rain forests.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u78	Mr President! It is certainly quite clear to everyone here that climate policy is international and our national action is our share of global emissions. With this admiration, I meant that we can have a greater influence on the world as a whole through our ability to make such a signal effect, to be an example, to be a forerunner, and that is all about international climate policy. I think it would be good to understand that we can understand this through a global carbon budget which, for example, should take account of the fact that these allowances must be distributed fairly so that they are proportionate to the inhabitants of the planet. When you look at this, Finland's emissions in terms of population are one of the biggest, so we also have a duty to reduce them. Then there is this ability to pay, which means that rich countries have a greater responsibility. And third, this historic responsibility is very important. So that's what it means.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u79	Now you've had time to use this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u80	Mr President! It must be admitted that the openings of our Presidency as the EU's global climate leader were very important openings to what has now been achieved and how the Green Deal and other strategies will be taken forward during the other presidencies. It has been an opening, and now other countries within the EU have also taken it and taken it as seriously as we have taken it. It is good to say to Mrs Merelle - and I am sure she is aware of that too - that, in this government, perhaps the Greens and Left Alliance are also blackmailing us in this climate issue. That's a good thing. We have recorded in the programme that this change has been made in a socially just way, that is to say, to ensure that in that region, and why not here in cities, people have opportunities and the burden does not become too heavy when moving towards that low-carbon economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u81	Mr President! In this context, I would just like to remind you that we are talking about emissions and say, for example, ‘we and they’re as if we’re in a confrontational position,that we’re all on this shared earth. I would like to remind you that our consumption here in the north per capita is eight times that of the world's resources compared to, for example, India or these countries, which we are talking about here, that they are major polluters — okay, quantitatively, yes. But here's our chance, too. We have all that knowledge and skill, we have the technologies that they will need to help us together. Here we have the possibility of employment and exports. We have highly educated people and technological know-how, which we would have great opportunity to exploit here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u82	Mr President! Where Finland can be bigger than it is in climate matters, we are developing innovations and clean technologies that can be brought to that world market and thus to those countries that are more polluting. Indeed, Finland is one of a handful of countries in the world that has managed to reduce its emissions in absolute terms. This too should be borne in mind that instead of whipping ourselves like this, we should also be proud of the innovations and the new technologies that are emerging from Finland. In this debate, the steel company SSAB's carbon-free steel came up earlier, which in itself would reduce Finland's emissions by 7 per cent and Sweden's emissions by 10 per cent. The second thing I want to raise is small nuclear power. VTT said yesterday that he was launching a project to develop small nuclear power suitable for district heat production. This could also be an export product for Finland, said Poland, where these carbon emissions are a real problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u83	I will give the answers to the representatives of Meri, Kauma, Essayah, Honkonen, Strand and Hoskonen. Then let us go back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u84	Mr President! I hope that the representative of the city centre, Ovaska, said ‘not to blackmail’. This is where we focused on our ears here in the front row. I am sure that you will have to consider for yourself the ideas of your own supporters and your constituents as to what kind of policy they have hoped will be taken when you talk about this government's policy being fair. For example, an increase in the fuel tax could go to the public to ask how fair they feel about it. That I did wonder, though, that this is the case — but this is the green left thing as a majority at the moment, and that is how it is. On that point, I agree with the Greens, Mr Petelius, that we have a good technology that we can export, but that does not mean that we discipline ourselves and beat and blame ourselves to death because we have done a very good job. People are now struggling with the economy, and everyone is doing it according to their own abilities and carrying capacity. But I'm still calling for that root cause. The population explosion, the extinction of species, and these.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u85	Mr President! From that speech by Mr Petelius, who said that emissions per capita are high in Finland: that is indeed true, but it actually reminds me that in these countries, which have been mentioned here as major sources of emissions, there is a very large population growth. We rarely talk about climate issues, too, about how to curb population growth. Since the amount of emissions is also directly proportional to how the population grows, and when the standard of living grows in these countries, of course consumption also increases. There's a connection between these things. As far as Finland's contribution is concerned, what we can do, we must of course remember that one thing that matters to the level of our emissions per capita is our climate here. Heating as a whole accounts for about 30% of total emissions. We'll have to take that into account too, won't we?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u86	Mr President! We will certainly be able to be larger players than us, precisely in the way in which these technological solutions are being promoted. There are a lot of small measures listed in this climate report, but somehow the big picture is missing in the sense that we should be talking about these big guidelines for energy production. In many speeches, the issue of SSAB and the coal-free steel it produces has just been raised. It must be understood that, when one such Rautaruukki-sized or now SSAB-sized Raahe factory produces steel without coal, it will need about a sixth of Finland's electricity production, i.e. note. a single production facility. This may open up a scale to the fact that when we are in coal-free electricity production and we want to produce carbon-free steel, we need a massively larger amount of primary energy. The question then arises as to how many nuclear power plants will have to be built and what other potential sources of energy will be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u87	All right, time's up. There are three more debatable remarks here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u88	Mr President! To this end, the representative shall: As a follow-up to Essayah, it is quite clear that more nuclear power will be needed in Finland in the future in order to achieve this transition to CO2-free generation to the extent necessary. Now that the representative of the Sea has called for the root causes of climate change, the root cause is not some gold mine in the middle of the rain forest, even though it causes climate change, but the root cause is,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u89	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Here is Petelius and many others have spoken well about technology and the export possibilities it brings. For the Vaasa Cleantech Cluster alone, the top companies will invest another billion in the next five years, and almost everything is exports and exports to all the countries of the world. I would also like to see that we should not only invest extensively in research and development, but also in energy storage and battery technology, in particular, in Finland, and not just in the further processing of minerals, but in particular in the production of battery cells and their integration into the global supply of smart electricity systems and networks. Then we will have that huge positive handprint and get all the potential out of this knowledge of ours. Such different reports, as we are talking about today, should also help to measure the handprint that our Finnish companies in the world actually have on these issues. I bet it would also make us concentrate our RD funding in a slightly different way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u90	And I will make my last contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u91	Mr President! In the opening speech, I mentioned this domestic diesel, MY, which would be able to reduce the emissions of passenger cars by around 5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide compared to fossil fuels, which is quite possible if we want to do so. That's an easy way to do it. You don't have to invest in cars at this point. Of course, they are slowly renewing, and real electric cars are coming, but there is no point in investing in it, because many families cannot afford it. Another way is to increase the growth of forests by means of ash fertilisation. It's a very cheap procedure. 10 million motors of wood growth can easily be increased by rational recycling of nutrients and is 10 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. So we have achieved 15 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by means of domestic means which cost little or nothing, but now, if we start to strangle the economy, then we dare not even imagine the fall. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we are realists.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u93	I did, and now let's go back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u94	Ärade talman, Mr President! Vi diskaterar just nu Finlands första klimatårsberättelse, och det är bra, för vi behöver en långsiktig och kostnadseffektiv planering och uppföljning av klimatpolitiken. Det är valdigt viktigt med tanke på trovärdigheten i den rai debatten som bland you give pågår rai i dag. Det diskuteras ju en hel del för tilfället kring klimatet i samhället, och det ärks nog egentligen varje dag då vi rör oss uute på fältet, som till exempel i går. För sin del är regeringsprogrammet en stark catalysator i debatten i och med att målet är att Finland ska vara klimatneutralt år 2035, och det är ett valddigt ambitiöst mål. Samtidigt, som det har kommit fram ox, har ju vintern lyst med sin frånvaro på många håll i landet nu i vinter — inte så mycket sno. Det kan heida att det är temporärt, men det har också gjort att vi nu i alla fall har debt diskuera det bull en hel del. Den ox klimatdebatten polariserar, och det rauta werks ju också i den raussalen, men oftast går vi tillbaka till frågan “vemskabetalaafördetär?”. Det har Senast i den har debatten commit fram valdigt tydligt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u95	Mr President! Now that we are dealing with this annual climate report, it is also appropriate to use a few ideas and a few words about where climate change will lead us in practice. Now, of course, it is essential that we in Finland, and also in other countries of the world, take this fight against climate change seriously and take effective, genuine measures to reduce emissions. Of course, there is a great temptation here to implement measures that look attractive to the people and look raflavic to the people, but which do not genuinely reduce emissions and are costly. We need to focus on those who actually have an impact that genuinely reduces emissions. However, even though we here in Finland, at the Finnish level, do our part and fight against climate change, it is clear that, regardless of us, as we have seen this winter and in recent years, global warming has progressed and the consequences of climate change are already visible in Finland and they are already visible in many areas. In the equatorial region they are seen as drought, desertification and we have the loss of winters and so on. That is quite clear to all of us. Well, what does this climate change and its consequences for us here in Finland really require? We have not had much social debate on this yet, that is, how we really adapt to the effects of climate change. The situation is that, in general, the first professional group suffering from climate change is a farmer, a food producer. In his own harvest — in many things, in the spread of plant diseases, in the failure of hundreds as rains increase or drought increases — he is the first to bear its burden and the problems of climate change. Our food production requires major changes so that it will be able to maintain the same quality in Finland as well, and our food self-sufficiency will be maintained and even improved in the future. Another issue that has already been raised is that forestry also suffers from these changing weather conditions. This year, this winter, when it has been a record warm and rainy winter, wood has hardly been able to be harvested from the forest for industrial, processing, and harvesting equipment will cause damage in the forest if you go there in winter like this. There is research that, for example, pine is much better able to withstand climate change than six, and Finland’s forests become six-managed, for example, because pine cannot be cultivated much. In my own forest farm, I have noticed that mooses immediately eat all pine trees, and for this reason my own farm is cultivated mainly from the moon, even if mixed forest is better for the environment and also for adaptation to climate change in many ways. There will also have to be much more attention to these issues in the future, how wood management works and how forestry will function in the future, and how to make forests withstand storms better and so that there is enough raw material for the forest industry and the forests will remain in good growth condition. The third major entity is certainly construction, infrastructure, the changes that must be made to our construction and the way in which we are built in order to withstand these changing weathers. After all, it is usually said that old - time wooden buildings were much better able to endure and remained much healthier. Well, it was very cold in the winter, and the way in which we built it must have been changed when the humidity in the winter is getting harder and harder. Usually winter has been a dry time to build, the structures have dried up. There may now be indoor air problems when at no point a year is sufficiently dry to implement certain structures in construction projects. The planning and zoning of the community structure will certainly be under change. If you think about building on the seashore, for example, I think that 10 to 20 metres below the current sea level should not be built, because if the sea level rises, it is certainly in trouble that, at least when it comes to the responsibility of society, it should not be built so close to the sea. Second thing. This winter, we have seen very well how road flooring, asphalt, suffers from this kind of carbonic weather. Surely, how we build infra — roads, tracks — in increasingly changing weather conditions, more sustainable, will be a major social need. Mr President! There's a lot of research that needs to be done. There is a need for exciting planning and preparation for these changing weather conditions resulting from climate change in the future, because while we are still focusing on reducing emissions here in Finland and Europe, we need to start preparing and adapting our society to the changes that will result from the inevitable global warming that we are seeing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u96	Mr President! I was dealing with this climate report in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and there, of course, we talked a lot about the possibilities of climate change for Finnish industry as well. And it has been well mentioned here in various speeches what these innovations can make possible for our export trade. Then we talked a lot about heating, heating buildings, because it is a very central part of this burden-sharing sector. After all, there are still nearly 200,000 oil-heated properties in Finland, and it would be desirable to move on to sustainable solutions already in the 2020s. The Coalition Party is very sorry that cuts have been made to the household allowance, which means that household reductions can no longer be made even if investments in heating are made that are energy-friendly. We would certainly like these household reductions to be restored to the level where they have been and preferably to be extended to include investment in equipment. Today, I have been discussing with the Espoo family of Omats, and there they are also concerned that, although many people would like to move away from oil heating, they cannot afford it, and geothermal heat is also not suitable for all the soil alternatives in which these houses have been built. That I would like the government to consider options that could also encourage energy solutions for detached residents to be more sustainable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u97	Mr President! Värderade Talman! The annual climate report shows that there is hope for combating climate change. But it also shows, unfortunately, that these current measures under the baseline scenario are not sufficient to achieve the objective of 2021 to 2030, but that further reductions in emissions are needed throughout the period. Fortunately, we now have a situation where we know where and how we can reduce emissions. For example, emissions from the transport sector, which have already been mentioned here, play an important role in achieving the 2030 target for the burden-sharing sector — in a fair and fair way for everyone, of course — including by improving the energy efficiency of transport vehicles, increasing the share of biofuels to 30%, raising the electric car fleet, including the hybrids to be charged, 250,000 and the stock of gas cars to 50,000, including the renewal of the car fleet and the development of mass and light traffic. As far as agriculture is concerned — and much has been said about it here, it is an important part of this — the aim is to reduce emissions by 10% by 2030 by, among other things, reducing food losses in different parts of the food chain, in all parts of the food chain. I also believe that food exports should be promoted by increasing the profitability of domestic agriculture. In addition, separate heating of buildings is gradually trying to get rid of oil. The carbon footprint of households will be reduced by 50% by 2030. But, just as Mr Honkonen has just said, we must remember the urgency of adaptation measures by preparing for, among other things, a double-to-three increase in flooding, an increase in disease and pest risks and future losses in the industrial, energy and transport sectors. So there is hope, there are solutions, there is action now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u98	Mr President! As has often been revealed in the debate, we now have the first annual climate report in history, in accordance with the Climate Change Act, from 2019. When I have listened to this whole debate, I would say that there is absolutely no government proposal at the moment for possible congestion charges, for the dismantling of agriculture, let alone for some diesel cars to be picked up by the government in the yard — no. This is a matter as simple but complex as the climate year report. I personally think that this is a working paper for further work for both political decision-makers and ministries. As a background, the climate law was adopted during the 2011-2014 government term, when my own party also worked in the government, and the law was then criticised in a critical tone and feared that it would increase bureaucracy. However, I think that reporting in accordance with the Climate Act has raised the level of climate policy debate and the knowledge base in Parliament, as was also the intention of the law. In the Committee on the Environment, we considered it excellent that the annual climate report is a separate document from the Government's annual report and therefore receives the attention it deserves, and I believe that this has been appreciated not only by the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in this debate today. It is true that climate change is progressing rapidly and policy must keep pace with it. From that truth, we can't get away from anything. The Special Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), published in October 2018, highlighted the seriousness of the progress made in climate change, stating that limiting global warming to 1.5°C requires immediate and even unprecedented measures. Although Finland and the EU do not solve global climate change, they must promote development through their own efforts. The programme of the sitting government has committed itself to the goal of carbon neutrality in Finland in 2035. This requires both changes at climate strategy level and revision of the Climate Act. The acceptability of climate action and action requires that energy and climate policy should always be based on researched knowledge and reasoned assessments of policy costs and overall impacts. In particular, I feel that the economic, employment and ecological impact must always be linked to the social impact of decision-making and debate, particularly on the distribution of income. Mr President! As I said at the beginning, we will be discussing the first climate annual report under the Climate Change Act for 2019, and in the future I hope that the climate annual reports will contain comprehensive assessments of future concrete instruments, their challenges and their adequacy. The key to this kind of reporting is the usability and use of all information, because that is what we are doing here in practice in parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u99	Mr President! The climate annual report 2019 is available for discussion. Every week in the Parliament House you hear people say that Finland and Finns must be ambitious in climate policy and in reducing emissions. Ambition is a good thing, but shooting in your own leg is not. Finland’s emissions continue to be only to 1% of global carbon dioxide emissions. For Promi, our emissions have little impact on the climate. Even if we didn't let anything go, nothing would change. In view of the fact that we should be particularly ambitious, there is no basis. Of course, we can reduce our emissions in a sensible and controlled way. At the same time, we can develop clean technology, as earlier representatives of Vestman and Kauma said. There may be the new Nokia that Finland desperately needs in pure technology. The decision-making process must take into account Finland’s national interest and the financing base of the Finnish welfare state. We must not be so ambitious as to drive critical industries out of Finland and at the same time weaken the sustainability of our national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u102	Mr President! We really have a climate year report on the table. Although the law has been in force for about five years, it is still the first annual climate report because this has not been done before. We dealt with these issues in the Committee on the Environment, and I shall start now with—and it was also pointed out—that it is difficult to see that this first annual report has been submitted to the Parliament on a yearly basis,but this will certainly be corrected in the future. Sections 7 and 9 of the Climate Act a system for the planning of climate policy, which is a long-termlong-term The long-term plan's emission reduction targets are general and will extend until 2050, while, once again, the actions contained in the long-term plan for the so-called burden-sharing sector in the electoral term will be more concrete. Emissions from transport, agriculture, separate heating and waste management are calculated for the burden-sharing sector, and emissions from the burden-sharing sector are controlled by domestic legislation, while the emissions trading sector for industry and energy production is an EU-wide and emissions trading is the main instrument for reducing emissions in these sectors. According to this report, which is therefore the basis for the 2015 Climate Change Act, Finland is in the process of achieving the emission reduction targets for the burden-sharing sector set for the period 2013 to 2020, i.e., as we in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy recorded in this report, Finland is in the process of achieving these emission reduction targets for the burden-sharing sector for the period 13 to 20, but for the next ten years, i.e. the period 21 to 30, these current measures in Finland are not enough, but further reductions are needed. We know that the Government has also defined these emission reduction targets at this climate conference, which is referred to as the Vuosaari climate conference. They are defined as targets, i.e. between 4 and 4.6 megatonnes for transport, between 2 and 4 megatonnes for the national energy and climate strategy and the medium-term climate plan, i.e. between 1 and 2 megatonnes for KAISU. The objectives are good, but now it is expected that there will also be government proposals on how to achieve them. Mr President! When the climate law obligation was introduced in 2015, the Environment Committee then stated that the Climate Act will increase the overall governance, social visibility and weight of climate policy, and there has been an order for such statutory planning systems. So, what's next? There has been quite a lot of talk about pioneering here in the Chamber, and Finland, as a small but high-skilled country, really has the opportunity to be a pioneer through various R & D efforts. There has been talk of SSAB — what it will do in the future — about Neste’s MY diesel, hundreds of very different innovations and examples that can bring jobs and jobs to Finland in the cleantech sector. For example, I take one from Oulu: Proventia, which has a flue-gas discharge system, which can be installed afterwards on such heavy goods vehicles as double-deck buses, various trucks, and can remove and clean about 90 per cent of the flue-gases that these vehicles become. What has been the incentive to create such technology in Finland? The fact that we know that the EU has adopted these emission reduction laws and we know that in the future emissions reductions will be stricter for transport and heavy goods vehicles. And especially for this energy sector, where climate issues are concerned, it is important to be encouraged, long-term and predictable, and that is why we legislators are required to make responsible decisions so that they are also told over a long period of time. An example of the last term of government: the ban on coal was made so that it was made during the last term of government and the target was set at 29 C.E. And now, for example, if you consider the use of peat, which is a big thing in my own region in Northern Ostrobothnia, it would be important to know in the coming years whether Finland will be giving up the use of peat by 35 or later or earlier, because, for example, for this green deal, the EU currently has these fair transition funds. Finland may receive support from the EU for abandoning coal, for abandoning peat in the next 10 to 15 years, but we will not get that EU money here if we are not able to take those decisions here. It is particularly important in this environmental and energy sector to create those incentives so that operators and entrepreneurs in the sector know where Finland is going and the long-term. So science and research, reason and understanding and hope and solutions are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u103	Mr President! At this stage of the debate, I think almost all the facts relating to substance have already come up in the debate. In my own words, if I describe how I see this debate, it is, of course, a good thing that we have a report on climate change, but, as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection itself said, in future this report should include all issues relating to climate and climate quality, such as emissions trading, LULUCF, concerning land use, land-use change and the forestry sector, and of course this sector of burden sharing, including transport, heating, separate heating of buildings and agriculture. Then we'd get some kind of big picture of what's going on here. Perhaps there is a lot of evidence of this modern age, how to express this now, this post-truth age, quite a lot of these images, are on the move with images. But this kind of real economy comes at the level of companies and at the level of people's bills always against — whether these taxes are imposed or whatever laws are passed, they always appear in someone's purse. In fact, I think there is a fairly large consensus in this Chamber on the whole climate issue, there are only two small buts: to whom is the invoice sent and what the time span is. For example, energy policy from the point of view of investment protection is a very long-term policy. Many investments cost up to hundreds of millions of dollars, and it is suddenly impossible to change the policy of fuel, for example. This is why I consider it a little short-sighted, for example, in the debate on peat, that the use of peat should suddenly be stopped. Since, in reality, all the companies that use peat today, such as peat and wood, make heat and electricity, already know exactly what this is and are in their own strategies to reduce the use of peat even so that the goal set by this government will be achieved in 2025. Why should people be further punished by significantly increasing the tax on peat? There is nothing special about it except that in those poor areas where peat and wood are compulsory for heat to be produced, only a larger electricity and heating bill can be made. I do not see very much reason why this should be the case, because the market has already received a political message and has implemented this in its practical fuel mix and fuel and other strategy, that it is gradually being sought through the technology that can be achieved, to reduce the use of peat and perhaps also to use wood in the future. All MPs will have noticed that in 2018, the Parliament raised the tax on peat by almost 60 per cent at a time, but that is not enough because peat falls within the scope of emissions trading for industry and energy plants after crossing a certain limit. And when the price of the allowance was three and a half or four euros a few years ago, it is now 23 or 24. I can't remember the exact figure when I don't like these papers. But you could say that the price of the allowance has risen fivefold. During the last two years, peat has been penalised by 60% tax collection and five times the price of allowances. I do not see much sense in that policy — even when coal is being abandoned by 2029, why should we try to give up peat even more quickly? What are we burning because they have been built in such a way that most of them need peat for technical support because otherwise the equipment will be ruined? When this is the case, if we impose unreasonable penalties on peat and try to drive peat out of these plants too quickly, it will raise the price of energy wood and may have an impact on the price of fibrewood, which, in contrast, international competitiveness will not allow much to be raised. That is when we come across a situation where the law on the prohibition of coal laid down by this Parliament has to be repealed, as it were, because such a law has not actually been enacted, in which the burning of coal ends in 2029. There is a law that says, if I remember correctly, that if the supply and security of supply so require, then coal can continue to be used. What is the view of domestic fuel, which is self-employed, to force it out of the market so that easy-to-storage coal can be replaced? At least it is not very useful for the competitiveness of the Finnish forest industry, and it is not very useful for the climate either. In addition to the introduction of images, I would like to announce common sense and familiarisation with the real world, what is happening in companies and companies that are engaged in wood maintenance and peat maintenance in Finland. Then there is another thing about how new technology can replace peat and the decline in coal — heat pumps, heat recovery, flue-gas scrubbers and all the others that are already in use. And I believe that by further developing them, with two decades or perhaps more, we will be able to achieve good results from the climate point of view. In other words, an artificial and politically motivated obsession with climate and peat and energy policy can easily lead to nothing but damage to companies, damage to Finnish employment, and it will have little to do with the climate in a positive sense. In this respect, I feel that the government's exits are contradictory and the view that in some way a ban on a single small issue would be relevant and, at the same time, when it is said that deforestation must be reduced and open felling prohibited,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u109	Mr President! I'll start with the 21st of September. Last fall. It had the title: ‘Chinese emissionsreturnedto rise,caused by a smoke pipe resuscitation’. This case is based on the reports of the Chinese emission reporter, Greenpeace Energy Analyst Lauri Myllyvirta, and he says that last year, in the first half of the year, China’s emissions increased by 4%, which means an increase of almost one percentage point to global emissions. It goes on to say: ‘The importance of China’s climate change is a major factor, since Think about it, over one quarter. This is the reason why, for example, the Finns and I have been talking today about the countries and sources and the root reasons that really matter. Here is another example of how Chinese emissions may increase in a month — increase in a month — by the same amount as we have in Finland as a whole. This is the reason why, just before the Minister left, I wanted to hear what impressive measures we, as a Member State of the EU or Finland, are doing for these real problems. I myself believe, as the Finns have said, that the climate has changed. We only have different types of emphasis and different means, because we want effectiveness, and that is what happens when we influence countries like China, for example. Minister Mikkonen used the word carbon duty, as I remember, the Finns of Finland have had such a climate customs duty, which we have been talking about for several years now, which could also include such things as the introduction of a climate customs duty in the EU as, for example, the use of child labour. It is not only a matter of calculating some kind of customs duty on the basis of the product's pollution, but also of how it takes account of these types of issues. It is good to note that if the government now puts pressure on the EU and China, for example, for this type of action. I was actually quite concerned when it comes to the fact that our young people are concerned, and perhaps rightly so when we talk about this climate change all the time. But they imagine very far that the solution now lies in the fact that we are flogging ourselves here, and the Finns are beating ourselves as far as possible out of our misery. I am deeply concerned about this atmosphere and the fact that there were speeches here that we want to be admired when we are on the international table. We do not need any admiration; we need concrete measures to ensure that we have sustainable development on the planet, that we have population growth and that we have more people on the planet, so that there are no particular continents where the population is booming. There will then be natural resources in suitable use, there will be no overpopulation in such a way that there will be enough space for people to grow and live, there will be clean water and this type of water. As an export product, Finns could export good infra, water systems, electricity systems, many kinds of innovations, and that would be such good exports and good ideas. But somehow I do not personally understand — but it can be that I have in this way that I simply do not understand — this hype in the fact that we flogged the average Finnish person through fuel taxation,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u112	Mr President! This first annual climate report shows that good work has been done in our country in many respects. When we cultivate and preserve creation, I believe that this means that we solve emissions, emissions problems, especially where, as Mr Meri said above, it happens most, and that we are developing new technology and exporting it as a larger player to the world, for example through development cooperation, which some parties would be willing to cut. It is also important that we mobilise new investments through the proposed climate fund. This idea of cultivation and conservation also involves encouraging all of us to do things that are sustainable in everyday life. I would like to raise one aspect of the report which should be taken into account in the preparation and planning. It relates to the situation of owners of detached houses raised by Mr Kauma. The report points out that emissions from separate heating of buildings have been declining in recent years, but there is an annual variation due to weather, among other things. The falling trend is due to lower oil heating and improved energy efficiency in buildings. The majority of separate heating emissions are caused by oil heating. Emissions are expected to decrease further as a result of the renewal of the building stock, renovation and changes in heating systems. The medium-term climate policy plans have set out that the government will abandon oil heating by 2025. In addition, all public actors are encouraged to do the same. The transition from oil to biomass has been rapid in recent years. It is important that solutions take into account people and families living in sparsely populated areas. Among them are those who find the present discussion partly to blame, even frightening. I got an e-mail from a worried family man who lives in a small village, a country, and who can't just sell his house because it doesn't sell. He writes: ‘Prohibiting oil heating,is this even in relation to the equality of citizens? This applies mainly to those living in detached houses, as the blocks of flats and terraced houses are almost all in district heat. How do you feel about low incomes, a retired person, such as me, who has become seriously ill in working life and now suffers life imprisonment for underprivileged earnings? This option has been used to flash off geothermal heat, costing between EUR 18000 and EUR 20000. That option is in no way realistic at the current level of income, which is around EUR 1250 per month, and there is no small investment grant here. If the government is blocking the heating of its own home, I expect a replacement on that side. “ Thus writes a father who has experienced many cuts and challenges throughout his life, such as fair calculation of the real value of child supplements, the abolition of child deduction from taxation and the removal of domestic help in support of families with children. Of course, the government is already improving these matters, but there is enough work to build a Finland that is child-friendly and family-friendly and respectful of nature and sustainable. Climate issues are not separate issues from other decision-making. We must take into account the overall situation of people and families in climate plans. It will be part of the government's regionally and socially just and sustainable climate policy. Mr President! Instead of culpability, we need to implement a solution-oriented and common-minded climate policy, where the transition to a bio- and circular economy is important. We treat forests in a sustainable way so that they grow well. Develop biodiversity through the Metso programme, increase the share of biofuels in motoring, focus on effective actions. At best, climate action brings new vitality and entrepreneurship to the countryside, where many people who live in the narrowness of the city dream of moving. It will be possible to live in Finland as a whole. Investing in adaptation measures as the climate changes. In climate solutions, we create hope for the future, not forgetting agriculture and the production of clean food.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u113	Mr President! Thank you very much for the Climate Year Report 2019. With regard to climate policy, you can rightly say that there is Finnish climate sense in the air. In other words, drinks will be put into what is most important in the context of climate change mitigation. It is the replacement of polluting fossil fuels, mainly imported from abroad, with domestic renewables. Finland takes a big leap towards a bio- and circular economy. This is a rational policy that Finland needs. At the same time, then, we have every opportunity to reduce emissions and create new jobs throughout the country. Our natural resources are in the provinces and in the countryside. President! Some of the most important decisions of the Vuosaari climate conference were the Climate Fund and the reduction of the electricity tax on industry. The Climate Fund strengthens public and private financial flows towards clean solutions and a climate-friendly circular economy. The Fund will be used to promote digitalisation and low-carbon industry. The Climate Fund is a good example of realistic climate policy. Lowering the industrial electricity tax to the EU minimum will support industrial electrification and create predictability for companies. Predictability is important for companies to have the courage to invest in Finland at all. At the same time, it is the government's response to SSAB and other companies planning clean investments. Work on sustainable forest policy has been carried out in Finland for a long time. Sustainable forests play a major role in the fight against climate change due to their ability to bind carbon dioxides. We are also working very actively to prevent various types of forest damage, such as insect damage, plant diseases and forest fires. In Finland, forests are well managed and the growth of forests is strong. Biodiversity will also be developed through the Metso programme. We must also do everything possible to ensure that as many forest industry investments as possible across Finland are realised. It is not just a matter of explaining it. Wood is an opportunity for any material from clothing to biodegradable plastic and anticancer medicines. A sensible green policy, as Mr Kinnunen said, involves the principle of cultivation and conservation. Of course, Finland's nature should not be destroyed. Its diversity must be maintained in all situations. One solution for reducing emissions from transport is to increase the share of biofuels. For example, biogas offers great potential both for reducing emissions in transport and as new sources of income for regions. Already at the moment, we produce more biogas than we use in transport. The share of biogas-powered cars in transport should therefore be increased. Of course, the condition of roads and other routes must also be improved in order to move the raw materials of the bio- and circular economy. As a result, EUR 300 million was added to the basic roads already for this year. That, too, is climate policy. President! With these solutions, Finland will play its part in mitigating climate change. And Mr Meri, yes, on a world scale, it is important to get the big polluters, above all the big powers and the large multinationals, finally to act. Finland will play its part, but it also requires others to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u115	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! In some ways, the word comes to mind that this time we are living in now seems to be the ‘golden decade’ of climate distress. Among children and young people, there has been some way to raise the limit of this climate change... Could it be said that people have even been turned on to this issue of climate distress quite absurdly in my opinion, and I do not quite understand the fact that young people, children and young families are being intimidated with these things to the full. I would like to say a few words about what I have said before, so I am definitely in favour of that wood construction. It is a good and important thing, and perhaps in it Parliament and the government could do even more that, for example, primary schools, day-care centres and all such buildings, which can now be single or double-deck, should be started with a log construction and a safe roll base solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u120	Mr President! A few more comments here, in addition to the climate issue, the climate policy, what I said earlier. Firstly, the reduction of emissions must be long-term. It is worth trying to do that by sensible means. The kind of forced bladder in which decisions are taken quickly can lead to a negative direction, which means more emissions. The fastest and best aid can be achieved in Finnish climate policy — which is also reflected in the climate year report in the coming years — by increasing carbon sinks. It is the easiest way for us, we know it, and it is definitely the most effective and long-acting. This means that we are putting our forests in a better condition — we have 21 million hectares of forest — by putting those seedlings in order, by making thinnings on time and by reforming forests so that the vitality is preserved. It is absolutely certain that if forests are not reformed, then the vitality will be lost and the carbon sink of the forest will become an emission. That's what happened in Germany last summer. When it was a warm summer, the old forests died up there because of the loss of life force. Another cause of death for their forests was the failure to perform care and thinnings. 100 million mounds of wood died, and there are huge environmental damage when insects and maggots of all the world work there. In any case, the management of forests is the key issue. It can then be hydrated with peat soils by carrying out ash incinerators. One of the three to four tons of ash per hectare, cost is not expensive, and the new Kemera law provides a small contribution to this. It is easy to grow between 1 and 3mots of peatland, which It is quite easy to find an annual growth bonus of 10 million kiltmot. I'm sure you will. Then, while we are still putting those forests in order, with ten years of aid, we can easily achieve an additional 20 million mots growth. It is 20 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent, which saves it, and the carbon sink is growing. So, after that, we'll have this carbon balance in order. We do not have to bow down to Europe. Let us be examples, but let us be examples in the region where we are strongest. We're not going brasing in that area, which we don't really know how to do. But we know how to do forestry, and above all we know how to do it. And it is worth remembering when energy is produced, the cooperation between forests and the forest industry: the forest produces raw materials and the forest industry makes sure that they become good products for export, and above all they produce a huge amount of energy. Everyone knows, for example, that Äänekoski's new bioproduct plant, a huge pulp mill, produces a terrible amount of electricity and then all the process heat and it warms up all the surrounding urban areas at the same time. In other words, if the forest industry works, energy will come at the same time, and at the same time all good things will come to the national economy, marketable products and, above all, strong Finnish expertise. At the same time, the metal industry — neither Ponsse nor John Deere or other producers of forest machinery would live if there were no use for the forests. It will also strengthen the metal industry and the chemical industry and the energy industry. So, when we're talking about a little piece, you have to have the courage to look at the whole thing. And then, when it comes to peatland fertilization, it has a lasting effect of between 25 and 30 years. By doing the job we can enjoy 30 years of good forest growth without doing any more then. Of course, later we can do that thinning again, and grow it up. Our water economy will improve and nutrient drains into water will decrease, because ash fertilisation will not produce food emissions into water, and climate policy will be managed by its own means without further investment. Besides, all of this is paid for by forest owners themselves. There will be little cost to the State. Increasing tax revenue, of course. And then, when this is done, then we must take such a measure that we increase the construction of wood. As some honourable Members have said, the increase in wood construction is always a noble act, and in the long term it will greatly improve our carbon balance. Take a look at these huge concrete stoves that are being built in this city. Some Triplan mall, a huge concrete concentration. What happens at Malmi Airport, it has been in the press for a long time, has been running a huge amount of carbon dioxide emissions. I have not heard many comments in this Chamber yet on what to do with it. What about what is done about it — it is quite right, of course, that Finland stays on the map of the world — when, for example, this huge expansion of Helsinki Airport will bring terrible carbon dioxide emissions to the Finnish atmosphere in the future. The number of aircraft is increasing like crazy, and that means that emissions are increasing at the same rate. We always pay attention to what the carbon emissions from that little cottage lady's shopping trip are, but when that big jumbo goes up in the sky, no one seems to be falling and no one seems to be interested in them. Look at the whole, and do not blame the housewife from Hyurmantz or the elderly lady who goes to the store to buy buns and coffee for her husband in a wheelchair. I think that grandma still needs to get that shopping trip done.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u125	Mr President! The Finnish Parliament should primarily promote the interests of Finns in everything, and of course it should also be very strongly reflected in the Climate Year Report. The Climate Year Report is like a suffering manual that praises the EU's climate objectives that are detrimental to Finland and Finland, which are also more than utopian. Everyone with a head understands that man-made contribution to climate change is only part of it, and the contribution of Finns to this global phenomenon is as insignificant as the pee of one herring in the Baltic Sea. There are already too many people in the world, but why is it that nobody dares to talk about this global problem while talking about man-made environmental and climate problems? Now we pose with climate change even by flying the Prime Minister on a private plane to climate summits. If we are genuinely concerned about the climate, we must start a global debate on how to stop the population explosion that is harmful to the climate in developing countries. In addition to the above, Finland’s best climate action is to support Finnish production and work. Too high emissions targets drive production out of Finland, which results in increased emissions of consumer goods and products from other parts of Finland. Mr President! At the end of the game, the main sufferers in this whole climate pose are ordinary Finns, especially those Finns who still work and pay for their own living, not to mention those who use the car for their business trips and heat their houses with oil after the Caruna scheme. Mr President! I support the protest of the Finns of Peru. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u126	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank all the representatives for a good debate on the annual climate report. There has also been a lot of positive painting in the future, but I am a little surprised at the opposition's debates and the opposition's statements that the industry is being taken away from this country. I do not know whether this annual climate report is part of it or some of the climate objectives. Mr President! I would like to point out here that, when it has also been mentioned that the government is banning open fellings or that the government is reducing the use of wood, this is not the case. In this regard, Mrs Hoskonen has already pointed out that forest land suitable for wood production in this country is about 20 million hectares, and I must remind this Chamber that only about one and a half per cent of this area of Finland's economic forests is cut annually. In other words, it contains 300,000 hectares, of which the remainder is 150,000 hectares and the other half is 150,000 hectares. So we talk about a percentage point as small as one and a half percentage points. I would like to remind you that, when there is also talk here about promoting wood construction, which is just the coal stocks, we still have the money to make these final fellings and thus to get a supply of raw materials in the direction of the mechanical wood industry, making sure that there is progress in the construction of wood. I would also like to point out, Mr President, that the debate on peat has taken place, that the government has set up a broad-based working group on peat which, according to my information, would start its work now in March, and that the group will see how the use of peat is directed in a controlled way towards innovative products at a higher processing level instead of incineration, when energy use is supposed to be halved by 2030, and how the change in peat use takes place in a regional and socially just way. In other words, let me remind you that this is not the moment when we are about to catch up with the burning of peat, but that we are going to find out how it will be done socially and regionally justly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u127	Mr President! Finland has defined itself as an Arctic country, and that is why we must be particularly ambitious, because climate change affects the most extreme regions. That means us, the Arctic. We have a huge amount of natural resources and water that we must protect in the future. Finland is the only entity that can protect Finnish nature and the environment, to ensure that natural resources are used in a rational, prudent way. Since Finland is an Arctic region, it is also in northern gaming sites. The Arctic region brings together three continents and eight countries. For this reason, it is also worth remembering that Finland itself is doing climate action, Finland is part of the Nordic countries and Finland is also committed to EU and global climate policy. That is why I would also like to see an Arctic perspective in the future climate report, since we have established ourselves as such strategically. Mr. Speaker! I am particularly pleased with the fact that this report takes account of the rapid, medium-term and long-term measures and the road map towards them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u128	Mr President! The Climate Year Report 2019 has been interesting to read and, of course, this debate, which has also taken place in this Chamber, has been very useful to listen to. As we all know here, the EU alone, and especially the small Finland involved, will not solve climate change. Here, too, we know that the Government’s goal of carbon neutrality in Finland as the first country in 2035 is at least over-optimistic, and being the world’s example at the expense of the economy and the well-being of its citizens is not a sensible policy. If we are the first country in the world to achieve this goal, I will not be able to answer it. But in many respects we are already pioneers in the world. Is there any reason to exaggerate the objectives? I believe that the use of reason, as has also been said in several speeches, is also permissible in this area. Let us take a few examples. An electric car is seen as one of the solutions to climate change. According to the latest information, the introduction of renewable biodiesel is less polluting to the atmosphere than an electric car. For example, according to Neste’s own calculations, a diesel car produces 12 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometre with the renewable fuel they produce when a full electric car loaded from Finland’s electricity grid produces 29 grams per kilometre. This is because electricity produced in Finland is not free from fossil carbon dioxide. The future of diesel cars looks brighter than has been thought in recent years. However, the current policy clearly wants to contribute to reducing the stock of diesel cars. You can already see this in the car shop. Any modern diesel cars that have been used and are extremely low-emission will be credited less for new cars than for petrol cars. Threats have even suggested that the price of diesel in the tank would rise to EUR 2. This, if anything, would increase the depopulation of the countryside in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u131	Mr President! I, too, thank you for this debate on the annual climate report, and I must say that the fact, or at least the message I have received, that some of the Finns in Finland do not even believe in climate change as a whole,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u134	Mr President! There have been good discussions here, and I repeat my own view that I personally have been a little disappointed and perhaps sad about the way this climate debate has been taken away specifically from the media and perhaps from certain parties, even ministers. It is a little irresponsible that we are scaring young people by not being able to live here on Earth when climate change comes. These issues should be dealt with a little more responsibly. In fact, Mr Hänninen expressed these feelings, and I agree that climate change is a fact, and I do not believe that in this Chamber any Members of Parliament will disagree. Then there's another thing, that Finland is on a good path, that our emissions are decreasing all the time, that technology is developing. It takes a certain amount of time. But the way in which, for example, private drivers and motoring are constantly being blamed and intimidated by what kind of two-euro media tricks, and people are calling me to see if they can buy diesel. The car dealership's a mess. There's a car dealership. What do you think about this kind of thing, because if you really want to — and there are also government parties here — if you really want to reduce emissions from traffic, the most sensible thing is to abolish the car tax, that people can afford to buy new low-emission cars that are also safer, and to achieve better the goal of less people dying in traffic. The current situation is that, due to the climate debate, the focus of the car trade has partly shifted to the trade in second-hand cars and to the import of 40,000, even more, from abroad, Sweden and Germany, and we are doing nothing and we see that these transport emissions targets, that we halve transport emissions by 2030, will escape with this wrong tax policy. The city centre is involved in raising and making life difficult for people in sparsely populated areas, you are raising taxes on transport fuels. [MarkusLohi requests a reply ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u135	Mr Salmon, you will be able to respond in your own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u136	Mr President! I will continue with this depopulation of the countryside, which is probably the intention of this government,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u139	Mr President! A few further comments include the sharing of know-how and good practices and successes on the road to achieving the objective of carbon neutrality. By means of a networked approach, the Syken Hinku Forum, Canemure, FIssu, the climate municipalities of the municipal association and, among other things, municipalities linked to the municipal energy efficiency agreement have gathered and disseminated important knowledge and experience of successful actions. Municipal climate work has proven to be impressive and profitable. For example, the municipality of Ii saves EUR 2 million annually with active climate work. The activities of the Ministry of the Environment and the funds allocated to municipalities for climate work have not been large in the past, but allow for cooperation between different actors and for more effective and effective ways of experimenting. Municipalities and regions also need new tools and indicators to measure results. This is where Mr Mäenpää can compromise that these research and development funds should also be taken care of for cleantech. Such awareness-raising and incentives for change are also needed by consumers. Emissions from household consumption are also on the increase and therefore there is a need for consumption-based reporting and facts. Reporting on the monitoring of emissions from consumption has been developed from the Nordic countries, at least in Sweden, and the development of the Nordic monitoring model could therefore contribute to climate policy guidance. I have never seen or heard a finger pointing at consumers. Rather, efforts to build ways to make it easier for all to combat climate change, whether on land or in cities. For example, rail solutions would work for everyone in reducing flights. A few more figures from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to the somewhat questionable increase in wind power here. Wind power accounts for between 9 and 10 per cent of electricity production at the moment, and if the increase were made to 30%, this would affect more than 20 billion investments in Finland, over 50 million real estate tax revenues per year for municipalities. These will not end up here in the capital region, but precisely where we have room to build wind power. Between 9 and 18 million tonnes of CO2 emission reduction per year is about 17,000 person-years of work. Direct export income or production replacing imports would be around EUR 1.2 billion if it was priced at EUR 40 per megawatt hour. And these were TEM figures. This is the use of reason that has been called for here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u140	Mr President! Now a little information has come from the opposition on this fuel taxation, so we have to cut these short. When the argument was raised here that even the price of diesel per litre would go up to EUR 2 per pump, that is not true. Mr Eestilä, you are a man who has been on a long line, I am such a beginner that I have to cheat right here on this note. In other words, it is true that according to the Government Programme, the taxation of fossil fuels will be increased by EUR 250 million in line with the projected increase in consumer prices during the parliamentary term and the increase will be fully implemented as from 1 August 2020. The average tax increase for petrol and replacement products is 5.3 cents per litre and for diesel and its replacement fuels is 5.6 cents per litre. Given the impact of VAT on motor petrol and its substitutes, these increases will increase the price of motor gasoline by around 6.6 cents per litre, and the price of typical 95-engine petrol is estimated to increase by around 4%, as these percentages have now been reviewed here. The VAT price for diesel oil and biofuels replacing it will rise to about 6.9 cents per litre. I would also like to point out here that the double-counted paraffinic biodiesel sold at 100 % — that is to say, the My-diesel of Liquid, which has been mentioned—has not become more expensive. So that the price of biodiesel will not increase. That is what I would like to highlight in this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u141	Mr President! In this debate, it has been pointed out little by the finger that which party here has increased fuel tax on motorists and threatened that the increases will be so high in the future that there will soon be a curfew in rural areas because no one can afford to move. I would not paint such an unfortunate future, although, to be honest, an increase in fuel tax is a bad thing. But if we look back 20 years, no one can really point the finger at others or by name at any party, but even the assembly, which has been in the government for 16 years, will have to look more in the mirror that ‘we’ve been doing other things with similar decisions,we’ve bought a fuel tax,and in our own election programme we’re proposing that the price of heating fuels should be increased by EUR150million,there are no alternatives available for those rural dwellers who have bought a house to be heated with fuel oil. “ That it is worth it for everyone here, if there is a party of motorists gathering, to look first in the mirror before that party is drawing up the founding documents. But I can tell you that I'm part of it myself: I have two diesel cars at home and they're not exactly a match.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u148	Mr President! Yes The salmon washed the laundry and the story in the center so that we could forget what we were discussing. I'd like to go back to those electric cars. You speak very much for them in the government, and when you look at the news from the world about the mining of the cobalt, it is quite a carnage. It involves child labour, corruption, armed groups and tax avoidance, not to mention environmental disasters — this is worth taking into account. Then we talk about a lot of new cars. Representative In my opinion, the hillhead spoke well in that earlier that this emissions package should also count on the emissions generated by making these new cars. But I initially reserved this speech because Mr Hänninen said, first of all, that it has been suggested here in the Chamber that it is being accused or harassed by motorists and self-inhabitants. If you have noticed, that is where some time ago Economic Research commissioned a study in which it stated that the government is paying for its climate policy in motorised and detached homes, so that this is not like the intimidation of the opposition, but this is just researched information, that is what it is. And that study also found that those who are the least paid, who live in the capital region and who cycle, are more in favour of these increases. This is a good thing to take into account. This is not intimidation, it is the fact that the payers will be found there and then it will be distressed. In addition, Mr Hänninen, you said that the Finns of Finland, as a party, do not admit climate change. In fact, our chairman, Halla-aho, came into the Chamber a moment ago, and he has often told us, as representatives of our party have said, that we recognise climate change, that we only have a slightly different — and not so much different — means than you do in terms of how we act fairly. In my speech, I pointed out that we should invest in those countries that pollute. Among other things, I explained that China's emissions are one quarter of global emissions and that China's increase in emissions over one month corresponds to our emissions throughout the year. That is why we want effectiveness, not lily straws, which ruin Finnish life, which affects employment, entrepreneurship, even the problem of matching jobs, which is so much talked about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u149	Mr President! It is very good that Mr Meri corrected my incorrect, outdated information. I did say that some of the Finns have said so. I did not say that the Finns as a Party would have denied or this kind of position taken, but very good. Now, who comes to me to say that, so I can say, do not talk nonsense, namely, the Finns of Peru agree with climate change. In other words, I think it is very important that this has now been said many times in this Chamber, even though it has indeed come from the field of misinformation. As a politician and as a decision-maker, I, too, am genuinely and genuinely concerned that this debate on climate anxiety, for example, is also somewhat understating. In other words, Mr Meri said that the government's actions are directed at households, motorists, certainly those who eat.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u152	Mr President! Much has happened since the parliamentary groups except the Finns of Finland committed themselves to that absurd agreement on climate policy in autumn 2018. However, quite a change has taken place in all other parliamentary groups and parties in a more reasonable direction. Unfortunately, there is no sign of that change in the government yet. So now we are beginning to see what this huge fuss is about to lead to. The amounts are huge. The EU is talking about an investment of 1000 billion in climate policy, and when we know what kind of procedure decisions are taken in the EU — there are lobats, bribes, very violent misuses of money, our money — we know that this kind of money is dangerous for all of us. Of course, at EU level – as at national level, as we do at individual level – it makes sense to take a wide range of measures to combat climate change, but this speed and fuss, which has been here for over a year, in particular, has been very dangerous and has caused this anxiety. We already have Finns who eat a lot of antidepressants anyway. We should look at how much this has added to it. We have now come to a much more sensible level, and we have heard good speeches here, particularly with regard to this group, which is now here. Thank you to Mr Hänninen, who in the Left Alliance seems to represent the most sensible line. If you can get your own team and party on this sensible line, then there is hope. Similarly, green ones may gradually find realism that gives us hope. Many important things have been said here, and this housing and transport are key issues, Mr Eestilä spoke very well. We should all go live in the countryside for a few years — to see what life there is, when there is no means of transport, there is nothing but that old car and then that possibly oil-warming house. Such people have also contacted me and have been very concerned: What are you politicians doing? Are you guys going to put us in a tight spot? The question of peat is another. This is where the centre line was completely open, when Mrs Hoskonen and Mrs Salmon were speaking completely across the board with regard to peat. Hoskonen brought wood from the whole of Europe to be burned in Finland, and Mr Salmon said that everything is in order, that peat is abandoned and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u153	Mr President! There is no big difference between Representative Salmon and the signatory. There may be differences in the purchase of wood, but we can come back to that later. As far as the good speech by Mr Hänninen is concerned, I wish him every success in the next presidency race, perhaps. It is a policy that is being made when it comes to seeking more and more responsible places. But to the point. With regard to the annual climate report, Petteri Talasmaa, the magazine clipping of the current president of the World Meteorological Organization is on my desk and also on that place. That's what I always watch at night when despair strikes. It says it's still not the end of the world. This is not the end of the world, for climate policy's sake, no matter what we do. Finland can only influence it by keeping its own nest clean. The first important thing to note is that the more we use domestic combustible materials, the wiser we are and the cleaner we do. Peat is alloy fuel. We can't get anywhere from it. And we still have a security of supply law in force in this country, which climate politicians should remember. We cannot drive the nation’s security of supply down on the basis that someone thinks it’s sexy to stop using peat. That's not gonna happen. Then the parliament violates the laws it has passed itself, or the law must be changed. And I believe that security of supply is so important to us that we cannot do that. Then, if the peat is stopped: We produced CHP in 2017, i.e. combined heat and power production, 24.2 per cent of the total electricity production. Of course it's got this coal in it. The home of over a million people warms up with peat. If the peat is removed, this calculation goes completely out of control. And remember, ladies and gentlemen, when it is very cold, that heat production combined with electricity generation will produce 40% of our excess electricity at the time of the severest frosts. Where on earth do you take that electricity when you can't even get it from Nord Pool in the cold? Well, it does, but it costs up to 200 times as much as the normal electricity price. There is no such representative in this Chamber who says that I will pay for it. No, it's not. It is absolutely outrageously expensive when it is determined by the market price. The price of electricity is not only taken at the extra amount you need at the moment, but it paints the full price of the entire electricity use. You'll pay the full price for the first megawatt hour. So don't play with this, colleagues. This is a gravely serious matter for whoever pays the electric bill. The home of over a million people warms up in CHP power plants with peat alloy fuel. If we stop using peat, all those wet barks, wood chips, sawdust, unruly timber that is not suitable for any other processing will not burn or produce electricity. Or rather, they burn, but they don't produce energy. But when you put the dry peat in it, we'll achieve maximum power.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u158	Mr President! In the interests of honesty, I must say that Mr Hoskos has the right line to take. I personally agree and base my view on the fact that I am, however, in favour of the forestry industry and that I am in favour of the jobs of the entire forest industry cluster in Finland. That is why I, too, have to see in the same way as Mr Hoskonen, that if we now have mixed fuel, what peat is and where investments have been made, we would have to tackle it with too much taxation, it would increase the burning of wood, [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude] What is likely to happen now if this peat is still being harassed, now that it has already been harassed from two directions by tax increases — emissions trading and then tax increases made in 2018 — it will reduce the burning of peat, increase the burning of wood, and the price of energy wood will come quite close to what is the price of fibrewood. But the price of fibrewood cannot go up very much, because then new investments in Finland are at risk. Of course, they are in danger with the decisions and interpretations of the Supreme Administrative Court, but they are also in danger because of this other one. There is a special way for politicians and ministries if they leave the risk that investments in the forest industry in Finland will no longer be realised. However, it is this legislation which allows coal to be used in terms of security of supply and security of supply, and it would be quite extraordinary if a certain tax policy were to drive peat out of the range of fuels and use imported coal. There is security of supply and security of supply in the background, because too quickly this technology cannot bend, because it is not for sale, even if it is a question of money. At the same time, this will increase the price of energy, the price of district heat, and it will pose a risk to the entire district heating network that people and housing companies will switch to geothermal heat, from which there are still too positive calculations presented on the market. That is why we must manage this whole, how we deal with tax policy. Representative Salmon, I agree with you on turf that it is not worth arguing about when it is automatically handled and in a certain way halves, which is the will of the government. I would almost like to say that there is no point in arguing over these cars, when people will soon not be able to afford to drive, this policy will also lead to that. I am approaching this because the most dangerous thing in politics is that there is one thing and an agenda to be stared at and made decisions on. Now that I can speak and not, Mr President, very much go away from it if I start talking about poverty in families with children and pension poverty, because they are linked to government policy. We all know, as Mr Meri has said here, without financial research and whatever, that one of the causes of pension poverty and child poverty is that housing has risen, mobility has risen and health care has risen. If the indices that apply to pensioners were taken into consideration in a slightly different way, it would give a completely different end to the index. So these entities need to be controlled.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u163	Mr President! After all, this is not a very far-reaching way of thinking for the representatives of Eestilä and Hoskonen and even for the signatories. I did not just say that peat should be ducked, but I specifically said that since the industry, guided by the emissions trading sector, is gradually reducing it, adapting to all other possible fuels that can be used from the peat farm, we do not have to burden peat with separate taxes or bans, because it will automatically decrease in this decade. Vapo has said that by 2026 it will be halved. That is why it would be a kind of mistake to go now to burden that industry with taxes or bans like this, because rather that energy should be used to ensure how we can ensure that the threat picture does not materialise, what representatives of Hoskonen and Eestilä here said was that we are going to get into trouble in that we are going to start using material wood there in the peat farm in pots or to import wood from Russia, which does not make sense. I'd rather have domestic fuel. This is probably a rather broad consensus in this Chamber — everyone seems to be nodding there on the left and the Greens’ side that this is something to do. [Laughter] Three more things, one of which is oil heating. It is not wise to do so by raising the tax on oil heating fuels and then by using the same money to compensate those who, in a way, have problems with this, but it is a matter of public authority to go and build a bridge for those people. After all, they continue to consume it then, and others pay, and others who cannot afford to pay will be compensated. We'd rather build solutions for them to replace that oil-heated property with some other fuel. After all, we have changed the paradigm in that a couple of years ago in this Chamber was allowed to ask the Minister if it is so that the electric car will save the world and the electric house will destroy. It makes no sense when it is the same electricity, and now the paradigm has changed so that it is no longer this way, but also the chairman of the climate panel says that it would make sense now for that oil-heated house to be electricity-heated if it is not sensible for something else, and that is something that air heat and other pumps will then be used in a sensible way. The investment is reasonable. Now for these people, who are, first of all, unaware of what is wise, or who do not necessarily have the money to make any expensive investment there — there may be pensioners who think that they cannot build any expensive heat pump there — it would be worth making society such a package where the cost of heating does not rise on a monthly basis, i.e. building a certain ten-year package to replace the heating system with a more rational one for them. This is perfectly possible and realistic to build. In this way, instead of creating anxiety on these climate issues, people are building hope and a view that, hey, this is being handled in a smart way: you get rid of oil, and maybe electricity will be replaced and then air heat pumps or some kind of geothermal heat, if that is reasonable, or even pick-up or pellet. This is the way we can do it, instead of now here as we try to create some kind of anxiety.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u166	Mr President! Today there has been a very rewarding and commendable debate in this Chamber, and in part even entertaining. It certainly restores to me such faith in the culture of this Parliament's debate and its well-being. Great conversation. I would like to make one point about this debate about climate, and this is the front line and the example of the fight against climate change, which Mr Hänninen mentioned, among other things, and yes it wants to be that it seems that the government is trying to be in the front line at all costs, and such very ambitious targets that are 15 years earlier carbon neutral than the rest of the EU, mean that we are further undermining Finland's competitiveness and making all-looking efforts difficult in this country. If you look at this from the perspective of the forest industry, for example, the result of the forest industry in Finland is something that is five per cent aware of there, while in Sweden, for example, it is 15 per cent aware of it, and in Sweden it is allowed to hack the forest one and a half times more than in Finland. Of course, we can understand from these figures that it is precisely these very ambitious objectives that are actually undermining competitiveness in these sectors which, in fact, bring us a great deal of profits both from exports and from domestic sales. Of course, it must be nice for the world to say that it is right in the front line and as an example of climate change, but it just wants to be true that many of the international waters, abroad, have little difficulty understanding even where it is, so the sacrifice we make about being an example is very expensive and difficult. That when we make these climate decisions, we always have to start thinking from the point of view of how it affects entrepreneurship, because it is only the case that entrepreneurs are the ones who keep this country upright and on top of the surface of the nose. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u167	Mr President! Just a little more — let me start with that recollection of the old ones. I was at the United Nations Conference on Development and the Environment in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, where this Millennium Development Goal was set for environmental policy, and it must be said that since 92 C.E., Finland has been extremely exemplary throughout the world. We cannot be criticised today for Finland's failure to do its part in everything. Now our share of global CO2 emissions is slightly over the prom. Think of the fuss, the scream and the billions that are ready to be rolled to remove this per mill. It is all right to try, but these figures do not have any reason for this situation, where Finland is, while China, India, even Poland, Germany add or at least are on a completely different planet in this respect. We should not be in such a mood, but we should be making sense of it, doing everything that makes sense for Finland: supporting or at least promoting the fact that Finnish industrial production stays here and does not go where it is allowed to pollute freely, and keeping jobs here and giving people the right to drive their own car throughout the country, to live where it wants to live, and not to punish them for these. Mr President! This realism has been forgotten in this promille war that is now taking place, and the poor rural people are now in the greatest danger. Downtown, go back to the embryo line, the cause of the poor, the cause of the countryside, and you can still get support. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u170	Mr President! There has been a very diverse and interesting debate here. In his own speech, Mr Eestilä raised the point that the fight against climate change should be related to other issues of social importance, and that is what this report also states. I myself would like to raise the issue of demographic policy here, namely that we are also doing a disservice to the fight against climate change if we send out signals that children are counted as emission sources. Finland's best potential investment, i.e. what we can give in this climate struggle, is in the fields of education, research, innovation and product development. And in order for us to have this knowledge in the future, we need these factors and, on the other hand, a sustainable economic basis for society, which can then be intelligently promoted in a sustainable climate and environmental policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u171	Mr President! The representative Kankaanniemi, the spirit of the Association of Maalainenliitto lives, realism in the centre of Finland has not been forgotten.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u174	Mr President! Congressman Kankaanniemi, the center does not have to return to any line. We have always represented a rational green line, a realistic line, and a rational green line means that we want to do our part and take care of our nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u185	Mr President! I have listened to this debate, and it has been the idea that I will not participate in it myself when somehow I do not recognize the situation picture of this debate. This is very old-fashioned thinking and a threat has been created here that effective climate action would despoil Finland when, in fact, it is quite the opposite. I come from Lappeenranta, South Karelia. Lappeenranta is a traditional forest industry town, [Jussi Halla-aho’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u186	Mr President! We know that Mr Kankaanniemi is a good speaker who knows how to stimulate the people and he also knows how to stimulate parliamentarians. I ran out of that room myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u189	Mr President! I have not been thinking about contacting the Chinese emperor here, however, but I am sure that, politically and internationally, they will be settled rather than with the emperor. But Mr Kettunen, I would like to say to you that you did not listen. The representative, Mr Kankaanniemi, spoke very well that we are now on the hunt for promilles. That in the long term – as Mr Kankaanniemi said he had been involved for 30 years – Finland has done exceptionally much to reduce its own emissions, both our companies and our citizens and companies as a whole. We are now so infatuated with this permille hunt, when we should be infatuated with what I was talking about, for example, those countries that really matter. As I have taken today, for example, China, which produces one quarter of global emissions, that is where we should be investing now. In this speech by Mr Kettunen, as in later years, I noticed that the hunt for the prom continues and continues, and then we are so excited that we are going to do it and this and that more, and more are going to be ruined. And this targeting is not an invention of the opposition, but of the opposition. Economic research has examined these issues that they target motorists and single-family residents. This Survey of Economic Studies also gave an opinion on how the government intends to compensate the low incomes. This is a lot of drumming that ‘mecompensated’. Well, I haven't heard how you're going to compensate for it yet, but if it's through income tax, it's not going to be about those who have a very high cost of living and moving. And then it should be targeted specifically at the reduction in commuting expenses, and this is the way it is. And I've never heard of it. You've been drumming a lot about it, but I've never heard of it. This idea of Mr Salmon that you are rational greens was interesting. Well, of course, you like to call yourself rational, but then I don't know if they're crazy in general when you're looking for who you mean by them. I hope you don't have your own government partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u192	Mr President! I would also like to say to Mrs Lohe, who is, in fact, of all the people of the world with whom I have been in the forest the last time, that it was not a question of living in the same way as in the field with these things, but vice versa. This is unnecessary aggravating and strange in my opinion this is what you claim to be. It is true that when it comes to climate issues we must do everything we can to prevent change, but we cannot do everything, because that is simply not possible. Now it seems that the government is trying to do so, and I am afraid that it will even be ours. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u194	Mr President! It seems that the government and some representatives here also want to continue to be the welfare office of the entire earth and the savior of the whole earth in this Chamber. That road leads to destruction. Don't try it. Representative Ovaska, I would be born in your neighbourhood and I do want to protect the 100th—pirkanish landscape as perfectly as possible. It's great that you'll also take care of the village roads and the small roads.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u200	Mr President! It is indeed true that with Mr S.H.I.E.L.D. we were in the woods last time, or for me it was not the last time, but we did. Sometimes you have to go into the woods so you don't go into the woods when it comes to the woods. The forest is also a good place to stop — not only to refresh yourself but also to think about the world. When you listen here to Mr. Kankaanniemi, you act just as you accused the government of operating here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u212	Mr President! When listening to this debate, I believe that the whole of this climate debate is about to take place, could you say, in a more rational way and in a more strategic way of thinking here, because this report by the Committee on the Environment already states that it is therefore essential to look at the effectiveness, adequacy and related challenges of overall emissions, that is, climate policy as a whole, in relation to the carbon neutrality target set for 2035 and the achievement of negative emissions shortly thereafter? When Finland has started to produce this climate report, the starting point has been the climate law on the burden-sharing sector, and when we talk about the burden-sharing sector — as this report rightly points out — we talk about transport, heating, waste, agriculture; things that national legislation can influence, but quite often it is also the case that we come to a debate about how this affects an individual citizen and what is the socially just way of doing it then in that burden-sharing sector to reduce these emissions. However, if we look at the whole globe, they are the same emissions whether they come from the burden-sharing sector or they come from the emissions trading sector or, as we are talking about here, they want to include this land-use sector in the review. They don't know where they're from, do they? They're the same emissions. This classification comes from us people, from us legislators, in what way we want emissions from which source to be classified. What is difficult about this is that these emission prices are by no means of a common measure. In other words, in a certain way, we at national level can tighten up the pricing of these emissions and thus create this social injustice, and then, at the same time, there are very different ways of pricing the biggest emitters in the emissions trading sector, such as the energy sector, which produces 80% of emissions. That is why, in my own climate policy, I have tried to think about what is most important in terms of the overall picture, which, as it were, makes the most of the reductions in emissions and, at the same time, makes it possible to ensure that it makes economic sense. That is why, as a fellow Member has said here, even if we stop breathing in Finland, it does not in itself solve the issue, but we must look at this large-scale package. - Maybe I'll just say a few words about that... [ The speaker moves to the podium] Mr President! Let me finish with a few words. In other words, if we look at this vast whole, it would really be essential for us in the economy to be able to find energy production, which is emission-free, which does not produce more carbon dioxide in this atmosphere. Then we come to the question that has already been touched on in this Chamber, and I myself used to talk about it, namely that when we talk about the zero-emission electricity generation, we must understand that there is a considerable need for energy sources more than what we are currently talking about. We cannot produce it, for example, with renewable domestic electricity. This SSAB has been raised many times here, i.e. the former Raahen Rautaruukki. If we want to produce that factory's steel free of emissions, then that means that 20 per cent of Finland's electricity production will then be connected to that single factory, and then we have to understand that the transition to this kind of hydrogen economy requires huge amounts of energy to make it transition, and precisely zero-emission energy. That is why I feel that we sometimes talk about different things when we talk about these emission reductions. In fact, we are talking here about what each of us is putting in his mouth, while at the same time we should understand that it is a sort of big shift in the direction of the mega-class energy economy and whether we are prepared to think about what this huge amount of energy is, what the hydrogen economy needs, how it is going to be produced. For myself, at least at the moment, when new inventions have not yet come into existence, I see that nuclear power cannot be ignored very much in this debate. It is quite impossible to switch to zero-emission power generation in that category without a significant increase in nuclear power. Are we prepared to do so, and what other possibilities do we have, I think that this should be kept up in this debate all the time in order to understand this big picture.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u213	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank you again for this good debate. There have been many points of view and points of view in this debate, and the issue of the poor has also been discussed here. From this point of view, it is good to point out the idea of Santeri Alkio that we should always be very much on the poor side. And what is the best way to deal with a poor cause? The fact that you have a strong state treasury. Here the representative pointed out that the government is a world saver and a world social welfare office. Well, as a world saver, it is good to point out that cleantech, this Finnish technology, the operation of clean technologies, is already an important product for the Finnish economy. Here we have a huge potential for growth, as global and wide-ranging global issues are already being addressed to curb global warming. This is a good growth market for Finnish cleantech companies, and that's how we get more revenue into the state treasury, and that's how we make sure that the poor's cause is heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u214	Mr President! You have had a lively discussion here this afternoon and evening regarding the climate report 2019. We were a group of parliamentarians who met with the Chinese ambassador here a moment ago, which is why I was unable to participate in this debate, but you can guess that there was talk of climate change with the Chinese ambassador. At the end of my speech, I would like to make a few points about the debate which I am sure has also been on the table here today, that what responsibility Finland has in this regard compared to many actors, including the country I have just mentioned. I can make a few remarks about that. The representative, Mr Kankaanniemi, made an excellent speech here, in which he considered his own individual functionality in the fight against climate change, and, of course, he must admire that systematic approach. However, we all feel that individual efforts are needed, but climate change undoubtedly requires social efforts. We'll do it together as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u219	Mr President! A few more words from the point of view that Finland needs and is worth doing anything about. We should be able to share such understanding and vision that if and when the world wants to solve this climate change, it will mean that there will be a global shift to low carbon activity in all sectors. And now we should decide whether we are on that train or whether or not we want to and do not want to hang ourselves in Finland with this kind of sunset technology and sunset energy production. I don't think it's worth it. And in my opinion, fair change means that we support this transition, but fairness also means that we must create a vision for Finns and businesses precisely that we are not building such a trap, that we are offering the impression that no low-emission solutions should be implemented or that this transition could still be postponed. We must specifically encourage it and create a stable environment for all those people who make decisions about their own housing and mobility to be able to rely on the fact that, if they now make a low-emission solution and invest in it today, they can count on it to be the most profitable and economic solution in the long term. Not only are they able to be satisfied that they have been able to reduce their own climate emissions. This is the same for business investment. For example, there has been a debate here about the fact that many combustion plants need peat as a synergist. It is a good example that we have lacked such a vision. We also have incinerators built here within ten years, which have chosen such technical solutions that it is necessary to use peat as a synergist. It shows that we should have seen in this ten years already that it is absolutely necessary for Finland to give up peat and build such a transition that, once these combustion plants were built, the right technology would have been chosen there. In very many institutions this has been seen independently and the right solutions have been chosen. But then the big ones that haven't been done. But now, at the latest, we need to create that vision and vision so that these solutions will be particularly sensible in the future, from the point of view of the profitability of Finnish people and Finnish companies themselves and from the economic point of view as well, and to be able to trust that they will make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u220	Mr President! It is easy to continue with this speech by Mrs Holopainen. It goes just like this, when everyone does a little bit, it's gonna be a lot. That is why it is good to remember, also in this annual climate report, that these municipalities have been taken into account here as their own and how much municipalities and joint municipal authorities can do. For example, Imatra Imatra’s Heat uses side streams and forest by-products from the forest industry, while at the same time employing forest machinery entrepreneurs, transport operators and other operators together with industry. When an investment was made in a new heating plant, approximately 40 new jobs were calculated and, at the same time, the price of district heat for urban residents fell. These are now the measures that can be taken locally, as they will then be planned for further investment. You don't have to do them now and now, but at the point when you come to the end of the life of those plants, such as heating plants, or it's a water treatment plant or whatever. In addition, municipalities also have the purchase in their own hands. And from my hometown, I can tell you that we are about to have the largest wooden school in Finland at the moment, where it has also been taken into account that all energy solutions are being implemented here as a whole. Therefore, I would like to see this mirrored in the actions of last year's past, and also in the future, the fact that municipalities also play an important role in these climate works.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u221	Mr President! This is another idea that if Finland acts as a showman of the way, we can demand of others. It's the right argument, and it's been here many times. The second point that needs to be stressed here, and you have also stressed this in your speeches, is that, when new technologies are being developed to combat this climate change, if we first tackle this issue, we will be able to achieve a great deal, including employment here, of product development — from ‘business to’time — that is to say, it is important to pay attention to all of this. I would like to remind you of the situation in which we, for example, have fallen behind unhappily in one section. I remember in the 1990s in this same Chamber: when we discussed energy solutions then, someone brought out wind power, and there was a mockery here at the time that windmills were doing our energy production. We didn't do it properly. We invested in wind power. Now some other countries have done a great deal about it. In Denmark, 40% of energy production today comes from wind power. It is also one of the world’s leading exporters of wind power technology. This is a trademark for Denmark, it is precisely it that can profile. We were left behind, and now we just have to hope that in this climate change sector, where we are now pioneers also through target setting, we will not be able to lose our way, but will also be able to benefit from Finland's own economic expertise in these matters, and will also provide industry with more benefits and jobs in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u222	Mr President! Under no circumstances do I and the Finns of Finland object to investing in technology. We support the promotion of everything that can lead to the development and export of Finnish production to the world market in this respect. It is needed in China, it is needed in India, Poland and so on, and it is worth investing in. But the measures we use to beat a Finnish motorist or a resident, we are not in favour. It's unreasonable. That's why I'm so steep here. The city of Jyväskylä — the city of which I sit in the council — is the capital of Finland’s wood construction. There are wooden apartment buildings and there is a preference for wood construction. I'm proud of it. I think it is great that as much wood is being built in Finland as possible and how it makes sense. Of course, there are problems in those blocks of flats, such as noise and other things, but nevertheless this is developing and we are not opposed to it. That is quite clear. Of course, the question of nuclear power is a very interesting one, which is the position of the Greens today with regard to nuclear power. Representative Essayah gave an excellent speech on the future prospects of the SSAB steel plant in Raahe. A huge amount of electricity is needed if and, hopefully, when you go in that direction there, it is the largest single CO2 emitter in Finland. But if you are opposed to nuclear power, you are opposed to peat and you are opposed, nearing all possible forms, then nothing will come of it. Even if there are so many contributions to the measures that you are suggesting as a nuisance to the people, it is becoming difficult for Finland. In other words, such moderate, sensible, deliberate action is needed in this climate policy. We do not dispute climate change, but we want a sensible, well thought-out policy, measures and indeed social and territorial justice. And I'm afraid that's what's about to get badly run over by the government today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u223	Mr President! I wanted to say to Mr Malmi that we are not using pieceware in the production of heat and energy today, but that it is precisely the ancillary product: branches, tops, stocks. Somehow it seems strange that this is a new invention, but this is not the case. Wood is not grown for the production of heat or energy; it is the by-product of which it happens. And I do not see that this is in any way hanging on to old technology, but is moving in a sustainable way towards new and cleaner methods.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u226	Mr President! Just a quick one. After all, this climate debate is easily translated into an energy policy debate,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u229	Mr President! In fact, Mr Kiljunen took the words out of my mouth, just as I am from this nuclear power. If we consider this nuclear power plant under construction, which has not yet produced electricity at all, we have the prospect that such agile solutions will be needed. And if you think about this decentralisation of energy production, when you talk about the regional effects of this kind, then in that respect these decentralised solutions are much better, so that then the regions can make use of its types of energy production, which is the most convenient. For example, we now have the latest new information that there are areas in Finland where, for example, the utilisation of geothermal energy is absolutely top-notch in the world. All these things need to be weighed down. To Mr S.H.I.E.L.L.D.'s comment on who's to blame for what, I would remind you that this debate has, however, focused very much on the fact that the opposition has created this threat that the government's over-ambitious climate measures would in some way undermine the conditions of ordinary Finns or companies. In this regard, with the contributions of quite a number of Members, we stressed that it is exactly the opposite. And that is what the arguments in this debate are, as it were, rooted in. But it is very important, and it is good that we now have a government that focuses on these climate issues. In the future, we will see how we will achieve this fair change. The government has a firm intention of doing so in such a way that no one’s life will be ruined but, on the contrary, that hope and the future will be created.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u230	Mr President! There is no need for any nuclear belief, it is sufficient to look at the IPCC recommendations and scenarios that state that global climate change cannot be contained without nuclear power. This is a fact, and I would like all Finnish parties to openly recognise this fact and in any context. In Finland, we have an excellent situation in which citizens have a high level of confidence in nuclear power. Finns accept nuclear power — almost half of Finns. We obviously have the most pro-nuclear parliament in the world when we look at election machine responses. And this is really important if Finland wants to survive this electrification of society with honor. It has been estimated that the public output of the industry alone suggests that electricity consumption will increase from about 87.5 terawatt hours today to approximately 130 terawatt hours by 2045. So what does this mean in practice? This means that the completion of Olkiluoto's third reactor plus Hanhikivi's reactor will not be sufficient to meet this growing need for electricity. This means that Finland is facing a shortage of electricity. And the same challenge actually applies to the Nordic electricity market as a whole. All the Nordic countries are rapidly electrifying, and that electricity is simply not enough if we do not make sensible investments. In other words, nuclear power is also absolutely essential in Finland, not only in that large measure class, but also in this smaller measure class under development. In other words, I think it is very important that, if the government now wants to be a climate government, you go ambitiously to reform this legislation on nuclear energy in such a way that the obstacles that are leaving us will take advantage of the development of small nuclear power. Small nuclear power can be used to increase the use of nuclear power in industry. It is a possible response to this growing electricity demand in industry, but it is also possible to use nuclear power to solve emissions from district heat production. So I will continue to refer to this note from VTT yesterday, which said that VTT is going to develop Finnish nuclear district heat. And this is the kind of technological opening that this government should now pay attention to, making the legislative changes that make small nuclear power more profitable and, if necessary, making R & D investments,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u231	Mr President! Let us not go any deeper into this nuclear debatable as such, but I would just like to make it clear that no one in this House, including the Greens, will be removing nuclear power from the energy palette that Finland has — when speeches were made here, which could be deduced from. Of course, the Greens see that nuclear power is part of this solution. Then there are probably differences as to whether there is talk of further construction or of these small nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u232	President! A brief word on Mr Vestman's speech: He said he wasn't a nuclear believer. I am not going to take a position on whether this conclusion can be drawn from you, but in any case you said that climate change in the global dimension cannot be resolved without nuclear power. That phrase may be true, but it may not be true. It can also be said that climate change in the global dimension cannot be combated without hydropower, without solar power, without wind power, without geothermal power and so on — we can define how we want it. We need these decentralised, different types of energy sources. If that is what you said — I am not quite sure, but it may be true, but if you did — that the Finnish Parliament, or this Parliament, which is here, is the world's most willing nuclear power,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u233	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u234	Mr President! It has been interesting to watch this bill presented to the media, how the social media has had a debate around it. In this bill, when the words ‘immigration’ and ‘integration’ appear to have been completed, they have been cleared. The most enthusiastic people there have seen this as some sort of racist bill, and then others have felt that this is not enough, that more should be cut back on social security and the like. But now, ladies and gentlemen, and you who are perhaps following this through the Internet, I hope that you will actually get to know what this bill is about. This has moved on from the unanimous report of the Parliamentary Audit Committee of 2019, which states that Finland's integration policy does not currently work and that new solutions are needed to remedy the situation. These new solutions highlight the problem of prolonged unemployment among immigrants, in particular due to lack of language skills. The Audit Committee was alarmed by the fact that the target language level of integration training reached just under 35 per cent of those who completed the training, which was between 2013 and 2016. However, the Finnish labour market generally requires Finnish and/or Swedish skills, which is why the system should encourage everyone who comes here to acquire sufficient language skills. According to the committee, the obligation must be increased by requiring the examination to be carried out in the language studies of integration training. Less than two years have passed since then, and we have not yet seen government measures to implement the expression of this Parliament's position. So then, in the KD Group, we have started to consider how we would be able to put forward a bill that would help to acquire these employment conditions, namely language skills, and which would be encouraging. In general, the committee also stated that social security should also be scaled to encourage work, and the committee also considered that the compulsory language learning of integration training should be increased so that, as part of the implementation of the integration plan, the immigrant must demonstrate by experiment that he has achieved the level of the target language skills of integration training over a certain period of time. The committee's report also states that Parliament requires the government to take steps to reorganise the language studies of this integration training in order to ensure the quality of teaching and to improve the learning outcomes to meet the learning objectives and the language requirements of working life. So this is the common will of the whole Parliament, and one might say that in response to it the Christian Democrats have gone out to make this bill. I would also like to draw attention to the reflection of the current Minister for Labour, Tuula Haatainen, from January, when she raised the issue of equality in integration training in particular. In particular, the overall overview of integration produced by the Minister for Labour and referred to by Minister Haatainen drew attention to the fact that many immigrant women often seek in care sectors, for example, and there this requirement for language skills is even more severe than it is, for example, often in male-dominated sectors, such as industries, and that this integration of immigrant women through language training is as good and effective as possible. Their demand for language skills in working life is in most cases even higher than that of men. But then to this initiative itself. So if we look at what has been done in other Nordic countries, it has been said in the other Nordic countries that they absolutely need to change their language training, because if we want social security to remain high in the welfare society, it can only be maintained at a high employment rate. It will then be important for all potential actors to participate in the labour market. Swedish Prime Minister Löfven promised before the parliamentary elections 2018, that Swedish income support would be granted only against language training in the future. This was therefore important in the view of the Social Democrats, because language is the key to the labour market. Sweden does not have labour market support such as Finland, so income support is the main form of support for the long-term unemployed, and it is in the preparation of the Löfven government that won the election. In Denmark, as early as 2015, immigrants were transferred to such integration support, which is about 50% lower than income support. The aid can be increased by approximately EUR 195 per month by passing the Danish test, and studies show that this has reduced the unemployment rate of immigrants arriving in Denmark. In Denmark, a number of measures have been taken to improve incentives for unemployed immigrants to enter the labour market. Finland should definitely remain involved in this development of the welfare society and not isolate itself from the development that is taking place elsewhere in the Nordic countries in order to better integrate immigrants into the labour market. In that sense, there should be this incentive, a financial incentive, to acquire better language skills. However, the Finnish Constitution limits these options in some respects. For example, you cannot halve income support from immigrants, as has been done in the Danish model, and add a language supplement to it, because income support is considered a benefit protected by the Constitution in Finland, and not even its index can be applied — unlike all other forms of support. This was tested last season when the government tried to reduce labour market support for immigrants in 2016, but the Constitutional Committee rejected this initiative. So we Christian Democrats have been thinking about how this reform could be carried forward without it colliding with this Constitution, and the solution is that we believe that this should be shown to everyone, that is to say that everyone should be able to demonstrate their skills in Finnish or Swedish and thus reach a better level of support. In other words, labour market support is initially calculated in the same way for all, regardless of whether a parent Finn or an immigrant, and in this way this initiative does not discriminate against any group of people. Labour market support will then receive this language allowance, which will allow labour market support to be raised to the level of basic daily allowance by showing its language skills. Proof of language proficiency can take place, for example, by means of a comprehensive school emission certificate or by taking part in this general language examination, which, for example, must be completed by those applying for Finnish citizenship. Such various increases in unemployment benefit are no exception — it has been asked how to have such a language supplement, is it not against equality? At the moment, we have six different criteria for raising the current basic allowance. There is an increase in participation in labour market training. You can get an increase in your studies on your own. If you are in rehabilitative work activities, you can receive an increase, as well as participation in the work and training programme, self-study of an immigrant and participation in job search training. So even today, there are six different possibilities to increase that level of basic daily allowance. The same is true of labour market support. Participation in rehabilitative work will raise the basic level of labour market support, not to mention the fact that today, in a wide range of collective agreements, there would be a desire for various supplements, including language supplements. In other words, such different additions are in no way exceptional — not to mention that they are in some way discriminatory against a person or a group of people. Indeed, we see it as important that people improve their labour market capacity. It is already important to him that he should be better able to enter the labour market, but we believe that the fact that these capacities still have the opportunity to raise the level of their own social security is precisely the incentive that Finnish social security needs. The Christian Democrats also want this solution to be readily available to the Red Mul Government, as is the case with our supportive model of basic security. And we are very pleased that the government is now putting that task force on the road, and I am glad that I can represent my own party in it. We hope that we can really work together in Finland to improve the working life capacity of all people and enable everyone to get to work and thereby also to build their own future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u235	Mr President! The Essayah bill therefore proposes that full labour market support can be obtained in the future by proving its Finnish or Swedish skills. According to the explanatory memorandum of the bill, language skills could be proven, for example, by a comprehensive school certificate or a general language certificate, without which labour market support would be 90% of the full amount. Mr President! This Essayah bill brings a good and necessary addition to our immigration policy debate. The aim of the bill is, among other things, to encourage immigrants to acquire language skills that would promote their employment in Finland, and this initiative has been an example of other Nordic legislation insofar as this is possible within the framework of our current constitution. Mr President! The employment rate of some groups of immigrants in Finland is alarmingly low, at around 20%. If immigrants are forced to rely on social benefits and income transfers instead of paying taxes, they will not help to improve our dependency relationship; rather, they will do the opposite. As stated in the explanatory memorandum to the Act, Kela paid unemployment benefit of EUR 411 million to foreign citizens living in Finland, income support of EUR 118 million and housing allowance of EUR 161 million in 2018. The total amount of EUR 690 million is also only part of the total cost of immigration. No one seems to know the final amount, but probably more than EUR 1 billion is being talked about anyway, probably more than one billion. Learning Finnish or Swedish for immigrants is a very important part of their integration and would significantly improve the conditions for their employment. Mr President! As far as the debate on work-related immigration is concerned, I consider it a priority to promote the employment of Finnish unemployed as well as to train them in such a way as to improve access to the labour market and, in the event of further labour shortages, it would be necessary to introduce an immigration scoring system such as Australia or Canada. After all, immigrants are scored on the basis of skills, education, language skills and work history, among other things. The higher-skilled the foreign labour force arriving in Finland, the less likely they will be to have to rely on social benefits in the future, and this would of course significantly improve the cost-benefit ratio of immigration, which would be absolutely necessary for our country's economic sustainability.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u236	Mr President! It is good that these various means are examined and examined, and I also thank you for this bill. It is interesting, then, to see how this is viewed above all in terms of equality, but these arguments have tried to highlight whether people are put in a different position here because of their background or other factors. However, broadly speaking, the purpose of the legislative initiative is good. I am particularly concerned about the language skills of immigrant women. These things have already been raised in this house: for example, if a man with an immigrant background is working there, he may learn Finnish better than a wife who is at home. So how do we ensure that women also learn the Finnish language and then come to work even more easily? On the other hand, there are certainly also problematic points in this bill. Perhaps someone malicious might say that in this initiative integration is referred to as a cut in job support. You may wonder whether it is an incentive enough then to go for the language skills in relation to what this surgery would mean if it were to take place. In part, as I said, it is good to look at the bill. Perhaps, Mr President, I would like to point out that in some cases – I would like to say so – too much Finnish or Swedish is required in Finland. We have a lot of employees in this country who speak English, especially in the service sector, and it is good that English-speaking service professionals and other professionals come here as well. Sometimes I wonder if we are too much attached to that language so that we just stare at the fact that we should attract people here, workers who know different languages and serve them through it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u237	Mr President! This bill by the Group of the Christian Democrats in Parliament does make me feel rather contradictory. I think that it may not be in accordance with Christian values, that even now a small basic allowance, an automatic cut of 10% of unemployment benefit for everyone, and then for those who are able to prove their language skills, whether in Finnish or Swedish, that would be 100%. But what about the sign language, the Sámi language, or the unemployed who have lost their ability to speak because of illness or disability — have they been taken into account in this bill? On the other hand, I also wonder what the challenges of the future in working life are and what skills are needed. We need creativity, critical thinking, cooperation and interaction skills, empathy, emotional and situational skills in order to be able to talk about future jobs. Perhaps there should be more proof of this, that we have empathy and such emotional intelligence. I don't think we have that kind of proof yet, but it wouldn't hurt. I think it's a little like this populist opening. I agree with that representative. With Essayah that we need more resources for integration, we need that language skills. That is the key to employment, integration into society, that is what we must take care of. As Mr Ovaska made an excellent point on this issue of equality, what about the many immigrant women who have come here through marriage, for example, who may not have had any knowledge of Finnish? What position would this bill put them, their chances of employment or even having the least labour market support, which is certainly not very large — it gives the impression that the unemployed would receive a high level of compensation for being unemployed. Yes, we must invest in those forms of employment: education, the availability of language courses and the low threshold for participation. Unfortunately, I cannot support this bill in any way. I cannot see that this would bring any added value. Instead, I would like you to understand what the doctor says to you, regardless of your native language. It requires either interpreting assistance or it must have access to that service in its own language. But I'm not personally involved in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u238	Mr President! Mr Hänninen's previous speech well described the problems of equality that this bill entails. According to the Constitution, people must be equal before the law, and the Constitution expressly prohibits any discrimination on grounds of language, for example. On the other hand, it is also true that the lack of language skills is a major obstacle to the employment of immigrants, but there are far more effective ways of promoting language skills than such sanctions and cutting labour market support. It would really be unfair to impose such language sanctions on those affected by unemployment. It would be just like squatting on an infamous active model. Instead, we should think about the reason why immigrants are so weak in their language skills and consider ways to tackle it. At the moment the situation is that the resources of language training for immigrants vary across Finland and it is sometimes very difficult to get into education. In that case, such sanctions would be a very bad solution. In addition, a lot of quality problems have been identified in these trainings. There have been problems with the diverse content of these trainings and, for example, with the skills of teachers. In Finland, there is a shortage of qualified S2teachers as second language speakers. One problem has been the use of procurement criteria in different regions which have overemphasized prices at the expense of quality and have led to problems. It would be much more sensible to address these causes than to impose sanctions on jobseekers. It is really important to put this issue of education in order, because it is actually able to remove barriers to employment and not simply to squat people, but these anti-constitutional measures proposed in the initiative are certainly not the right way to go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u239	President! I would like to respond to some of the contributions made by my fellow Members: First of all, about what is behind this legislative initiative: Yes, I am calling on the new representatives here in particular to take a look at the report of the Audit Committee last year, 2019. There the Audit Committee unanimously, including the Greens and the Left Alliance members in the Committee, stated that we must measure social security to encourage work, and it also states that the compulsory language learning of integration training should be increased so that, as part of the integration plan and its compliance, the immigrant must demonstrate that he has achieved the level of the target language skills of integration training over a certain period of time. After all, it is alarming if only 35% achieve the level of this language test that they pass the language test. In the sense that Parliament required changes and no changes have been made, it seems strange to me that there is opposition here to the changes that are specifically aimed at putting the will of the Parliament into practice. I would point out to Mr Ovaska that it is precisely the beneficiaries of labour market support, i.e. those who receive labour market support who are very long-term unemployed — more than 400 days unemployed, in which case at that point they will be faced with a gap in their livelihood — and then those who do not have any work history at all. In other words, it is precisely a group where everything should be done to improve their working life capacity. In that sense, if you think of these various additions, which I listed here, what is involved at the moment, for example, in basic daily allowance, I do not quite understand how it would be contrary to equality to require that language training can be supplemented, if it can be obtained today, for example, from self-study, you can also receive an increase. So, as for all of these, where does the unemployed person participate — six different things — today may be added, in what way would this participation in language training and passing the language test be somewhat different? Then we must remind you that today we have jobs in the Finnish labour market that you cannot get into if you do not speak Finnish and/or Swedish well enough. Is that discrimination? Well, if you think of a doctor’s profession or a nurse, you cannot register in a register kept by health authorities in Finland if you do not have sufficient language skills. In other words, we in Finland in the labour market require the language skills that can be used,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u240	Mr President! It is interesting not only to read this bill but also to listen to the arguments of Mrs Essayah. As special as it is, I can agree with everything you say — except your conclusions. So it is quite true that we need more people of working age in Finland. It is quite true that immigrants can be of great help to us in this regard. It is true that integration has failed in many ways and should be improved. It is true that the prolonged unemployment of immigrants is often caused by inadequate language skills. It is true that social protection can be developed to become more active, and language skills should be improved and everything possible must be done to improve the employment capacity of the immigrant population, immigrants. All of this is absolutely true, and I am sure that the committees have also taken a position on this. But why are you giving me punishment, a stick? Why do you not take the means that could only be used well, which would be a carrot, really encouraging? Why are we imposing on a vulnerable group of people — just as Mrs Holopainen said here, this is now an active model in its mini-form — the penalty for the absence of such aid? If you want to make an incentive system, make language training more effective. It is in a very bad state for us in these integration programmes. I am dealing with so many immigrants all the time, and they say that it is a short-term education, a small part at the time, another part at the time, it is not systematic that language training is carried through. Enhance those capacities, improve opportunities for systematic language learning, and let us instead put a bonus on it, i.e. if we can effectively improve language capacity, bonuses, carrots will encourage instead of such a punitive policy. I do not understand why you take a way to the opposite angle when your argument is, by the way, sharp and reasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u241	Mr President! I agree with what Mr Kiljunen said earlier: the carrot will be introduced. The starting point here is that the benefit for all those with labour market support would be reduced by 10% to 90% — that is, every single Finn who now knows Finnish or Swedish. He will receive it 100 per cent when he brings proof that he knows Finnish or Swedish. In other words, it is placed in an unequal position based on what language skills are. As far as young people are concerned, I know that young immigrants often use an international language with the native Finnish population or with people from other countries, which today is English. I do not know whether it is such a bad thing — but if communication goes well — whatever language it is. But I am annoyed: in a way, the argument here is right, so I too am concerned if language, lack of language skills is the threshold for access to the labour market or social integration — yes, that is a problem. And that is something that we must take up, and that is something that I am sure we can agree on in this Chamber. Let's put those resources in there so no one falls. Let's put the resources in there so we can improve our language skills. But the fact that we would start off with the fact that people in a vulnerable position are already being cut back on a small amount of labour market support — this is something I cannot warm up to.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u242	Mr President! I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. Essayah on this excellent legislative initiative, which therefore provides for full labour market support to prove its competence in the domestic language. Without this, labour market support would amount to 90% of full aid. Above all, Finland needs immigration that serves the national economy and whose impact on public finances is positive. This is what many successful societies think. I too would like to highlight this model of economic immigration in Canada, where work-related immigrants are scored according to language skills, education, age and adaptability, among other things. In particular, Canada is targeting young educated immigrants, who, according to this model, are expected to benefit the Canadian economy. Not all immigration is beneficial to the economy. According to the calculations in the labour policy journal, immigration has beneficial effects on the economic dependency ratio if the employment rate of immigrants exceeds 60%. This is clearly stated in the explanatory memorandum to that bill. The VATTI study has found that if immigrants and their children are employed as well as immigrants on average, the loss to public finances would then be around EUR 150000 to EUR 200,000. In 2017, VATTI's survey looked at the success of immigrants living in Finland in the Finnish labour market. According to it, the employment rate of migrants from Iraq, Afghanistan and Somalia was only 20-26% in 2013, compared with 52-58% for other migrants. The cost of immigration is therefore due to the fact that integration and integration are not working at the moment, as has been pointed out in this debate. Instead, it appears that the employment rate for work-related immigration is high compared to the employment rate for humanitarian immigration, even higher than that of the people living in Finland. As stated in the explanatory memorandum to the Act, more than 20 per cent of Finland's unemployment benefit went to citizens of other countries residing in Finland in 2018. I think that language skills really come to the fore in that integration: not only does language carry cultural values, values in our society, it is also a gateway to the labour market. I believe that the model set out in the initiative represents the Nordic line. In Denmark, these incentives to learn the language have been in existence and developed for a long time, and it would be a real shame if such solutions fell into constitutional problems in Finland. In addition to creating such incentives for social and unemployment security, I would like to point out that I believe that permanent residence in Finland should be conditional on:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u243	Mr President! As in all these speeches, concerns about the language skills and employment of immigrants have been shared unanimously, I share that. But such a single observation to the argument that a third of those who attend language courses cannot reach this level of ambition and as if this kind of sanction would then serve as a way of solving this problem: if it has been found that these language courses have very significant quality problems, incompetent teachers and inappropriate content, and there have been inappropriate procurement criteria, then should not this logic — if this is the way to apply sanctions — be applied to those persons who have made this procurement decision by these criteria?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u244	Mr President! Indeed, if we consider how this language supplement can be applied within the framework of the Finnish Constitution, the only possibility is that labour market support, which is a form of support higher than the basic element of income support, will enable us to achieve this. If we were to do it in such a way that we would add this equivalent amount to the current tax-free labour market subsidy, then that would mean that we would discriminate against the recipient of the labour market subsidy in Finland. In other words, it has been considered how this can be done in such a way that it can be passed through the Finnish Constitution. It must now be borne in mind that in other Nordic countries, the governments led by the Social Democrats have specifically set out to build different language supplements and even, as in Denmark, cut 50% of the so-called basic income. We in the Constitutional Committee stated last season that we cannot touch our income support, even its index cannot be cut, because it is considered to be a basic income protected by the Constitution in Finland. That is why the Finnish Constitution sets out certain framework conditions for how such a thing can be implemented. But in other Nordic countries this has started to happen, and the reason is that an English study has found that this language allowance, the fact that a person performs this language requirement, improves his employment opportunities by 17%. In Sweden, a similar study: 15% improves his employment prospects. In other words, this has a clear impact on the labour market. The mere fact that you have completed that language test clearly has an effect that improves the employment of this person. In that sense, this should be looked at in an industrious manner and actually think about it — many people have used the word ‘lower position ’ here — in what way we can help with the weaker position of improving her capacity toparticipate in the labour market. It can be done by making this language training a part of the incentive. As has been said here, there are certainly shortcomings in that language training in Finland, but I am quite sure that there will then be a completely different kind of attention to its quality. Today it's a little like that, and this is because it doesn't have any effect on how you're being taught whether you're getting through that exam or not. I am sure that it will also pass the immigrant who would like to have a better language skills and would also like to be able to show that he has better language skills. That is why the Christian Democrats have set out to present this model. In this way, we hope that Finland will be able to make the language supplement such an incentive, because it will help that person to enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u245	Mr President! Mr Essayah is absolutely right that the lack of language skills is perhaps the single biggest obstacle to entry into the labour market for an immigrant. That is certainly the case when you look at all sectors together. Instead, Mr Vestman said that he supported you in saying that we would have to leave the way of thinking that full labour market support should be conditional on a full knowledge of Finnish language management.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u246	Mr President! I just wanted to ask Mr Vestman: I do not understand how this scoring system now relates to this actual bill, because if you think of Canada or other countries, for example, they will of course attract and want to attract skilled and multilingual workers, and Finns too will certainly have been tempted, but first the country must be attractive when such a system is created. However, we do have the situation in Finland that we are not a very attractive country for working, educated foreigners, so I do not see how this scoring system in itself is connected to this actual issue through it. Perhaps here, too, with reference to the previous speaker, Mr Scream, and to this approach, I still wonder in this initiative that it is a problem in itself that we have to approach employment policy and how to employ more people in Finland, by means of initiatives aimed at factors related to subsidies — subsidies that are paid by the state or by someone else. Then there is something wrong with our employment policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u247	Mr President! That's what I'm talking about. Ovaska finally said: "This is where it was recently, in November, the Labour Policy Journal published a study stating that, in fact, if we think that immigration is the solution to our dependency relationship in Finland, it means that immigrants must have an employment rate of at least 60 per cent. In that sense, if we want that dependency ratio to improve, the number should be higher than this. This calculation has been extremely neglected in public and it may not have been understood that this is really decisive and it should challenge all of us political decision-makers to reflect on how we can improve the employment rate of unemployed immigrants. We need to be able to lift it up fast. This calculation shows that immigration is of no benefit to the dependency ratio if it does not employ more than 60%. It could therefore be said that all the stones and stumps must be turned in order to be able to think about how this can be done. Here Mr Kiljunen said that this is humiliating and squirming, but our constitution has been built in such a way that, when you think about what might be the way not to discriminate against a group of people, this is the only way that we can first put it to everyone minus 10% and then have the opportunity to raise the language supplement, which will then be able to get back to that level. So this is the way to build an incentive for it. If it is turned on, then it is discriminatory, it is discriminatory against the native Finn. In that sense, our constitution has been built on a different logic than what it is in our neighbouring countries. In our neighbouring countries, quite a bit, half the income support is cut off. There would be no question that this could be done. You can't even touch the index of income support. In Denmark, it is considered that the requirement for language skills and its fulfilment is so important that people can categorically be placed on completely different levels of basic security because they want to improve their access to the labour market. In that sense, I could say that I think that this is a very encouraging way of saying it and a way in which no one's livelihood is at risk in this way, because this is, however, higher than the level of income support that we have defined as basic security. So this still stays above it. That is why this is built just as it was built. I personally wish that we in Finland would indeed have the courage to consider how we are going to reform our social security system so that it is encouraging, so that it is concerned about people's livelihoods and, above all, so that it is:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u248	Mr President! I find it hard to believe that the Constitution would prevent us from having rewarding systems in society for people who achieve something. Yes, we must have and have opportunities to create positive rewarding things, not just negative humiliating things. So in this respect, I think it would be worth using more imagination now. If it is not possible to put an incentive of 10% directly into this labour market support, because it is understandable that the debate will arise about the negative reaction of the Kansana Finns, then you would find another way — Mr Ovaska has already brought this up — and think of something quite different than an economic incentive or money. There are other ways in which people can be encouraged, including more systematic improvements in language training. That there must be more ways than once again to bring this active model back to our debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u249	Mr President! I personally think that this bill is part of the broader issue of how binding social security and unemployment security should be. So I think that, at the same time, we cannot have generous unemployment security and social security and, on the other hand, rather non-existent obligations. Unresponsible social security with its incentive traps will pass immigrants as well, so the issue is a bigger problem, which I hope will be tackled at the very first stage by that social security reform. I am concerned when Mr Ovaska mentioned that such obligations should not be increased when they are needed in Finland on a wider scale. I would like to point out that there was news from the Helsinki Sanomat some time ago about an interview with trained Iraqi asylum seekers. And according to this case of Helsingin Sanomat, these asylum seekers found it repugnant at first to receive social assistance. As time went by and work was not found, attitudes towards subsidies were relaxed. According to this researcher, ‘there is arisk that it will cause longer-term dependency on socialsupport’. In other words, I think that such a compulsory social assistance system is in the interests of everyone, including those who are trying to make a contribution to the labour market there. It is quite clear that services must work in return, and in this case language training must work. But there must be more obligation on the other side. The current system has proved ineffective.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u250	Mr President! To Mr Ovaska, I would say that the Audit Committee has expressly required that changes be made to this very aid, that is to say, when you consider whether it could be something else, it is precisely in line with this report by the Audit Committee that Parliament's will will will has been put into effect here, given that it is explicitly intended to be encouraged to do so. Perhaps, then, on this language training, that now, of course, the government parties have an excellent opportunity, in my opinion, to invest in this quality of language training as part of our labour market policy measures and integration training. In that sense, I hope that, on that side, this very quality side will be taken forward. Perhaps, on the whole, it could be said that in this debate, for which I would like to thank my fellow Members — you have been actively involved — I think it has been good to note, as Mr Kiljunen has listed here, how many things and arguments we fully agree on. We do not believe that this state of affairs as it is, I believe, in your opinion, can continue, but that something needs to be done. In that sense, I hope that the government will now begin to reflect equally on what might be the means. The Christian Democrats have put forward this method of encouraging basic security as a basis for social security reform overall, and one part of it is this language supplement, which also includes this element of incentive. In that sense, as in the previous climate debate, when I called for it to be possible to see a broad, major strategy, we should really be able to see the broad strategy in this reform of social security, which involves unemployment security very closely: what type of social security and, on the other hand, what type of social services we in the future want to build Finnish society and what are the basic elements, if you could say so. For example, we have so far had a universality as one such factor, and individual social security and the like have been considered. Bearing in mind that the working life of the future will certainly continue to change and impose more and more different demands, we should now be able to look at all of these from a very clean table and think about how we can build a social security and unemployment security that actually encourages people to move forward and takes care of them, but certainly does not pass, does not leave them trapped in incentives and certainly does not, as today, give rise to dependency.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u251	Mr President! In order to ensure that there are no special entries in the Minutes, I would like to say that I have never said that there should be no more obligations, because the rights and obligations usually go hand in hand. This may need to be highlighted further. But I would like to thank the opposition for coming up with these initiatives, particularly in the direction of the Christian Democrats. That's very nice. And I am sure that the government will weigh them very carefully in its own working groups and elsewhere, and then the government will also hold a debate and evaluate and, above all, make sure that the proposals that the government makes are not unconstitutional or discriminatory.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u253	Mr President! There has certainly been a good referral debate on all aspects of that future social security reform. These obligations and rights are still in place and there is no doubt that they will continue to exist in the future. When one is concerned about this language training and its quality and what it will be about in the future, we also have the language training mentioned in the Government Programme, investing in the linguistic capacity of immigrant parents who are not in employment. And from this debate — at least what I have listened to here — I could very well assume that the message will go as far as it can and that these discussions will also be taken into account in future preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u254	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session of 21 February 1920.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u255	Mr President! We are now at the heart of a very important and well-known topic. First of all, warm thanks to Mr Jokis for an extremely necessary and good bill. It shows a professional’s experience and a long-standing view of road safety, its state and the future. In 2010, Finland set an ambitious target for halving road deaths by 2020. That figure should be 136 or less deaths at the end of this year. In 2019 there were 201 traffic fatalities. It seems strongly that the objective is not being achieved. This last target year, 2020, has not been a great start, because in January of this year, four more deaths occurred in traffic than one year ago in January, and today, among other things, there was a traffic accident that led to the death of Finland in traffic. The overall picture shows a good trend: In 2018, the number of deaths was 239, or 38 more than 2019. In 2017, there were almost the same victims, 238. When I myself began as a police officer about 20 years ago, there were about 400 deaths in traffic at a very steady pace. Traffic deaths can therefore be considered to have halved in 20 years, rather than 10 years. In 2003, it was widely reported that the number of road deaths has collapsed. That's when there were 379 victims. The change from the previous year was then 36 persons less, i.e. very much the same as that from the previous year. We could imagine that now there has also been a significant change for the better, even the collapse of the number of road deaths. Mr President! How safe is Finland? The European Road Safety Report shows that in comparison with 32 countries Finland remains in a transport performance comparison 8. the 12th place in the comparison between the place and the population. For example, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Great Britain and Germany are far ahead of us. After all, Norway is the absolute number one in road safety. How well has Finland improved road safety compared with others? Although these recent figures sound good, the comparison shows that from 2010 onwards we will remain in the rear end of road safety, 23rd. This result is merciless, though. We can draw a few conclusions from these readings: Finland's roads are killed by fewer people, but it is not necessarily because of people and attitudes, but rather because cars have become safer. Two of the three main drivers in the area of road safety have not developed, and they are the roads and people's attitudes. The most important of all factors affecting road safety is people's attitudes and, as the European Road Safety Report shows, we are seriously lagging behind in this compared with other EU countries. That is why this bill I signed on the road safety charge is very appropriate, necessary and worthy of support. Mr President! Good and effective road safety work saves lives. We must continue and, in particular, develop road safety work, because the European Union, as well as Finland, has set the goal that no more people will die in traffic by 2050. Unfortunately, at the moment, however, we are a European developing country in the field of road safety. How happy can we really be with this situation? — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u256	Mr President! Indeed, the present government and the government parties take the improvement of road safety very seriously, and this has already been given particular attention in the Government Programme. Among other things, the Government Programme states: ‘The improvement of transport safety isreincorporated in the development of the transport and transport system. The objective is to respond to the EU’s zero scenario, i.e. zero road deaths by 2050. A road safety decision will be prepared to guide the achievement and pursuit of this objective.’ Overall, road safety and the work to be done on it are a very important issue. It must be respected, and it must also be invested in. With regard to this bill itself, it should be remembered that when the law on the road safety charge was adopted and decided on then 2016, the coalition was in the government itself and in making this decision as well. It should also be remembered that the 2019 budget and the 2020 budget have also increased the allocation for the financing of road safety work beyond that collected by the road safety charge from motor insurance companies. All in all, this work on road safety is very important, including: Transport security is doing a very good job, always has, and I hope that the budget for transport security for that work will be sufficient. I personally hope that it can be further developed, but I think that this law, which now exists, is sufficient, and that is what is going on. The government has addressed this issue and, as I said before, an additional budget has also been taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-25-ps-12.u257	Mr President! The representatives of Torniainen and S.H.I.E.L.D. speeches are valuable and important. As they have pointed out, it is very important that road safety work is taken seriously. Every fatality in traffic, every disabled person in traffic is too much, and if you can reach a zero level in any time frame, it is an ideal situation. In other words, we need to invest in road safety, we need to find the right resources and, as Mrs Torniainen has said here, the government will take this seriously, and in that respect it will probably also enjoy the support of the opposition in this regard.
