ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 13/2020 vp. The debate will be opened by Mr Koskinen, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u2	Mr President! The Committee on Finance dealt with this fourth draft amending budget and its supplement swiftly and in a spirit of good cooperation. It should be noted that there are three objections from the opposition parties to this, but there are no differences of opinion with regard to these appropriations themselves. These will then be presented separately on the basis of objections. The fourth draft amending budget for 2020 will launch a large package of measures of around EUR 5.5 billion to support the economic recovery at the end of the acute phase of the coronavirus crisis. The recovery package will increase the budget by around EUR 3.6 billion in the current year, while, with the mandates, part of the additional expenditure will be spent on the coming years. Tax changes will also be introduced in the context of recovery measures, which will reduce government revenue by nearly EUR 1.3 billion in 2020. This recovery package aims to increase demand, improve Finland’s longer-term growth prospects, combat climate change and promote biodiversity, and strengthen the country’s resources, resilience to crisis, self-sufficiency and knowledge base. The budget will therefore be increased, inter alia, for education, innovation, transport and rural development, renovation and energy efficiency. It also includes measures to support municipalities in order to ensure the provision of basic services and to alleviate the economic problems arising from the exceptional situation. The Government's proposal will also continue to include follow-up measures for acute crisis management aimed at preserving jobs and preventing longer-term disadvantages. These measures include the introduction of a new cost subsidy in the business sector of EUR 300 million, which has been widely discussed here in the context of this bill, the increase in Business Finland's assistance mandate for the processing of remaining applications by EUR 180 million, and the capitalisation of Suomen Teollisuusinvest Oy in EUR 250 million. The measures now being proposed are very complementary to the package of business subsidies that has already been decided upon. The Committee on Finance considers that the additional budget proposal is appropriate as a whole and that the recovery package contained therein is heading in the right direction. Economic recovery should begin immediately at the end of the acute phase so that the economic downturn is as short as possible and the pit is low. The Government’s policy is therefore in line with the strategic guidelines of the economic policy of the Government’s reports on the situation. The committee also refers to its report on the budgetary plan, in which it has dealt more extensively with exit from the crisis and fiscal consolidation. The committee notes that the corona virus epidemic is causing a significant deterioration in Finland's economy and that public finances are indebtedness very rapidly. According to the recent economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance, the economy is shrinking by six per cent this year, and if we look back on the fork that originally ranged from 6 to 16 even these estimates, we have managed to keep it smaller than feared. Although there is still an exceptionally high degree of uncertainty about the forecasts, it is also necessary to decide on fiscal consolidation measures in the longer term to restore Finland to the path of growth, high employment and sustainable public finances after the crisis. It is therefore important that the government prepares a road map as soon as possible, identifying the potential of the various measures to strengthen the economy in order to safeguard the welfare society. It is particularly important to decide quickly on structural reforms and measures to support employment. At the same time, however, we must ensure that economic flexibility is not overly restricted and that recovery is not hampered by early adjustment measures. The need for a net borrowing of central government will increase by around EUR 5.3 billion as a result of this additional budget, and the total net borrowing this year is estimated to be around EUR 18.9 billion, and the amount of central government debt at the end of the year will be around EUR 125 billion, or approximately 55 per cent of GDP. The Committee notes that, despite the rapid increase in government debt, exceptionally low interest rates and professional fundraising have curbed the increase in government interest expenses. In fact, it is estimated that interest expenses for this year would be EUR 927 million, and when we remember that, after the recession of the 1990s, the worst year of 98 was EUR 5.6 billion, i.e. six times that of this situation, this shows how this international economic stability or the associated financial market arrangements will make it easier for Finland to deal with this crisis debt. The municipal rescue package has been particularly welcome. The Committee welcomes the fact that the government proposes a comprehensive package of measures of EUR 1.5 billion to support local government finances. It includes a fixed-term increase of the central government share of basic municipal services by EUR 550 million, an increase of the discretionary central government share by EUR 50 million, a temporary increase of the municipal corporation tax share by the transfer of the central government share by approximately EUR 410 million, and a direct state subsidy of EUR 200 million for medical districts. In addition, some EUR 300 million will be allocated to other measures in support of municipalities, public transport subsidies and grants for early childhood education and general education, etc. This direct part of the aid package is allocated to the central government shares of basic municipal services in such a way that one third goes according to the population and two thirds is allocated on the basis of a deterioration in the municipal tax revenue, and this has sought the fairest possible distribution of municipalities to deal with their financial problems. The increase also includes an increase of approximately EUR 112 million, which will be distributed to municipalities according to the number of inhabitants under the age of 18. The Committee considers it important that funding should be genuinely targeted at supporting children, young people and families, as the corona epidemic and the associated restrictions are expected to increase the need for assistance and demand for services. In particular, the Committee stresses the need to increase and increase the efficiency of low-threshold services and the support offered at an early stage. In supporting municipalities, it is important to distinguish between the immediate effects of the corona crisis and the long-term structural problems in the local government economy, such as the strong segregation of municipalities, the long-standing imbalance in local government revenue and expenditure, and the high investment pressures resulting from the deterioration of the building stock and infrastructure. The Committee would point out that long-term challenges require, among other things, measures to strengthen employment, structural reforms and local government productivity. The EUR 200 million grant for the immediate relief of the interest-rate crisis to medical districts is important and will also facilitate the return to normal conditions for the whole of health care. The committee stresses the need to re-evaluate the adequacy of this budget in the preparation of the additional budget for autumn, as the economic impact of the epidemic has become more precise. As far as education is concerned, additional investment in education and research in research, development and innovation activities is particularly welcome and then, in particular, the creation of higher education places. This is a one-off increase of a total of EUR 124 million in order to increase the number of starting places by 4,800. It is distributed to universities of applied sciences and universities. The Committee considers it important that the adequacy and allocation of start-up places should continue to be assessed and that training and skills should be as appropriate as possible in response to the need for skills after the crisis. It is particularly important to strengthen the basic funding of higher education institutions, which provides a basis for long-term and high-quality research and, consequently, for international success. The Committee welcomes the significant investment made on the transport and communication side, both in terms of recovery and the achievement of climate objectives and in terms of investment in industry. It is also to be welcomed that new transport investments and basic infrastructure management activities are fairly spread regionally, thus contributing to employment, vitality and competitiveness in the various regions. There is still a major correction debt to be considered and further efforts will be needed in the future. The committee has therefore accepted this government proposal with amendments which are more specific to the report, and the final proposal is to propose that Parliament approve the proposal for the fourth amending budget for 2020 contained in the government proposal and in the supplementary government proposal, with these changes and to reject the amending budget initiatives and to decide that the fourth amending budget for 20 will apply from 1 July.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u3	Ladies and gentlemen! This debate will take place in such a way that we have an hour and a half debatable part here, divided into two 45 minutes so that the groups can exchange debators halfway through the debators, and then a general debate will take place after the debatation, where the pre-deposited speeches may take up to five minutes. The length of the other speeches does not exceed three minutes, but I propose that one five-minute speech be taken from the list, Mr Heinonen. And now, by the way, we can start the debatable machine. — Representative Heinonen, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u4	Mr President! I was already prepared for the debate, but this is a difficult, exceptional situation. [Laughter] We have a record-high amending budget on the table, and, of course, expenditure items are good in themselves, as usual, but the fact that they are part of the interest-rate recovery is perhaps a little different. This year, by the middle of the year, the debt will be taken back to 20,000 million, or 20 billion, and the year will therefore only be half-way. Nearly one third of the expenditure for the whole year is therefore financed by debt. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have received a good legacy from the previous governments, and this has made it possible to revive them in the event of a corona crisis. But the concern of us, the coalition, is that you have not been able to take any measures that will permanently improve the employment rate, and that is the biggest concern of this amending budget. These expenditure items, as I said, are largely justified, as always, why not, and this government, like its predecessors and successors, can easily, without a budgetary limit, clearly indicate double, even triple, the number of justified expenditure items such as education, research, social security, social and health services and infrastructure development. Our criticism of this record debt supplement budget is mainly elsewhere. At the same time, the government has not been able to decide on the first concrete action to increase the employment rate, strengthen sustainable growth, close the sustainability gap and stabilise or end further debt in the 2030s. Mr President! As a result, the coalition today has to express its mistrust of the Sanna Marin left-wing government. The motion of censure that I am going to put forward is as follows: ‘The government has not decided,in the context of an amending budget leading to a record debt, on the first of Therefore, Parliament states that the Government does not enjoy Parliament’s trust as a result.” We have long been waiting for these employment measures, even before the start of the corona crisis. Mr Kulmuni, who has already resigned, said many times that these employment measures will come. This is what he said a year ago in the summer, the next time a year ago in the autumn, again at the end of the year, again in the spring, and now, under Midsummer, this government again stated that these employment measures will be decided at some point in the future. One might say that while waiting for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u5	Mr President! It is to be welcomed that this amending budget once again supports employment and job retention, supports the well-being of children and young people and the well-being of older people, provides crisis assistance to municipalities. This is a very important activity in this time period. And, Mr President, it seems to me that this is important: there is a great deal of consensus in this Chamber that these are the measures that are needed now. I understand in itself, Mr President, that there may be a bit of shaving from the assembly, as may be required of the opposition, but what remains unclear to me when I listened to this previous speech is what is the real alternative to the opposition and, in particular, to the coalition.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u8	Let me remind you that we are now in response to the debate, and 1 minute touches everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u9	Mr President! My age and older remember the Romanian Communist dictator Nicolae Ceauşescu, who was obsessed with paying off the state debt up to the last penny and at the expense of everything else. Of course, this is not the way to deal with debt. It is true for debt when unexpected or sudden expenses occur. What is essential, however, is that viping does not become a permanent way of financing permanent expenditure. It is essential that, when own resources are not sufficient for expenditure, secondary expenditure should be postponed and reduced. It is essential that there is a debt management plan. In the case of the State, the debt management plan means that there is a road map to a situation where revenue exceeds expenditure. All of this is missing from the government. It was missing before the corona and especially after that. There is no ability to prioritise expenditure, there is no plan or means to increase productive work. And now the left side of the hall has already figured out that you don't even have to pay off your debts and pay off your debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u10	Madam President! The main criticism of the Coalition Party is, therefore, that the Government's proposal does not include any measures that would permanently increase employment in Finland, the structural reforms. And what has the Coalition Party done? We have already presented last year and we have also put forward countless measures in the context of this supplementary budget debate to improve employment. Economists estimated last autumn that our package will bring 60,000 new jobs. We have won it, now we have the courage to talk about over 100,000 jobs. And why is this so important? This is because our competitiveness is deteriorating. From 2008 to 2009, Finland's competitiveness fell significantly in relation to our competitors, which resulted in a ten-year recession. Now the Bank of Finland estimates that we are going to be doing the same thing. Are we really so irresponsible, and is the government so irresponsible that we do not see this, you do not recognise this, but you intend to decide on the target next autumn? Not us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u13	This additional budget of EUR 5 billion represents a model shift from crisis management to recovery. In addition, the welfare of children and young people, whole families, is also taken into account in a model way. Examples of regeneration are cost support for enterprises, support for municipalities, education, research and product development, housing production, agricultural development, energy production. Recovery will probably have to be continued, albeit more focused than it has been until now, and it is clear that more company-specific contributions may have to be made when companies that need support may be larger in the future. At some point the economy will start to recover on its own and growth will become stronger. The key is to find ways to increase productivity and employment, and this government has the capacity to find ways to increase labour productivity and the number of jobs;
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u16	Madam President! This amending budget is precisely about investing in the work of the future and increasing productivity. There is now a record increase in starting places for those sectors that have the jobs of the future. [Right :James! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u18	Mr President! Representative Orpo here claimed that economists have calculated the impact of 60,000 jobs on their employment performances. That's not true. Everyone can visit the National Coalition Party's website to check that half of this is just air that has not been able to count any effects,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u26	Irade the Talman! Now we are trying to save the economy, we are building a bridge over this hole, we are slowly going to revitalize. It is clear that adjustment is also ahead of us that the road map for adaptation must be drawn. This interest rate does not exist forever. We also need to be able to handle these debts. Employment measures are more important than ever; they must also be returned to them soon. But when there is talk of mistrust that, without budgetary restrictions, expenditure is presented recklessly, then the least one can expect is that it would not be the expenditure itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u31	Madam President! The criticism of this amending budget by the Christian Democrats is not in the case of individual increases in appropriations, which in themselves have quite good, important targets, such as investments in children and young people, but in the absence of a clear plan to balance the economy. This also lacks a clear plan for employment growth. We have a recent figure for Statistics Finland: there are now 96,000 fewer employed persons than one year ago at this time — 96,000 fewer. It is such a huge figure that one could imagine that this focus of the government's amending budget would definitely be on how to increase jobs, how to maintain jobs in Finland. On the other hand, the government has made budget increases here which have not been covered for the entire duration of them, including those of itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u32	Mr President! This amending budget is extremely necessary for employment. If we did not now strengthen the resources of the authorities, we would have confidence that we will also be able to keep things under control next autumn, it would create an uncertainty in the economy that would destroy jobs. That is why this amending budget is absolutely necessary: increases in appropriations for municipalities, medical districts and businesses. I think, Mr Orpo, that you are now explaining away what your original position on this amending budget was. I'll borrow it. When the amending budget was made public, you said: ‘An additional budget will lead to a long-term crisis, but it has resulted in a sound distribution of money. “ In other words,in June, this supplementary budget wasalready a sound distribution offunds and you added that‘this You said you could not accept this amending budget. It now seems that Parliament largely approves this amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u33	Mr President! Mr Lindtman now seems to have no idea how government affairs are handled.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u40	Madam President! This amending budget, in the midst of the corona crisis, aims to save businesses, save people, ensure that young people and children have a future. When you look at the welcome this crisis package received from the opposition parties, Mr Räsänen said that in the selection house, impulse purchases with a credit card, Mr Orpo said that the reckless money sling and Mr Halla-aho said that this was the looting of a stinking bankruptcy estate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u46	Honorable Speaker! Let us start with the general picture of the economy that is at present. We have a rather gloomy employment and economic outlook, but hopefully they will improve. And then, as far as this state debt is concerned, it should be understood that the essential thing about it is the central government debt ratio, i.e. the GDP ratio, or vice versa, and if we want to halve this debt ratio, then we have to halve the debt or we have to waste the GDP. There are two ways here, and the optimal government debt-taking ratio is about half of GDP growth every year, but as we can see, this year there will be a lot more, but hopefully less debt coming next year. The key economic challenge is the management of the sustainability of the economy, i.e. the adjustment of expenditure. Although the debt management costs are quite reasonable at the moment, we have a problem with the government’s recklessly indebtedness, which means that central government finances are in deficit. Measures would have to be taken to create jobs, even if a substantial increase in the reduction in labour income would have to be made. This would create more employment, more income. That's how the government's debt ratio would be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u47	Mr President! With regard to this additional budget proposal, we can say that it can be divided into two parts: firstly, to repair the damage caused by the interest rate, and secondly, to start to revitalise the economy so that we can have, say, the economy and the economy and jobs. We are now in such deep financial distress that we will not get away with this except work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u51	At this point, Minister Vanhanen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u52	Mr President! I too think it would be very good if this crisis were at a stage where we could start to focus on how to deal with post-care, but unfortunately I do not believe that the crisis is at that stage. Yesterday's employment figures actually prove that the government's proposal and the approval of this additional budget by the whole Parliament are both right in terms of scale and timing. The decline in employment is now on the same scale as in the wake of the financial crisis, but has clearly taken place more quickly. According to yesterday’s statistics, the total number of unemployed and laid-off persons would already be over 17%. It tells us that demand and people's uncertainty, confidence factors are a major factor at the moment, especially in terms of domestic consumer demand, and this budget as a whole seeks to mitigate and revive this uncertainty. And when I was not preparing an additional budget, I dare also praise the government for the fact that the scale and timing were correct, and it seems that there are no changes to these targets in this parliamentary debate. They have been prepared quickly, but there is a good understanding of these. But what will happen in the future: I hope that the epidemic in Finland has been overturned, but in the world it will be worse than it has been so far. Almost everywhere, the future forecast of the national product appears to be minus 5, 6, 7, minus 8 per cent. You don't have to be an economist to understand that it's going to be followed by not ordering more than plane tickets. There will be a lot of orders where our industry is a supplier, without getting it in the near future, and I am afraid that, after the health crisis caused by the epidemic, we have not yet seen the picture of the economic crisis. I fully agree with everything that has been said about employment measures. So far, the government has made a partial decision on the pension pipeline. That decision has already been taken on some 5,000, and after careful preparation of the autumn budget, employment measures must be taken and an even higher target set. That objective must, of course, be dimensioned according to the scale of this debt-to-equity swap. At the moment, it is estimated to be 5 billion by 2030 according to the latest forecasts, but this is a moving target. We do not yet know what it is, and this requires, in this situation, that we do not lock down certain parameters, according to which we act, but accept, unfortunately, that there is quite a lot of movement going on here. I am afraid that when the autumn begins, we will continue to deal with this crisis in its various forms, hopefully not in terms of health, but in terms of the economy,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u53	Madam President! The government insists on a government programme that is ideological and harmful to ordinary citizens and owes unprecedented debts regardless of the interest rate. After all, the countries never pay off their loans; the group chairman of the Left Alliance, Mr Arhinmäki, also advised them. I would remind my fellow Member that the former Soviet Union also paid off its debts in the autumn of 2013, when Arhinmäki himself served as a minister. On the last item, we received $5 billion, and now this amending budget has more than EUR 5 billion on the expenditure side. Does the government recognize that its program has become obsolete? Do we understand the debt ratio?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u56	Mr President! The Finnish Government's economic policy is like the Swedish Corona Strategy: only good in their own eyes. If this recipe of ours, namely that we have record high public spending, record high tax rates and the most rigid labour market in Europe, were an international recipe for success, then listen, all the countries of the world would follow us. This week we became aware of how Finland is a country of very high costs. A normal household, a normal family, leaves little in the way of savings. And now, with this post-counsel situation, where there are now 200,000 unemployed job seekers in this country and, unfortunately, our outlook is only getting weaker, we are just waiting. There is no single reform, not one reform that would bring faith to young people who come from other parts of the world, for example, to give them a first chance to work. They know how to take debt and how to distribute money, but how about investing in people’s ability to spend money, work and thus make a living?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u57	Madam President! The post-Corona measures have been quite significant for the government, and for this I thank you. We're gonna have to start a little bit, first with the stimulus and then with the investment. We all know that there is a repair debt in our network, that we need to reduce it, and that is how the blood vessels of the industry are developed. Finland lives on exports, and of course we assume that exports will be re-running, and in this way we will improve employment in Finland, including through certain investments and investments in education. I think that this total amount of money is very important: EUR 3.6 billion for recovery measures in total. This is clearly not acceptable to the opposition. But, as has been said here, there are no changes in your objections. You only have statements there. This shows that you are in the same line. The government's measures are important to you, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u58	Mr President! Indeed, we have an historicly large amending budget of 5.5 billion. For these good actions, what the government is doing now — this is the time for the whole Finnish package: The first thing you could do is take this big section of the municipality. The municipalities have been in trouble because of the corona. It puts 1.4 billion in our daily everyday services in the municipalities. The other large entity is indeed a network of roads and waterways. This also affects the whole of Finland. Thirdly, what the opposition is challenging, yes, we have quite a large package to solve the current business problems in terms of cost support and other things, but for the future, for example, investment in ore processing and battery technology, things to come to education, they seek new, excellent start-ups for new industries. Similarly, this will accelerate exports and business activity. Indeed, I am looking forward to the figures that have changed since then from the assembly and also from the Christian Democrats. What do you want to change them with?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u59	Madam President! The last time we have heard in committee today is how the interest rate measures have successfully helped to overcome the spring. We also heard about challenges such as freelancers and self-employed forms of support. So there is still a lot of work to be done on interest rate operations. We hope that basic income or the experiment with negative income tax will bring more lasting solutions to these groups. The Coalition Party is asking us what we're going to do about income formation. The recovery package has specifically kept businesses up so that jobs are maintained and the crisis is not prolonged. Investments have been made in the competitiveness of the future by strengthening investments in education and high levels of knowledge and research. Knowledge is a prerequisite for the success of a small export-driven country. That is why it is important to ensure that Finland does not fall short in the face of an ageing population. In recovery measures, we will also strengthen competitiveness by targeting the building of a carbon-neutral society. This work will all be ahead of us in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u60	Mr President! Mr Vanhanen's speech was wise and reassuring and well described this situation, on which there is some consensus now. It makes sense to use the deficit, increase the deficit, buffer this shock. And as economists in all countries remind us, then there must be a credible adaptation programme. The Greens report also says that it should be presented at the same time as these recovery measures are decided and implemented as soon as possible during this parliamentary term when the economy starts to recover. Remember that, too, from the Greeny report. However, the reason why I cannot believe that you are capable of doing this is because I have already seen you act in a similar situation where there is no recession but there is a major structural problem. That was when the government started and no one had ever heard of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u63	Mr President! The government does recognise some of these problems, such as the chaotic municipal situation, but clearly does not quite see the reasons behind them. Of course, interest is not the reason for the poor situation in the municipalities, but the corona has provided the government with a kind of smoke screen, [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u66	Mr President! Let us try to make this a relative situation. So we had a budget of 55 billion for this year, and now 12 billion more will be spent on these direct costs and on the economy resulting from the interest rate crisis. It will cost between 2 and 3 billion directly to maintain employment, and then also tax subsidies. It's about 2,000 euros per person. If you think, it is not an impossible sum to keep the wheels running, keep as many jobs as possible and keep the company alive. That is employment policy. It is also for the 100,000 or 200,000 jobs to be created and for us to keep existing jobs alive. It is much more expensive to go after bankruptcy to build a new one than to keep as many existing jobs as possible, and this is a government strategy that has worked quite well up until now. Now we need those additional measures to create permanent job opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u68	Mr President! Mr Purra has just made a valuable speech to me that if the Finns made this package, we would do this very differently. If you looked at our last season, for example...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u75	Mr President! Once again, I will return to this alternative to the Convention. Its main content is the employment measures that we have listed, which have been evaluated by the Parliamentary Information Service, and according to the latest estimates, the impact of more than 100,000 new jobs can be verified. They're executable. There is a part of the action that would bite right away but would be easy to do. It is therefore a concern that the government, time and again, postpones the actual employment measures. Now you have said that a new target will be decided in the autumn. It can't be postponed. You should now take decisions on what is being prepared, now that this is so far along, and in the autumn debate to take concrete decisions. If you can't do it in the fall, then the locals are ahead. You will not be able to do anything when there is a midwayer, a spending limits bar next spring, and then we will be too close to the next elections. It is becoming less competitive now, and unemployment is falling now, and if competitiveness is falling, then it is
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u76	Madam President! I cannot help but wonder whether, after we have lived through this heavy interest-bearing spring, which has hit society and tested health care and the economy and, of course, employment, the coalition now expects that instead of focusing on these acute corona treatment measures and now proposing a EUR 5.5 billion stimulus package, so that we can act differently so as not to make the same mistakes that have been made during the previous so-called recessions, would we rather not have taken care of people during this corona period?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u79	Madam President! I have already withdrawn my speech, but I will use it now that I have been given it. I wonder what is going on here. We are in crisis. We are still in the context of the international economic crisis, of which a small Finland, a small economy, is now trying to make progress through, among other things, this revitalising amending budget. The way forward is quite clear. The Budget Committee will decide whether further resuscitation is needed, employment measures and a path to further debt management in the autumn. That is quite clear. This is quite clear to me, at least. I don't know if it's for the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u86	Then Mr Heinonen and then Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u87	Madam President! Yes, jobs, businesses, well-being have had to be safeguarded here, and the coalition has actually made targeted increases during this crisis. It has often happened that the government has taken the line of the coalition, but unfortunately it is often too late.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u92	Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u93	President! The government will do as it has previously been decided in the autumn budget debate, including the employment measures that are being called for here, and will also set higher targets, which will then also require preparation. In other words, setting targets does not mean giving up the decisions of the autumn budget debate. But, of course, in this debate on employment, it is perhaps confused in the eyes of the public whether employment measures are only statutory and system-related labour supply decisions or other decisions relating to recovery and economic policy. The government has made a great deal of decisions that create room for new growth and employment. In other words, employment policy needs not only the supply of labour, it needs productivity gains, it also needs decisions on the part of the public authorities — as is the case throughout the world — which, as it were, create room for new growth, and that is how it is going to be done. Nor do I think that employment policy should be limited in this political debate to these aspects of labour supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u96	Madam President! The amending budget proposes support to safeguard the operation of cargo and passenger shipowners. It's good. It's important. As a result of the interest rate crisis and the related restrictions, the cash flow of Finnish cargo and passenger shipowners has decreased significantly and the operating conditions have become more difficult. The number of passengers travelling from Finland to Sweden and Sweden to Finland is so low that these transport connections are not profitable to operate. At the same time, there are often 50 trucks on the car deck of each passenger ferry, which is important for Finland’s security of supply with regard to food and medicines. The Government will make a regulation with more detailed guidelines. It would be important to ensure that this aid is paid retroactively from 19 June. After all, the support of the Security of Supply Centre ended on 18 June, and it is essential that that period does not come, as it jeopardises the viability of the shipping companies and the ability to survive the winter beyond the peak season of next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u97	Let us take three more speeches and then we shall have a so-called'mild exchange' here. The next item is Mr Östman, then Mr Guzenina, and then here we are.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u98	Madam President! 20 billion more public debt — 20 billion. We are not talking about a small hole or, Mr Arhinmäki, a small credit card line. In economic history, the State's ability to pay has been considered to be a 90 % leverage ratio. At this rate of debt, we're close to the border. In the past, it was a matter of honour that children and grandchildren were often wanted for their own good to leave their inheritance. Now, for posterity, there is not only a crooked age structure but also a huge debt. Does this generation, in its greed, overwhelm itself not only from nature but also from the economy, losing what previous generations have built? Increasing debt is not a sustainable solution. We Christian Democrats expect the government to take comprehensive measures to stabilise employment and the economy, as well as structural reforms this year. It is worth reading our group's statements and amending budget initiatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u99	Mr President! The Prime Minister has just spoken very wisely, and on this basis I think it is a good idea to ask — correct, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u102	President! Mr Vanhanen, we both know that in such a situation, even the most appropriate employment measures in the public sector are not those that bring about a new employment boom in our country. Among other things, innovative measures are, in the long term, yes, of course, solutions that contribute to employment, but we are now in a situation where business-led solutions are needed to clearly change the level of employment, the structure. At the moment, I sincerely say that it has been startling to see where they are, why they have not come. That is why I ask you, when you are well aware of the fact that you see that, in this situation, the significant obligation of the social partners to increase their responsibility would also be one that would bring about reforms in the labour market field, including a local agreement on them in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u103	Now I would ask those Members who wish to take part in this debate to press the response button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u104	Mr President! That is where the television screen is behind this debate: employment, for obvious reasons, then came to the centre of the debate. I am surprised at the list of employment in the Coalition Party when the first three points are read here: the differentiation of earnings-related unemployment benefit, the abolition of the unemployment pipeline, the promotion of local reconciliation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u107	Mr President! The Finns have wanted to give the government peace of work in the management of the corona crisis during the spring. We have supported the government in its efforts to prevent infection and have also made proposals to maintain the economic climate. Mr President! It is understandable that public debt will increase so temporarily beyond normal years, but when at least the first wave of the epidemic seems to be calming down, we must begin to plan for the future in the longer term too. Finland's public finances must not fall into a downward spiral due to the accelerating indebtedness, and I am very concerned about the functioning and programme of this government. Mr President! In future, the Government should prioritise expenditure targets. It should reduce the obligations imposed on municipalities and refrain from unnecessary new expenditure items. These include:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u108	Mr President! Listening to this debate creates the impression that we have some very different idea of what should be done now, but when you look at the concrete proposals for change that have been made, the situation is no longer the same. Both the opposition and the government seem to believe that the government's proposal for a draft amending budget is targeted and is also in line with its scale. The criticism therefore seems to be particularly relevant as to whether employment measures or structural reforms have been taken and whether they have been implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u109	Madam President! This additional economic assessment lacks all the essential means of responsible and sustainable economic management.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u117	Representative Lindtman and then Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u118	Mr President! In fact, the previous speech rather summed up the opposition policy of the Coalition Party. In other words, like Orpo before, Kopra here was horrified by this distribution of money, although at the same time, in fact, Parliament is very much in agreement with this amending budget. That is clear, if I understand correctly now that before the municipalities or hospital districts had received this necessary money or before we had received the resource by which we support those at risk of dropping out of school to carry out a screen examination, for example, the Coalition Party would have wanted decisions on cuts in income support and unemployment security — this point. [Jukka Kopra’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u119	Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u120	Mr President! This debate brings out the ideological differences that we have always had in Finnish politics, especially those relating to the labour market, in a very proper and healthy way. The representative, Mr Kanerva, very much called for what is the responsibility of the organisations. Yes, the responsibility lies not only with regard to employment measures but also with regard to the traditional overall competitiveness of this kind. Personally, I am afraid that the spill-over effect that comes from that fall in the world economy and in our export countries will raise very big questions about how we can sustain exports. But it is a good thing to make a few comments about this debate when you go through these objections: First of all, despite all the criticisms, you object to setting a limit where the level of public debt should not exceed 80%. I think this is quite a good estimate, this is a realistic estimate, but that means that you too are aware that the depth of this crisis is such that between 40 and 50 billion people will be in debt compared to the initial phase of this crisis. 40 to 50 billion is what the outlook for this decade is, and it tells us of this scale. Instead, in your analysis, you, the True Finns, accept that debt can be temporarily incurred. I am afraid that this is not temporary, but debt is the problem of this decade. In your analysis of this objection, when you assess these future threats, it is said that the most worrying risk is associated with this second wave of epidemics and that there is a need to close down the domestic market again. It is certainly an important risk, but it is the most worrying economic risk — and here the experience of the financial crisis is the background — linked to this world market and the development of our European export markets.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u121	Madam Speaker! True Finns are really concerned about this overall picture of the economy. We are horrified by the direction in which more debt is taken and, at the same time, more taxes are added. What is the future of Finnish work? The purchasing power of workers is weakening, taxation is increasing, competitiveness is weakening. You tax companies to death, and the reforms, the reforms that are really needed in this country, are still exhausted. Of course, we continue to encourage the government to change rapidly. True Finns have pointed out that when the unemployment of some of these immigrant groups is still enormous and in the capital region about 40% of all social security contributions are already going to immigrants, the government only reacts by flying new teenagers — unfortunately for quite a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u123	Mr President! The contribution of the amending budget to infrastructure, employment and education is in line with the recommendations of economists. They're building a bridge to the future. The opposition's desired adjustments would be completely irresponsible and premature in the midst of the corona crisis and would lead to human distress and would hamper economic growth. The Finns Party both wanted investments in municipalities and called for cuts in the public sector. It is rather contradictory, and in the same speech. [Left: Yes!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u124	Madam President! The interest-bearing crisis causes many kinds of debt: not only financial, but also nursing debt. I will give some food for the autumn and I hope that you will pay particular attention to people getting treatment, getting surgery, waiting lists and operating within the framework of the treatment guarantee. It is extremely worrying if the second wave of the corona comes and is likely to do so, and we must make every effort to prepare ourselves. It is worrying that the health sector, which I am sure we all regard as extremely important, has remained at the bottom of the gap in the corona gap. Nurses have not received coronals; on the contrary, their working conditions and working conditions have been tightened. I would like you to note this in the government too, and perhaps you would also mention in one of your speeches the importance of the health sector. The interest supplement should have belonged to the nurses, just as the Defence Forces are going to increase the future fees for the Peacekeepers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u126	Madam President! I personally feel that I am a defender of regional policy and that I am in favour of a decentralised society, and I must say that in the years 11 to 15, when the Prime Minister's delegation was in power, I followed that you really did not spin your thumbs at that time. At that time, garrisons were abolished, billions of municipalities were cut off from municipal services, a major municipal reform aimed at the closure of 200 municipalities and towns in the region. This amending budget now wants to do things differently. This is about to be a billion-dollar investment, which is intended to have a leverage effect and to create more jobs for private companies in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u127	Madam President! There is no doubt that the employment and economic situation following the corona crisis is worrying and that is why the government, with this fourth amending budget, will continue to manage the corona crisis in a sustainable manner. With the sustainable recovery of the amending budget, we are at the same time contributing both to combating climate change and to improving employment. A study of the recovery after the 2008 economic crisis showed that the money spent on green recovery created three times as many jobs as the tax euros invested in the fossil economy. The working life professor Vesa Vipriälä's working group has highlighted the promotion of green technologies through research and support, rail investments and other non-emission-free transport development, energy renovations in buildings and the promotion of renewable energy. Among other things, it is these measures that the government is now implementing with this amending budget. In addition to this, these educational contributions will bring us the experts of the future with which this sustainable society is built.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u128	Representative Mäkynen — gone. Well, that's Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u129	Mr President! Even before this corona crisis, this government became aware that it continued to postpone employment measures, but of course it had no difficulty making millions go. When the corona crisis struck — which the government of the epidemic itself has handled well, as I have said many times — then these millions turned into billions. There's a list of all the good things you can get with these billions of dollars. That's not a difficult thing, is it? I think we could easily fit 10 billion more into good targets in this Chamber,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u132	Mr President! The representative of Purra here in the Chamber earlier made an excellent point both in terms of the situation in the municipalities and in terms of the public sector. There's a little detachment from the left side of the hall on this subject. According to the OECD comparison, Finland has the second largest public sector in the world. The difference with France is a bit nice. At the same time, Finland is the most expensive country in the euro area. The value of Finland is not a coincidence. This is the result of the cost burden that ultimately results from too heavy a burden on the public sector. After this additional budget: we will experience tax increases and more tax increases. Mr Lohikoski said that this amending budget will help ordinary people to survive. Would it not be a good adjustment for this particular group, for example, to abandon the increase in fuel tax, which is already coming this summer?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u133	Mr President! I will just say briefly to this situation in the municipalities when Mr Slunga-Poutsalo raised it — I did not have time to say it in the previous speech. I was a little concerned, among other things, by the speech by Mr Purra, who is the chairman of the Administrative Committee, who is responsible, among other things, for municipal affairs, when he said that the corona was not the reason for the chaotic situation in the municipalities. As a municipal decision-maker, I can tell you that, of course, the local government economy had difficulties in the past, but with this interest rate, large deficits are coming. For example, my own municipality, 100 million, half a billion in Helsinki, and about 3 billion in total, and some of it now, about one and a half, will be managed with this amending budget. In other words, the chaotic situation in this year's municipalities is very much the result of this interest rate, and that is why I would like to see this not being underestimated in the municipal economy, but now giving support to the measures that the government is now supporting the municipalities. I'm sure we'll need more.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u134	Mr President! I can sincerely agree with Mr Lindtman's speech on support for municipalities. Similarly, investments in children and young people, investments in education and investments in municipalities above all — this amending budget has been expected and hoped for for for a long time by the municipalities. [Left: Just like this!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u135	Mr President! Let’s start with the Sitat: ‘The above adjustment needs to be done with the two of That is what the Finance Minister, Mr Vanhanen, said wisely, referring to the domestic recovery and European recovery, and to the fact that adjustment must therefore be made on top of each other and at the same time. In other words, decisions that permanently bring revenue to the level of expenditure must be made at the same time and on top of each other. Of course, it does not matter whether decisions are taken now or in September.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u138	And a minute is a minute. — Next, Mrs Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u139	Madam President! Even the best intentions can be ruined by bad planning and implementation. According to the Committee on Finance, a rapid recovery is averting the interest rate. It is a good idea: rapid recovery can be achieved quickly, has a rapid effect and, above all, can be stopped quickly. Recovery measures packed in the amending budget do not really meet any of the above-mentioned speed conditions. In particular, measures are slow and politically very difficult to put an end to. They are therefore not a stimulus, but a further expansion of the public sector into debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u142	And at this point, Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u143	Mr President! When I became Minister, I saw the task of the next few years just as Mr Mykkänen said, but I did not take the view that we should, as it were, hold the same sitting, in the same decision to do all of this. No, no, no, no, no. I am one of those politicians who think that things should be well prepared before decision-making. It was now important that both these maintenance decisions and the recovery decisions, of which this additional budget is divided into approximately two parts, could be decided, they were well prepared. I do not share the fact that only 10 billion could have been added. I do not believe that there have been so many specific resuscitation targets. This is where all the items that are feasible under this additional budget schedule were dug up. On top of this, we have stimulus measures at both domestic and EU levels that need to be done at both levels. Their implementation takes time, and at the same time as this big step, adjustment measures must be prepared. We must assess these employment measures, which we have had a lot of talk about, but we will have to assess when this picture of the situation becomes clearer, including the role of fiscal policy in the coming years, but it is not the time at the moment. I myself am aware that fiscal policy also has to do, and I am not talking about tightening up more widely, but it is necessary to assess the way in which this debt reversal takes place over this decade, how to schedule it, and this needs to be carefully prepared. In that sense, in the preparation process, we will both have to work with resuscitation and, on the basis of the situation picture, develop a survival strategy forward, and the government has told us that this survival strategy is being implemented. These steps towards reconstruction are being prepared and, in due course, will return to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u144	Mr President! I have read about investments in education, young people, and I can see clearly from it that the government wants to see an arc and a formula where there will be a lot of debt payers in the future. [Right : We need it! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u147	Mr President! We do not have a broad welfare society without a high employment rate, and the interest rate crisis in all its surprisingness has no reason not to do those jobs. The government did not have employment measures before the interest rate, and it now seriously appears that even in the forthcoming budget debate they will not be possible to agree on them. In the public domain, we have read that new objectives will then be set, and there has been no shortage of them from the outset. There have been high targets in terms of employment rates, there have been high climate targets, but the problem has been that these actions are missing. We now have a massive debt in our hands. It is understandable that the interest rate will have to be charged, but at the same time we should be able to make structural decisions here that strengthen the ability to repay the debt in the future and create faith in the future. I don't see it in this budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u150	Madam President! I would ask Mr Vanhanen: When you were Prime Minister in 2009 and we were still in recession, the VAT on food was reduced by 5 percentage points. That would probably be a very good move at this point too, because the income of people with low incomes in particular goes to a large part of the food and would have a direct impact on purchasing power. Among other things, Germany will reduce VAT on food to as low as 5%, and we are still in 14. So here in Finland we are very heavily taxed on eating people. Is there at least one measure that could be considered for the most low-income people?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u151	Madam President! A couple of things. Firstly, Mr Zyskowicz expressed doubts about the soundness of these transport investments. You might want to look a little deeper. A great many of them serve the transport of the forest industry. For example, Antti, Director General of Natural Resources Centre Asikainen’s own studies have concluded that every single wood mot that is processed from fibre wood in Finland into pulp or sawn wood or as a building log or something else, the added value for society, every single mot, is EUR 242. This investment in transport projects is certainly the greatest wisdom this government can do: investing in natural resources. And every investment that is invested in natural resources is certainly the best option for the climate, because in other parts of the world these things are not so well known. The second point is this investment in education and training. You also have to believe in the future, and I very much hope that now that there seems to be a lot of anxiety about the municipality and someone seems to know there is nothing to worry about, then you should look at your municipality's papers a little bit, because there's unfortunately that corona walking against you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u152	Representative Kiuru Pauli and then Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u153	Madam President! Employment is important and creating new opportunities and faith. Here, on the environment and nature conservation side, in point 35, funding has been allocated for temporary tasks in the nature conservation sector. Good in itself — there is a lot of demand. The problem is, of course, that these tasks are temporary, temporary. We have a great network of national parks. Their use has increased by 100% in ten years. According to the Government Programme, the national park network will be expanded. I encourage the government to take measures to increase the supply of nature entrepreneurs and programme service entrepreneurs to bring new entrepreneurs into the sector. There is clearly hidden demand there, especially now that domestic tourism is increasing, and when borders open, demand from abroad is bound to increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u154	Mr President! There is a need to learn from the various crises and their after-care and to take an example. In the wake of the financial crisis, taxation was the main source of recovery. It was considered to be the strongest at the time, and there was also a strong investment in the start-up of construction, including a 10% subsidy for housing companies and so on, and a great deal was invested in financing exports. The banks were guaranteed in this Chamber with EUR 50 billion, and a mandate was given for the capitalisation of the EUR 4 billion banks, which fortunately was not needed. But every crisis is different. At the time, VAT on food was not really a means of recovery, as it was agreed in the Government Programme. The crisis may have had some effect on its timing. However, the write-off of the company's Kela levy was appropriate during the recovery period and aimed at improving the competitiveness of industry in particular. This is a different crisis. This is where recovery measures have been assessed in relation to this crisis, and I would not at this stage be opening up the tax side in any direction. We need to assess the fiscal stance, considering this whole decade of indebtedness that has begun, very carefully what movements can or should be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u155	Mr President! This additional economic assessment includes a very important package of support for the municipalities of our country. Many municipalities and cities have commended this and have also said that there is a need for additional money, and municipalities will need very much support in the future to overcome this corona crisis. In addition to this, the government is directing its support for the MAL agreements in urban areas in order to mobilise housing construction, important transport projects, and these are revitalising measures that will also lead to more flow for our economy. Many economic experts, economists, have said that the line chosen by the government is quite right. This is not the time for cuts, not a policy of oblivion, but now is the time to ensure that the municipalities and the economy keep moving. The last time the Mayor of Helsinki, Jan Vapaavuori, said that this is not the line and time and place of surgery and drying,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u157	Mr President! It would certainly be acceptable in this Chamber if it were now a recovery package, but this package contains more than the corona-related stimulus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u160	Mr President! After all, there are many good things in this amending budget, such as the municipal economy and the children and young people and starting places and routes. I think they are good things in themselves. This is the starting point I'd like to ask you about. It is also a good thing that starting places came to higher education institutions, but the problem is that the unit price will now be 6,000 in the future, and when some training programmes cost much more, then the universities will have to take it from other funding to train these more expensive training programmes and, on the other hand, it has also contributed to the fact that, for example, medical training, veterinary training, pharmacological training cannot be started because they are more expensive, and that is where it is needed. In other words, a wish to the government that not only the amount but also the impact when you think about the distribution of the money. Then, of course, it is important to anticipate another wave. Denmark in its time suffered from a second wave during swine flu,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u161	Mr President! It is good that there has also been a tax debate here. This government has not tightened taxes here; on the contrary, significant tax changes have been made in the name of recovery and crisis management, for example in favour of municipalities, the distribution of corporation tax has been changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u166	Madam President! It is clear that an amending budget will be necessary, and there is also a lot of good in it, but once again it has included the ideological and pointless distribution of money by the government. Now that the interest rate is being revived, billions are being talked about, and it is now easy for the government to put its own ideological issues in it with millions of euros. There is no limit to the joy of the government when you can put millions in it to promote the red - green idea. There are tens of millions more euros in forest protection, as well as millions of euros in preparation, so that the basic capital of the African Development Bank can be increased. After all, the Government Programme aims to increase partnership with African countries. The government also pays great attention to the promotion of immigration and refugee counselling in the amending budget. The Government Programme aims to improve animal welfare, so an additional EUR 1.5 million will be added to the giant pandas of the Ähtär Animal Park. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u167	Madam President! This exceptional size of the amending budget is due to the fact that we are living in very exceptional times. Our society has been plagued by Korona. It is now time to revitalise ecologically by rebuilding the economy, both to save businesses and to help the people affected by this situation. I am pleased that the government, at the same time as we help businesses and people, is also building the future in a sustainable way. I also welcome climate and nature investments. The government is proposing a billion dollars for sustainable transport. There are also subsidies for energy renovations, forest protection and nature conservation, as well as for disengagement from fossil fuels and a significant contribution to the climate fund. In this way we are really building a sustainable future economically and socially and ecologically.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u168	Mr President! Here the opposition talks a lot about this amending budget from the angle that this amending budget does not have instead of talking about what is there. This is an important amending budget at all levels. Let us take this corona virus epidemic seriously now and make up for these economic difficulties that we have. We have used the term May Day, and I am very pleased that there seems to be support in the opposition for the entry in the Government Programme which starts with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u171	Mr President! The government is now taking debt so that people, jobs, businesses and municipalities can overcome the disadvantages of the corona crisis. As the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, said, there will be a lot more debt to take over in the coming years. Rapid and drastic adjustment would be very damaging to economic recovery. I am very pleased that the government has proposed some EUR 320 million in the fourth amending budget for municipalities to mitigate the impact of the corona crisis on children and young people. As we know, the corona crisis has distinguished the position of children and young people. This welfare package is divided into several ministries, and the share belonging to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is EUR 112.3 million. The aim of the welfare package is to reduce the disadvantages caused by corona.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u172	It's almost time for this debut. On this point, I will give another 1 minute speech to the chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen, and then 2 minutes to Mr Vanhanen, and then turn to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u173	Mr President! Indeed, the Minister of Finance has also stressed this peaceful progress so that the situation must be brought under control and then made decisive progress. The opposition wants to give the impression that this sort of 67 billion budget level would be as if from now on prevailing, but this is not the case. This year there will be many billion that will not be repeated in next year's budget, which is one-off expenditure. And for this sort of 67 billion level the state budget would only come at the point when gross domestic product is twenty per cent bigger, 300 billion level. Then there will be a time again when we will return. This is now an exceptional, record-level year, and it is precisely because of the exceptional situation. And it makes sense to act quickly, to get control of the situation, to control employment and then to continue to work decisively for growth, employment and also structural reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u174	Mr President! Work in the face of this crisis, this additional budget is certainly not coming to an end. We are facing very high, unforeseeable risks in terms of the economy, but I hope that this assessment made just now by the chairman of the committee is true, an exceptional deficit which has responded to the acute situation and that there will be no such cycle again. But it is obvious that the deterioration in exports will lead to employment problems, a reduction in tax revenue, an increase in expenditure. This is going to be a chronic problem for us, and we need to get an answer to it. This debate also raised the issue of vaccination by Mr Risiko. This is one of the unforeseeable issues that we will have to deal with in future budgetary planning. We do not know what the price of vaccines is, but you could almost say that it makes sense to pay for them. If it works, it will make a great deal of money because the epidemic will not be able to move forward in the future. In other words, such unexpected expenditure will certainly continue to come and will be taken into account when it comes to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u175	And now let us move on to these pre-requested speeches, and here on the list is Mrs Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u176	Madam President! Minister Vanhanen spoke wisely about how to create jobs now by increasing demand. All economists know — and hope that everyone in this Chamber will understand — that, in this situation, jobs will be created in a different way than in the situation we were in before the corona crisis. For some reason, the Coalition Party demands the opposite: the Coalition Party requires cutting off low incomes. It may have been a little hard to follow the discussion when we have had a disagreement as to what is true, but I have here a list of these 60,000 jobs. In fact, there will be no job creation at all, but there will be these supply measures, some of which have been reduced by economists. There, 10,000 jobs would be created, in the opinion of the economists who use the majority and the majority, by cutting the earnings-related rate, by removing the 10,000 pension pipeline and then by removing the remaining 10,000 — there will be, among other things, a reduction in early childhood education contributions, which I warmly support, but it is also a measure that would increase debt, and this debate, which has taken place here, does not support the logic of the coalition. In the remaining 30,000 jobs, a rabbit has been pulled out of a hat. For them, the Assembly itself admits that it has not been possible to assess the effects. It is quite extraordinary that Mr Orpo here today argued that they have an economist's assessment of these when they do not actually have it. Mr President! In this respect, the Finns of Peru require the dismantling of municipal services. [Base Finns Group : No! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u179	Mr President! It is very cold to listen to these left-wing views about the increase in debt and how good they think it is. It must always be remembered that it is also a question of the debt ratio and the growth of GDP, and that although it can be said in relative terms that we are less indebted than some other countries, then the question follows whether the growth in our gross domestic product is also clearly better than in some other countries. Here comes the big question, and unfortunately this amending budget does not provide answers to that question. As was the case in this debat, the government asked the opposition for cutting lists, which you would have cut off, what you would have left out, but it is not in this amending budget that we should split up individual items and see if it is one million away or two million away. We could certainly have done the same, but when, here, the basis of this amending budget, and perhaps even more broadly, the basis of the government's economic policy, is so wrong that there are no plans here to balance our economy in the long term, how we will be able to get employment in order, how we will be able to get those lost 96,000 more jobs, how we will be able to save those jobs and how we will be able to make our jobs grow in such a way that we will be able to respond to the deterioration of the dependency ratio and, on the other hand, to the smaller age groups, which are therefore such that we cannot think that they will be swept under the unreturned and think that they will themselves in the meantime, but really these are the permanent challenges of our economy, and unfortunately the government will not be able to bring solutions here either. We Christian Democrats, as a parliamentary group, really want to remind you that this increasing indebtedness is not a sustainable solution, and that is why we are waiting for employment measures and economic stabilisation and structural reforms as a matter of urgency. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that companies have been allocated the EUR 300 million fixed-term cost support, which is important, and I am sure the opposition as a whole agreed on this. This is precisely the kind of cost support that would have been needed right away in the early stages of the crisis, but better late than then, or how that phrase went. But when it comes to business subsidies, attention must also be paid to the time when applications are processed, because there is a great deal of concern from the business field that these applications have already been processed for an excessive period of time, and this is particularly true in the applications in the Ely Centres. It is very important that companies receive support so that they can survive and keep jobs alive. In order to prevent abuse, it is also important that special attention be paid to the streamlining of these support processes and that sufficient resources be allocated. The KD would also like to draw attention to the fact that this amending budget contains proposals that create long-term and permanent needs for an increase in the budget. For example, higher education institutions are about to receive the very important, necessary 124 million additional funding for new start-up places, but the increase in these start-up places will increase the need for higher education funding in the years to come. According to expert reports, which we listened to in the Education Section, additional funding will only be sufficient for three years, while the need for funding will be at least five years, as these qualifications usually last. In that sense, one might say that the government also leaves this issue in the air as far as funding is concerned. After all, this week we had a debate on the question of carerization, which is also a budget law, but unfortunately, despite the fact that we have the largest, multi-billion-class amending budget of all time, there will then not be enough funding for this carerisation, but it has been said that these funding will then be provided through digitalisation. Indeed, we hope that the government will quickly adopt decisions on employment measures, structural reforms and the way in which we can balance and stabilise the economy, taking into account the correction debt of the corona crisis and the challenges that preceded it as a result of the reduction in birth rates. Mr President! In this context, when we have not received these from the government despite requests, I put it to the vote of censure: ‘The government has not brought employment measures under the Government programme,there is no clear plan to balance the economy. Under the pretext of the corona crisis, the government has introduced expenditure increases and proposals to Parliament that are not related to the management of the acute crisis but which will further increase the long-term government deficit. Parliament notes that as a result the Government does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament.”
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u180	Mr President! I shall begin by supporting Mr Heinonen's motion of mistrust. These comments by the left are explained by the fact that the very credible players in the Left Alliance have pointed out that they imagine that they do not have to pay off debts. There is no such thing as debt that no one would ask, but it is so that when a country is indebted here, those debts will be paid and, at this rate, the role of the payer will be our children and grandchildren. It is not responsible, and it is clear that, because of the fact that, under the pretext of the corona crisis, we have to take on debt just in order to take care of basic services and obligations and human health, we need to be accompanied by measures to strengthen the ability to pay debt in the future, and that people who are currently laid off and who are threatened or threatened by unemployment should have faith and prospects for the future. It took Finland almost ten years to cope with the previous economic crisis. 2008 After the Lehman Brothers, it took almost ten years. In the previous government, during Sipilä's government, we worked hard and made bad decisions in order to break the debt trend in Finland, and now this is the case again, which means that we are in debt growth and we are facing adjustment measures and decisions. Structural reforms are always better than direct cuts and savings, for example, from basic services that are important to us, such as health care, social services, roads, asphalts and, above all, education. That is why last August, before the corona crisis, the Coalition Party made credible proposals on how we can strengthen employment in Finland and thus ensure funding for the welfare society in the longer term. After last August, these employment measures were not seen from the government. In fact, even at the time of our alternative budget, we noticed that the government's efforts are very low in terms of employment: in other words, only reforms that undermine employment could be introduced and presented. Examples include, for example, weakening the household allowance, which is an incomprehensible decision. And now, in this situation of interest rates, as the employment objective has drifted further away, we still do not see any hope of genuine employment-enhancing reforms being carried out. Now my fear is that it is true what is being said here in Parliament's corridors: that the plan of the SDP is to pass on this post-cleaning, i.e. debt management and these difficult economic decisions to the future government. It's cloaked about timing. It is even said that ‘at the earliest 2023’, when the next government began — no matter how much it I do not understand why there are so many downtown representatives here in the Chamber because of these corona restrictions, but I hope that they will be given the question I would like to answer, namely whether the centre and, for example, the RKP can promise that you will not sit in such a government that so irresponsibly pass the problems on to others, but that they will really and truly face the problems and solve them. [RaimoPiiraisen intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u181	Before the break, let's take Mr. Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u182	Madam President! Thank you for this speech. — I would like to be the first to support the motion of censure tabled by Mrs Essayah. As many good proposals as the government has put forward, yes, indeed, as Mr Essayah has pointed out, the employment measures, the concrete measures that would improve the employment rate and help this crisis up and forward in a concrete way and in a sustainable way, we have had to wait and we still have to wait, and there are also these increases in expenditure, and so the motion of censure has been tabled and I support it. We also have objection 3 and there are eight statements with good proposals. I also support them, and I would like to raise a few points here. After all, the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of people have been very at stake in this interest-bearing spring and the existence of many companies has been questionable. Companies have had to struggle in a situation where their activities stop like a wall. In that sense, I am delighted to welcome and thank many entrepreneurs for this cost support, EUR 300 million for businesses. This will of course be late, but it is good that it is coming now, and it is particularly good here that various associations and organisations are now also able to apply for this cost support. The problem, however, is that this aid is linked to turnover subject to VAT, and I would like to see this examined in the committees. I would also like to see sufficient resources made available to these processing processes before committee reading, in such a way that entrepreneurs will no longer have to wait for these subsidies, because it is more than necessary for many entrepreneurs. Then I'd like to pick up the kids and the kids. The spiral of social exclusion among young people is truly alarming, the nausea of children and the difficult situation of families with children. It is good that efforts have been made, but concrete action is needed more quickly in this sector. Our children and young people are not just our future; they are an important part of our society today. In-house care, family carers have been in a very difficult situation throughout the summer, and there would be even more concrete measures needed. Let us hope that there will be some of them as a matter of urgency. But all in all, some investments have been made in municipal services, that is good, we need investments to dismantle care debts, more hands there for elderly services. And here I would like to raise the question that our 24-hour care units were in many ways in trouble even before the corona. The inspection authorities made alarming discoveries, and then there was the interest, and there were also the government’s recommendations, which were taken as orders, so that relatives, for example, could not even get to the 24 - day care units there. There has been a great deal of concern, and in addition to what has recently been mentioned here, I believe that the inspection authorities in the ports have not been in those departments all spring. This was something like going to those units with masks and masks to see what was going on. If there were problems even before the corona, then what is at the time of the corona, so I would like to see sufficient attention paid to this and indeed sufficient resources made available to our elderly people who have built this country and who deserve quality care, on the one hand, and the nurses who are doing their job, on the other hand, have sufficient resources to maintain an appropriate level of care there. And here when nurses and nurses came to be mentioned, so of course it is our corona supplement: in many countries this has been arranged in one way or another for nurses, nursing staff who work unsolicited and have in many ways also put their own health at risk and risk. We'll have to find a lot of money for this, too. All in all, of course, this fourth amending budget is record-breaking, so of course it has been a very different spring, but, as I said at the beginning of that speech, the sustainable employment measures, which are needed precisely to increase the employment rate, because only with work and entrepreneurship and the income that has come from it, Finland can move forward and rise. And I think there is an opportunity for cooperation here, but we also need to look closely at the items of expenditure and reduce unnecessary expenditure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u183	The debate and proceedings are adjourned and the session resumes at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u184	We shall now proceed to the third item of order adjourned at 2:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u185	Mr President! First of all, I would like to make sure that the motion of objection to the Assembly has been tabled. If not, then... - Okay, apparently it's all right. Good. All right, there's still an objection to that, and let's give the government a long summer break at the end of this season. Mr President! In my own speech, I will focus on this issue of debt. Now, in the midst of this crisis, it's come to light... [7 seconds break in sound recording]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u194	Mr President! Our regional newspaper in Northern Ostrobothnia, the newspaper Kaleva, said today in an editorial that the Finnish Government has handled the corona crisis successfully. I think this is a great thank you from independent, respected media to the government and all Finns. The fact is that together we have survived as a common nation so far and we have had to make tough decisions and we have all had to be flexible, which was mentioned in the recent Question Time, that special flexibility has been required both in families and in companies and among all Finns and among them during this time. We have had to make tough decisions, and this additional budget is also tough, but this is intended to soften the attacks that have been caused by the interest rate on children and young people, fathers and mothers, students, entrepreneurs and workers, the elderly and the unemployed. We are now discussing this additional budget for dealing with this crisis and for reviving it, but I would like to point out earlier today in the debate on this additional budget that, according to the Ministry of Finance, the actual budget for 2020 increased revenue by 70% of Finns. Mr President! It is good to hear that the opposition is now becoming a strong supporter, and that the coalition is also clearly on the government's side, that we want to join forces immediately in the autumn budget debate on the employment measures that will affect decisions. It is still true the old saying that strong public finances are the best friend of the poor, because then we will be able to take care of all people. For us in the centre, it is very important – and of course we expect what we are also committed to together in the government – that we have a strong will to find new jobs everywhere in Finland. I would like to thank the government for making decisions that will strengthen many jobs and skills in the long term in June, including by increasing the starting points for universities and the funding for continuous learning throughout Finland. Children and young people are the drivers of the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u195	Thank you. — For the sake of clarity, as stated in the Code of Conduct, the general debate in advance is five minutes long. It is now the case that until Mr Kalll, that list is reserved in advance and then there are three minutes' speeches. It is therefore the maximum length so that it is allowed to be shortened.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u196	Mr President! Only by investing in well-being, knowledge and ecological reconstruction can Finland emerge stronger from the corona crisis. This is a forward-looking and responsible economic policy. During the spring of the acute crisis, the Government focused on safeguarding people’s health and livelihood. The Government carried out the active fiscal policies required by the situation and launched a wide range of economic support measures during the spring. They have secured jobs and facilitated the economic situation of companies. We are now moving from an acute phase to a recovery phase. According to the latest forecast by the Ministry of Finance, Finland's economy will decline by 6 per cent this year. There is great uncertainty. A responsible economic policy in this situation is to focus on combating the social crisis, preventing unemployment and revitalising it. This will reduce the damage caused by the crisis and focus on people's well-being and the conditions for economic growth. Mr President! The fourth amending budget of the year's investments in infrastructure, employment, knowledge and research and development are in line with the recommendations of the Group of Economists and the Hetemäki Reconstruction Group. The increase to EUR 340 million in the interest subsidy mandate for housing production will enable the lending of 2,600 new dwellings and the increase of the ARA production to 10,000 dwellings in accordance with the Government Programme Note, and this is very important. The recovery package also includes important investments in rail transport, improving energy efficiency and promoting biodiversity. The recovery will certainly continue in the autumn as well as next year. In the selection of new recovery measures, particular efforts must be made to accelerate ecological restructuring and increase consumer demand in domestic service sectors, without forgetting the repair debt of the road network and railways. Measures to strengthen employment will be a key element in the autumn budget debate. Structural reforms, social reform and the expansion of compulsory education, which are important for Finland's future, have already been promoted by the Government. I particularly welcome the welfare package for children and young people, for which we stressed in the Committee on Budgets in particular the need to increase and enhance the services provided by the low threshold and early support. I also consider it important that the approach to children's leisure activities should become a permanent practice in municipalities and that it should also receive permanent funding. In addition, resource needs need to be monitored, for example for municipalities, public transport and the children and young people package. Mr President! In the report by the Committee on Finance, we have pointed out that the recovery should not be hampered by too early adjustment measures. It is not yet possible or even sensible to draw up a detailed plan of measures for the next ten years. You don't want to hang on to the debt level number either. The most important thing is to stabilise debt growth in relation to GDP by 2030. Finland now receives a loan at zero interest rates, and Germany, for example, has recently announced a recovery package of EUR 130 billion. The only way we're gonna get out of this economic crisis is by reviving it. In the debate on the draft amending budget for the right-wing opposition, the cut-off lists would be completely irresponsible and premature and would only lead to human distress and would hamper economic growth. As early as the autumn, we saw how the Coalition Party wanted to cut unemployment security and housing aid, although it was already clear at the time that the investment in knowledge is crucial to improving employment. This amending budget was previously referred to by the Assembly as a reckless money flow, but they in the Committee on Budgets did not finally find any euro to be removed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u199	Mr President! A total of EUR 5.5 billion will be launched by the fourth draft amending budget of the State to support the recovery of the Finnish economy from the halting attack by the corona virus. Increasing demand, improving Finland’s longer-term growth prospects, combating climate change and measures to promote biodiversity, strengthening Finland’s entire resources, crisis resilience, self-sufficiency and knowledge base, measures to support municipalities to ensure the provision of basic services, and a set of measures to support the well-being of children and young people — these priorities shed light on a solid foundation for recovery and rising from the yoke of corona. Mr President! As a significant part of the additional budget is still linked to the acute crisis and its post-treatment, the actual recovery rate is lower than the total contribution of around EUR 5.5 billion. The actual recovery consists mainly of infrastructure projects, R & D projects,inputs and inputs,majorities for industry-continuing actors. These investments will boost demand and thus support growth and strengthen the conditions for future economic growth. The total infra-assembly is approximately EUR 1.2 billion, which is amortised over several years. The infrastructure consists of MAL projects, industrial projects and so-called recovery projects. I would like to mention a few here: for example, the port of Oulu, which is linked to the MAL projects, the development of its traffic, the improvement of accessibility, and then, for example, Kontiomäki-Pesiokylä,which rail section will be improved to ensure the transport of raw materials in the forest industry in the coming years. The changes to labour law and unemployment security made in response to the crisis will continue until the end of the year, including the abolition of days of take-over, unemployment security for entrepreneurs, reduction of working conditions, halting the maximum calculation of earnings-related daily allowance. A total of 80 million will be added to employment, of which 60 million will be added to services and 20 million to the operating expenses of the TE Offices. Railway projects play a strong role, investing in public transport, walking and cycling. As the population of urban areas is projected to continue to grow strongly, accelerating housing production is one of the key objectives of the agreements. With regard to transport, investments will focus in particular on sustainable mobility, the promotion of public transport and the development of rail transport, with a view to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from transport and making land use and housing more sustainable. During the interest-rate epidemic, we have seen the importance of our communications networks, which is why the government is increasing funding for the broadband project by EUR 10 million. Mr President! The future will also be seen in the capitalisation of Suomen Malmiteos Oy — thanks to Tuula Haatainen. The aim is to increase the value added of Finnish minerals, thereby contributing to the formation of a new high technology battery industry in Finland and to profile as a global pioneer in sustainable electronic transport. The aim is to move towards a circular economy and thus reduce the use of natural resources. A total of EUR 450 million of additional funding is proposed to Suomen Malmi Refinery Ltd, of which EUR 150 million will be added to capitalisation to be used mainly to finance portfolio companies and EUR 300 million will be authorised to attract investments in the battery industry to Finland. I really wonder why the coalition is opposed to this project, because it has a very significant impact on jobs. It is estimated that this will immediately generate 300 person-years of indirect employment, with an overall impact of around 4500 person-years. So here is one employment example. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u200	Mr President! Unfortunately, it was expected that some children and young people will be negatively affected by the measures imposed by the corona epidemic. The exceptional situation, the interruption of hobbies and distance learning were reflected in the learning outcomes and well-being of many and weakened equality between children. For children who were already in a weak position, the situation was complicated during exceptional circumstances. Some of the people who were in remote education fell completely outside the school’s radar. The lives of a lot of families with children were also strained during exceptional circumstances. Mothers and fathers tried to work at a distance and at the same time teach their offspring. If parents and relationships had had problems in their normal everyday life, a great deal of association could tighten the mood during the corona weeks. Even before the corona crisis, municipalities have been in a considerable economic climate, which has been further exacerbated by the derogation period. I am therefore very pleased that the government has proposed to this fourth amending budget of the current year, through the system of central government transfers, some EUR 320 million to reduce the impact of the corona crisis on children and young people. This welfare package for children and young people would be divided into several ministries. The aim of the welfare package is to reduce the harm caused by corona, to support the well-being of children, young people and families, and to promote the learning of children and young people. The welfare package of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health invests EUR 112.3 million in the emergency situation caused by the interest rate in the services of children, young people and families and its after-care. In practice, these funds are intended to be allocated to low-threshold services for families, social services for children and families, and mental health services for children and young people. We need to get more mind professionals. It is truly worrying that families have to wait for several weeks, even months, for example, at a family counselling centre. We should get help right away, not the 15th. Today's government is being accused of being wasteful, but I think there's a consensus on children and young people in every party. We understand in the same way that cross-sectoral prevention and early intervention are the best strategy to overcome the problems. Spending on support for families and on psychosocial services for children and young people will cost themselves many times as much as it will avoid heavy follow-up measures. Early intervention and early support also provide the best response.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u201	Mr President! The Committee on Finance states in its report that economic recovery should begin immediately at the end of the acute phase of the corona crisis in order to keep the recession as short as possible. The government seems to think that the acute phase has come to an end because the non-restrained debt recovery carnival can begin. From an economic point of view, it is a critical mistake to imagine that the acute phase of the crisis is over. The pandemic continues to worsen, especially in America, South-East Asia and Africa. The acute crisis is not over. The halting of consumer-driven business started a chain crash, and this first one immediately caused a liquidity crisis in the financial markets, which the central banks shoveled into a blanket with play money so quickly that the media and the general public are still not fully aware of. As the pandemic worsens, the investment economy trucks are currently entering the brakes locked, the trailers on the link towards the crash site. It's going to go on for the rest of the year, and it's going to be next year. It has been gruesome to follow the claims made by representatives of certain government parties that governments do not have to pay off their debts. Just take up new debt; the magic wall becomes money easily and for everyone according to desire and need. In reality, Finland will pay back every single euro it borrows on due date. If you don't pay, it's gonna happen a lot and it's gonna happen fast. The payment will be made on new terms and conditions. It's called refinancing. It's easy to do this in normal times, but it's not a normal time. The government must learn yet another economic term: the risk of refinancing. As the global economy experiences a corresponding contraction in the financial crisis, its financing needs are growing at an accelerated pace, even without recovery measures. Governments, the financial sector, the corporate sector and, with delay, consumers need thousands of billions of new debt. In addition, there is also a huge need for refinancing of current debts. In the next five years alone, the need for refinancing of corona sensitive industries will be 1200 billion, at the very least. The ECB’s May review of financial stability reveals growing risks and events that were not reported in the mainstream media. Without the early intervention of the central banks of thousands of billions, the liquidity of the market would have ended like a wall. The five-year refinancing requirement of the Finnish state is over 58 per cent of the current loan stock, EUR 72 billion. This year and next year, nearly 30 and a half billion will be due. At least we know from past financial crises that everyone thought they were impossible even the night before. Mr President! If the expansion of the public sector into debt is a stimulus, Finland has been reviving the debt ratio continuously for more than ten years since the financial crisis, with a doubling of the debt ratio. Households have revived them, too, by heavily indebtedness. The economy has reached a point of boredom where no additional debt can generate any further growth. On the contrary, growing debt suppresses growth, too. So the acute situation is not over. The remaining fiscal leeway in Finland must be reserved for the worsening and management of the acute crisis in both companies and local government finances. As a result of the crisis in Finland, the refinancing of the rising central government debt will be secured only by adjusting public finances to the carrying capacity of private finances. I would like to put forward the motions for statements and amendments in response to the protests of the Finns, with the exception of Amendment No 13, the content of which we have detected a technical error. I will rectify this next: ‘The Commission requires that the government start planning to increase the reduction in labour income In addition, I object to the lack of confidence: ‘The government is determined to maintain its ideological government programme and to indemnify Finland in an exceptional way. The Government Programme and the actions derived from it will not improve employment, citizens' purchasing power, competitiveness or exports and will be detrimental to industry and economic activity with their oversized climate objectives. Parliament notes that as a result the Government does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament.”
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u202	Mr President! At the very beginning, I support Mr Satose's objection to the Assembly's Amendment No 2. It is a pity that Mr Salmonikoski has already left the Chamber, because I would have liked to have corrected his view, which has apparently already been repeated several times here. In other words, although we have mainly criticised the fact that, in this context, when significant expenditure increases were made, decisions should also have been taken on employment reforms, we have been able to find in this additional budget such items as could have been postponed to the future, and they can be found in the objections of the Coalition Party, broken down in the final paragraph. After all, the timetable for the amending budget was such that we listed them in this objection because the timetable for the adoption of individual budget initiatives should have been left in practice before this matter had been dealt with at all in the parliamentary committees. The second correction is to the one represented by: Lohikoski here claimed that the Coalition Party did not believe in the power of knowledge and the power of education. That is quite the opposite. That is why last year, for example, in our own alternative budget, we changed all the government's contributions to knowledge and education. After the government had proposed fixed-term increases in revenue from the sale of state assets — fixed-term expenditure increases — we made them all permanent, i.e. part of the normal budget and permanent expenditure, so that, for example, the teacher of vocational education and training would not have to fear what would happen after three years when this money from the state budget was exhausted. Now it seems that globally the peak of the epidemic has not yet been reached, and although the situation in Finland is currently looking very good with regard to the corona virus, yet the second wave is possible and the global economic crisis and the crisis in Finland's export economy may become even more acute. Now, however, the Greenelä report stated that an adequate recovery rate is several per cent of gross domestic product, and these simulations have been made according to around 2 per cent of GDP and public talk has been made of about 5 billion. The government has already spent around 3.6 billion on this amending budget. There is no point in starting recovery if consumers do not spend and companies do not invest. At the moment, the situation is very uncertain. If the crisis were to escalate again, the effectiveness of the resuscitation would be weak. Let's hope the government saves drinks for the future too. However, Prime Minister Marin said in the Prime Minister's Question Time that this amending budget is not an amending budget, but rather a compulsory expenditure, as it were, on interest payments and only a small part of recovery. However, the explanatory text of the amending budget itself states that the impact of the appropriation on the recovery package will be 3.6 billion. Perhaps it would be very important for the government to know what it is doing at the beginning, i.e. whether it is reviving or repairing corona tracks. In particular, it would be very valuable for the Prime Minister to know, so that when it comes to the situation, whether or not there will be a recovery in the future. At the end, however, I would like to say that resuscitation is absolutely right and necessary. At the same time, however, it has also been noted in the Vipriälä report, which now seems to have been very much read in government circles, that, at the same time as recovery is still taking place, the structural reforms should also be considered. There was reference earlier today in this Chamber to the reform of social security, and I do not think that it as a whole will be able to achieve this, as it were, the acute resolution of the crisis. But it would be very sensible to consider whether there would be elements that could be removed from this major overall reform and thus improve and reduce the incentives traps that have clearly become more visible as a result of this corona crisis. One of these concerns freelancers, people who, as it were, move between business, possibly scholarships and self-employment. For example, many such persons have at present fallen completely from both earnings-related and other unemployment benefits,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u203	Mr President! So we are now dealing with the fourth amending budget of the year, which amounts to EUR 5.5 billion, which will bring Finland into debt this year to nearly EUR 19 billion. We in the Assembly believe that an amending budget was also needed in this situation, but we find it shockingly large. Finland is very much in debt with this, and we also wonder at the statement made by the former Minister of Finance, Mr Kulmun, when he actually admired the fact that we are now presenting the largest amending budget of all time to Parliament. It feels really weird. There is also the point of view that we do not yet know whether the corona will be the second or third wave, and it seems as though we are already using all the debt and recovery resources we have, even though we do not yet know what will happen. The Coalition Party has therefore objected to this amending budget and its main content is that the public debt ceiling should be set at 80% and the employment target should be raised to 80% by the end of the decade. The number of employed persons must be increased by 100,000 during the current parliamentary term. So, in a nutshell: we accept indebtedness up to a certain limit, but that requires that we have thought about the income with which all this is financed, and we believe that employment is the most important thing here. We have proposed, among other things, extending the household allowance, increasing local reconciliation, raising the income thresholds for students' work, etc., and then these new structural reforms — social security reform is certainly the most important of them. Everyone in this Chamber knows that our social security system is a patchwork that has been built for years, and in some respects has led to the fact that it is no longer profitable to accept work. It is perhaps the most important reform, especially for young people, that working would always be more profitable than receiving social assistance. Another important reform worth mentioning here is the reform of social security. We would then be able to close the sustainability gap again, but unfortunately the characteristics of the social welfare reform which have been presented in public appear to be mainly that we are creating more governance in these new provinces, and at least that does not indicate that they will have savings in the future. Mr President! Of course, tax policy also needs to reflect on the changes needed to make it possible to back off from this path of debt. And yes, I would like to highlight the duty-free dividends of trade unions in particular. I wonder when they're going to get in the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u206	Thank you. — Before continuing the debate, I would like to say that the amendment you made is not possible at this stage due to the expiry of the deadline at 12 noon today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u207	Mr President! When it comes to expenditure, we consider it important that the Government immediately prepares a policy on the development of the European Monetary Union, which sets out Finland's positions on key outstanding issues and gives Parliament a report on them and as soon as possible. In addition, the Government must respect the positions of the Constitutional Committee and ensure that Finland’s responsibilities and risk claims do not become out of control. The Government should announce that Finland will not participate in the recovery tool under the EU recovery plan. Also check the current status of the backup payment system project and hurry to complete the operational backup system. These are the points that we make in our proposals. I would also like to ask again whether you recognise the ageing of the government programme and whether you intend to draw up an annex to your programme to the road map of economic adjustment and adjustment to the government programme. Mr Viitanen referred here to an increase in the reduction in labour income. That would be in everyone's interest, as it would eliminate underemployment caused by the incentivestraps. The implementation of this would increase taxation if an index check on the tables were not carried out in full, but of course a corresponding withdrawal would be made to a reduction in pension income, contrary to what has been said here, as Mrs Ranne has previously tried to put forward. In this respect, I support these proposals made by Mrs Rante. A significant increase in the reduction in labour income would reduce the tax rate on effective labour market participation and the effective tax rate on labour income. In addition, our system is already familiar with the reduction in labour income, which facilitates the planning and introduction of a larger reduction. We also want to continue to speed up the introduction of international climate duties. The polluter must pay, and the climate duties that have been put in place would be directed towards lower-emission production methods and well-managed countries. This would mean more investment, more jobs and more tax revenue. We must remember that they would also reduce the carbon and pollution leakage from the current level. In political circles climate leadership is generally acclaimed, which I see as such a virtue signaling, which is very little or no known outside the domestic political elite, but with these carbon tariffs we can actually direct third countries to more ecological and ethical solutions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u208	Mr President! This fourth amending budget strengthens the vitality of the country as a whole. Its task is to build faith and trust in the future among people of all ages, workers and businesses. The rebuilding of Finland after all this interest rate requires us to resuscitate, but also the decision-making capacity of the reforms that will build Finland stronger to face new challenges and crises. There has been mention here of social welfare reform and social reform, which must be taken forward. This amending budget concerns both the resolution of the crisis and its overcoming and the recovery. This municipal package, a large one, is really needed. For example, the State directly compensates the health care districts for the additional costs of intensive care by means of state aid. This is very important in small towns, for example, if there have been many people in intensive care. The share of municipal corporation tax will be increased on a fixed-term basis for this year and the central government share of basic services will be increased for the rest of the year. The discretionary State contribution will also be increased. Many road projects and fairway projects also help in different parts of Finland and bring work. It is important that children and young people and families are also taken into account because they have been tough this spring. This large package of support for children and young people also includes one pilot project, which is important and it is just like the beginning of a whole new one. It is this hobby model in which many children will find their strengths and skills also through the hobby. All learning supports each other. Everyone should find their strengths along the school path, and a good hobby can bring well-being and prevent exclusion. Through engaging together you will find friends and meaningful activities. You learn from everything. This is one good reform that this amending budget provides just like initial funding, and this is something to be included in from the outset. I am also delighted with the increase in R & D appropriations, as this will lead to the renewal, development and employment of companies. The money will also be directed to 4,800 new starting places for higher education institutions so that as many young people as possible can get out of that search ramba and cycle and start their studies at a university or university of applied sciences. It is also good that open higher education is being developed. It serves people who are unemployed or laid off. The time when there is no work is worth using for self-development and study, and this too is becoming funded through continuous learning: EUR 20 million will be allocated to fast-acting competence development activities for working-age people and the development of a digital digital learning service package for continuous learning. It is important that we remember that, before the interest rate, we had a shortage of labour and skills in many sectors, and that is also the case after the interest rate. That is why this time, when not everyone has a job, must be used to provide conversion training, specific training for jobs and tasks that we will be able to offer in the future. These are clear measures to promote employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u209	Mr President! The expenditure of this government's fourth amending budget is largely to be welcomed, and I hope that this is gradually being understood. But a better future for Finns cannot be based only on the art of spending public money. The future of Finland will not end tomorrow or at the end of the parliamentary term. We need to be able to build a better Finland for a long time. Korona or not, Finland’s enormous challenges for the future, such as the ageing of the population, have not changed anything. Therefore, even in times of distress, the courageous decision-maker sees the possibility of developing and not living in the strangling embrace of socialism, waiting for a miracle. Mr President! Already today, Finland is a country of high taxation and a country of rigid labour markets. The lack of government in employment reform will only make it worse. Good government, you are in left-wing economics, where money is well-used, but it can only be collected by raising taxes. The chances of such an ordinary hardworking person saving himself for the future of his family are almost nonexistent. I do not think it is a sign of a fair society and a society that looks to the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u210	President! The proposal for a fourth amending budget is exceptionally large. The purpose of the amending budget is to revitalise the economy throughout the country and to ensure vitality and integrity throughout society. Recovery measures shall be rapid, temporary and non-recurring at this point. A good example of these effective recovery measures is these numerous road and bus projects across Finland. This money has been enjoyed all over Finland, including in Southern Ostrobothnia. They are music for Finland in the regions and show that the government is serious about supporting Finland as a whole, thus making a concrete policy of vitality, in which the focus is not just on the capital region but extends to all parts of Finland. Another major contribution to the future is the strong additions to the starting positions of universities mentioned by Mr Kinnusen. It is once again a concrete culture policy. More and more new students will receive a study place, i.e. the route to a meaningful life, to strengthen the route's knowledge, to the future of the route. In the longer term, this investment responds to the need to raise the Finnish level of competence. It is a very bright-eyed policy that we need at this point. President! Interest restrictions have had unfortunate negative effects on learning outcomes, leisure opportunities, well-being and equality for children and young people. To improve the situation, this amending budget includes a welfare package of some EUR 320 million for children and young people. It is an act for the future of children and young people. President! The central government will contribute EUR 1.4 billion to compensate municipalities for the income losses and expenditure increases resulting from the interest rate. This means the provision of basic services, i.e. early childhood education, day care centres, schools and social and health care services, which live in municipalities. The municipality of residence, its own city, is a unit the size of a person in which well-being is made. President! After the recovery, it is particularly important that the government prepares a road map as soon as possible in which we strengthen the economy to safeguard the welfare society. Now we eat more than we make. We are right to do so, but in the long term it is not sustainable. The structural reforms and measures to support employment mentioned here are particularly relevant. I think we can do that too. We need diligence, the vigour of working, but also decision-making the size of a person, in which everyone is involved. We're gonna get through this, too. We need each other, such tenacity, determination and tenacity in the reconstruction of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u211	Mr President! The theme of this amending budget is to combat the human and economic consequences of the corona crisis while at the same time promoting the transition towards a zero-emission society. This is very important. We all know that, despite the corona crisis, we are still facing a climate crisis. The economy must be revived in a way that at the same time supports the Government's goal of making Finland the first carbon-neutral welfare state in the world. Well, it was wondered by the people of Peru that such a forerunner has no value or benefit, but I personally see that, first of all, although it is right to act ambitiously to combat the climate crisis, if you want to think selfishly, you can also think that these climate solutions and their foresight also give Finland an advantage, bring Finland work and support our exports, which is also in our interests. It is therefore very important to monitor how this climate recovery is progressing, and this large additional budget is, of course, an important part of it. From the point of view of climate action, the focus of this amending budget is, in particular, on investments in reducing emissions in transport and heating, for which I thank you. And the big investment is also EUR 300 million in this climate fund under Vake, which aims to focus on the fight against climate change by providing financial support for various climate projects. At this point, it is important to ensure that these millions are directed in the most effective way, then to ecological reconstruction. For my part, I would like to send an important message to the government here, which is that I believe that this support must only be given to projects that are ambitious in their climate objectives and that meet the criteria for a priori rigorous assessment of climate impacts. So here is the concern as to whether or not this money will then be directed towards such comprehensively sustainable projects. Mr President! Consistency with climate action is very important. It cannot be that, on the one hand, climate measures are supported but, on the other hand, measures are taken to slow down emissions reductions. In this acute situation, all action must be directed towards the same goal, and I can see that there is a climate-proof welfare society where people are well and inequality is decreasing. I see that this government will be able to do so if it so wishes and many important steps have been taken towards it. But it must also be said that much remains to be done to achieve this, and it is also true that action should be taken more quickly, especially with regard to climate change. For example, we should already have decisions in relation to subsidies to businesses that are harmful to peat and the environment. Moreover, I myself am now looking forward to this ecological tax reform. We know that climate change does not look at this exceptional situation, and we know how difficult it is to implement these emission reductions, even though we have such an exceptional situation. This additional budget contains concrete elements in terms of climate recovery, which I am very pleased about and I would like to thank you for, but at the same time I would also like to point out here that we still have a great deal to do. And on my own behalf, at least, I can say that the left has a desire and a readiness for an even higher level of ambition in terms of climate action, and I hope and assume that the government will then hopefully continue this work after the summer break.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u212	Mr President! It is a pity that Mrs Kausto left the Chamber — a very familiar debate at the time of this day, that there is an attack on the labour market, particularly in parallel with these employment measures. I believe that this year's fourth amending budget is a particularly good and comprehensive package of measures aimed at supporting recovery and employment and at launching development and growth in the future. Three or four months ago, no one in this Chamber probably believed what was going on and what the effects of this epidemic on the economy and employment are now, but I think that the government has responded well to this challenge with these amending budgets, the fourth and previous amending budgets. I also think that this is well suited to the big picture of the government's fiscal policy: although, of course, this is the main cause of the epidemic, the economy is being raved in a way that is in keeping with the economic situation, and that can now be compared to the economic situation. The fourth amending budget is important and in line with previous amending budgets, which have dealt with particularly acute crisis measures, targeted measures to combat the social crisis and strengthened local government finances and the economy and employment, both with additional funding for infrastructure, knowledge and education, and especially now with research and development efforts in this 4th chapter. Over two billion have already been invested in the survival of businesses in the supplementary budgets, and a number of measures have been agreed in cooperation with the social partners, thanks to the fact that they have been able to provide temporary support for the situation of employers and workers during the epidemic. After all, a large number of these activities will continue until the end of this year. In this budget, there is already a question of whether this is the fifth business finance package. Turnover-based cost support is an extremely important factor in promoting the survival and recovery of companies, and in particular in preventing redundancies for workers. Mr President! It is important that the amending budget also takes a small step forwards to the Government Programme, for example, the definition of carers, the strengthening of skills, additional training places, the strengthening of local vocational education and training, additional research efforts and transport investments from all over Finland, which are extremely important in regional policy. It is quite clear that Finland is in debt, but the options have been quite limited by the government, and all the measures we have taken to deal with the epidemic and to support employment and the economy have been quite justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u213	Madam President! We survived the first wave of corona together. After spring, the government will have the capacity to act quickly and effectively if the number of infections starts to increase again, but the most important thing now is to do everything possible to ensure that this does not happen. Effective testing and tracking are still key, the mobile application is to be made available after the summer. The amending budget currently under discussion provides for the purchase of a vaccine of EUR 110 million. Madam President! Our employment figures are still seriously affected by interest-bearing springs — which have been the subject of a lot of debate today. According to Statistics Finland, there were 96,000 fewer employed persons in May than one year ago. The employment and economic situation is undeniably worrying. Therefore, with this fourth amending budget, we will continue to pursue the post-emergency management of the corona crisis. In this amending budget, we are investing in children and young people. It is important that no child or young person is excluded from the Corona Crisis. A recent report by a working group set up by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health shows that the harmful effects of corona are accumulated and cumulative for the same children who are already facing challenges. The most vulnerable are children and young people whose families have been deprived of their livelihood by the crisis, children and young people with disabilities, long-term ills and those placed outside the home, and those whose families have mental health or substance abuse problems. According to the report, the number of home alarm visits has increased by 30 per cent from one year ago and the share of domestic violence in home alarms has increased by 14 per cent in March from the year before. A comprehensive plan is needed to ensure the well-being of children and young people and to promote their well-being after the crisis. We must ensure equality between children and young people. Madam President! We will have to fill the previous government's training cuts in a situation where education is perhaps more important than ever. By investing in education, we will be able to bring about the structural change that will lead us towards a carbon-neutral welfare society. The amending budget proposes EUR 124 million for a one-off increase in starting points for higher education institutions. The universities of applied sciences received a total of 2,200 more starting places and the universities had 2048 more starting places all over the country — the largest university in Helsinki received nearly 450 starting places. These are historical and important investments in the future of both young people and Finland as a whole. Madam President! With sustainable recovery, we are at the same time investing both in combating climate change and in improving employment. A study of the post-2008 economic crisis recovery showed that the money spent on green recovery created three times as many jobs as the tax euros invested in the fossil economy. This is exactly what the government is implementing with this amending budget. We invest in tracks, walking, cycling, energy renovations and the abandonment of oil heating. Recovery measures will also be targeted at the preservation of biodiversity and the rehabilitation of areas important to people on excursions and recreation. This, too, is an important future work. Madam President! Finally, I would like to highlight the crisis in the municipal economy. This year, an epidemic of interest rates will weaken the local government finances by more than EUR 1.8 billion and next year it is estimated that the total amount will be EUR 1.7 billion. The majority, or 1.4 billion, of the deterioration, is explained by the collapse of local government tax revenues. The assessment made by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities is based on the answers of the economic leaders of 65 large cities. Nearly 4 million people live in these cities, or 73% of our population. The municipal economic package that is now being adopted is very important for municipalities, but the situation needs to be closely monitored, and the necessary steps must be taken to return to it in the autumn budget debate. The ability of municipalities to take care of their residents and to provide them with services that are important to them we need to take care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u214	Mr President! As a result of the exceptional spring and summer, this is an amending budget of historic size. As the committee points out, the proposal is an appropriate whole and the recovery package included in it is a step in the right direction. It is wise to start resuscitation quickly. The resuscitation in this situation is like a good drink in the master's chamber to start a coughing machine. It is equally important to ensure that follow-up measures and decisions also keep that machine running. In the amending budget, starting places for higher education institutions will be increased on a one-off basis in both universities and universities of applied sciences. This will contribute to the balanced development of the country as a whole and will support the raising of skills in different regions of the country. The ideology of concentration of education is now changing direction towards the regions. The recovery package includes a number of transport network development projects with a total mandate of more than EUR 400 million. Basic bus maintenance is directed to the drawing of new asphalt in different parts of Finland. The road will be paved with about 5,000 kilometers this year. The Fund for the Development of Agriculture is capitalised on Makera by 70 million. This will ensure the continuity of investments that have a significant impact on the regional economy of agricultural holdings and will support food self-sufficiency and security of supply in the long term. Mr President! In committee, we were pleased that the government is now presenting a comprehensive package of measures of EUR 1.4 billion in support of local government finances. It includes a fixed-term increase in the central government share of basic municipal services, an increase in the discretionary central government share, a fixed-term increase in the municipal corporation tax share and a direct state grant to medical districts. In a difficult economic situation, this is a very important contribution to the agonizing local government economy. However, the difficult local government finances must continue to be supported in the context of future budgets. We must now have patience and wisdom at every level to make decisions so that, after the crisis, we return to the path of growth, high employment and sustainable public finances. It is therefore important to prepare a plan, the road map that Mr Kivisaari needs, which defines both structural reforms and measures to support employment. At the same time, care must be taken not to over-restrict economic room for manoeuvre and to make recovery more difficult by means of early adjustment measures. So we have to press both the gas and the brake at the same time, and that is a very specific task. But I'm sure we'll be able to handle that work together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u215	Mr President! This should probably be some kind of corona package, but much of these measures are not linked to the corona. ‘Walking not employed, but a kilometer factory is Debt, debt and yet more debt and not the means to repay it — it is represented by the government's estimates of revenue and expenditure and amending budgets. But fortunately, the great thinkers of the Left Alliance have come up with the idea that debt does not need to be repaid. Now that you figure out how those debts will become available, then the state finances will be in particularly good shape. The government says that this is not the time for spending cuts or employment measures. Well, it wasn't the time before the corona either. Even then, the government did not propose expenditure cuts or employment measures, even if both were necessary. Well, it was not the time in the previous upswing either, because the present political parties in the opposition were opposed to all kinds of spending cuts and employment measures and were the first to withdraw them when they reached this government. Even when it is not the time for their action in the uprising period, in what period does the time for their action come? The government maintains its ideological dogmas with debt money and does not care about purchasing power, competitiveness or exports, but puts climate action ahead of these issues. The city centre has been bought into this by some tens of millions of bridge drums. Hundreds of millions of dollars went cheaply into environmental funds. I therefore support the arguments and objections put forward by the Finns of Peru and, in particular, the motion of censure, because this game must be whistled out and the games must stop.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u216	Madam President! At first, it is good to remind you that we and Finland as a whole have a spring that has called for the use of the most powerful tools of the Finnish peacetime. The Act of Preparedness was introduced. With a heavy heart, we introduced a wide range of restrictive measures, which even went to fundamental rights. In schools, operating models were quickly changed, and families found new ways to communicate. Fortunately, thanks to these actions and the obedience and obedience and ingenuity of the Finns, the disease is now in good shape. But, unfortunately, this spring has left some marks, and they are now being corrected. The government's fourth amending budget is huge in scale and it is a genuine need. Korona has hit the whole of Finland hard. Recent employment statistics reveal a harsh language that thousands of Finns see the effects of the interest rate strongly in their own and family livelihoods. However, there have been no massive waves of bankruptcy, but there are still no safe waters in that respect either. Much depends on how the rest of the world survives the pandemic and how Finland continues after the acute crisis, and on how we support the fact that those who are now laid off do not become redundant and become unemployed but get back to work as soon as possible, and that is what this additional budget is all about. Madam President! This additional budget will help Finland return to the path of growth and support the vitality of Finland as a whole. The investments start with securing basic services that are essential to people's well-being and go all the way to cost support for companies and comprehensive bus projects, as has already been heard many times today. The amending budget includes a wise future policy, both by investing in the services of young people and by increasing the number of higher education places. Services for the elderly and support for informal care will also receive an important allocation of EUR 60 million. These are choices that help Finland get on its feet in a socially and regionally sustainable way. President! The most important task of the decisions now to be taken is to strengthen the confidence of households and businesses in the future. At the same time, a reconstruction phase must be set in motion in which genuine reform measures are undertaken in a way that is sustainable over a generation. Sustainable public finances will ensure investment opportunities and the development of services in the future. A fair path to sustainable public finances is not built on drastic cuts or tax increases. That is why, above all, we need reforms. The threshold for employment and employment still needs to be lowered, and productivity needs to be improved on both the public and the private side. We need to invest in digitalisation, innovation and exports. With the interest rate, many companies have come up with ideas and more intelligent ways to work and achieve results. We need more of this now, and we also need to encourage it. The path to reform is the road to growth and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u217	And now we move on to the three-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u218	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Den rekordstora tillaggsbudgeten på 5.5 milarder euro är nog den tillagsbudget som stödjer den enskilda pineniskan allra mest, och finländarnas vämmående, och vi ska ju komba ihåg — precis som har kommit upp här tidigare — att det rauh har berört väldigt många. Bland you give barnfabillionna har haft det valdigt tungt. Det har visat sig att just barnfabillionna som redan tidigare, innan coronan, har haft det tufft har fått det ännu värre, och därför glädjer det mig väldigt mycket att man via den rais tillagsbudgeten satsar en hel del på barn och barnfamiler, 320 million euros. Det gäller utbildning, socialskydd, hobbyn och så vidare — och det ger framtidstro.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u219	Mr President! The amending budget includes an investment of 60 million in income support for customers, the so-called epidemic allowance. The aim is to compensate the low-income ones at least for the increased costs they have had to live with in the interest spring. Thank you to the Government and the Minister for the Government's proposal, which was submitted a week or so ago, which has not yet been taken up in Parliament. We would have had time to pass the show before the summer break, and that was what the Left Alliance was driving. However, there was no desire to do this at the end of the House. The gentlemen are in a hurry and will probably end with the distribution of billions of business subsidies. People can wait until September at least. Of course, tax-free support of EUR 75 per person is significant and will, for example, be needed in many families of children starting their school. However, in this government proposal there is one major drain defect that Parliament must definitely correct. A large number of elderly people with multiple illnesses and disabilities are threatened with being excluded from compensation. This also applies to a large proportion of family carers' households. These groups have been customers of income support during the spring, receiving support for medicines and medical expenses, among other things. However, the need for support could have been exhausted by autumn when the responsibilities have been met. This group has been most affected by the virus and the isolation policy of the sick and elderly. They wouldn't get anything with this performance. The second group of interlocutors in this proposal are those income support customers who receive a tax refund from August — quite a few can receive a tax refund. The tax refund will be inflated to income support calculations for several months and the right to income support and this epidemic allowance will therefore not be created. Mr President! The proposal must be corrected in Parliament so that the groups I have mentioned can also receive an epidemic allowance in one form or another. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u220	Madam President! This amending budget, as many have said, contains a lot of good appropriations and proposals, and the overall situation is so difficult that it is necessary to invest in many ways in the problems that society is facing in this particular situation. However, this is a historicly large additional budget, and it means that when there is no income, the debt must cover everything. This recent debate on sovereign debt is a serious matter. It has been used a little too light in public, even by representatives. We must always be careful and precise about borrowing, and above all we must use the funds that are taken as a common debt. That is why, for example, this EU fund must be condemned. That's where we're not supposed to send our debt money to Southern Europe. The big question and issue in this additional budget is the municipal economy. According to the municipal union's calculations, this year's interest rate will create a gap of 1.8 billion and next year 1.7 billion in revenue losses and expenditure growth in the local government economy. The government has included 1.4 billion in this additional budget for municipalities. It won't be enough. In Jyväskylä, for example, according to the calculation, the losses, the gap in the city's economy, are just under EUR 50 million this year and the government will receive EUR 23 million, or half. We must now strongly appeal to the government not only to ensure that all other measures to facilitate local government finances — the revision of the legal base and so on, the reduction of obligations — are necessary, but also to ensure that at least another package is needed this year to ensure that the municipalities will not have to make huge increases in income tax next autumn. Increasing taxation in municipalities will hit employment, business activity, people's purchasing power, and thus turn the economy into a loss in the same way as in all taxation. In other words, I strongly urge that the local government finances situation will continue to be on the government's list.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u221	Madam President! The opposition has given a lot of criticism to this amending budget. Among other things, it has been said to be aimless. However, there is a clear goal in the city centre, as is the case with the whole government. The aim is to increase the well-being of Finns, strengthen their livelihoods and ensure the sustainability of public finances and, above all, the environment. The way in which this can be achieved is through the reform of society. The Centre is prepared to undertake even bold reforms to minimise the need for painful cuts and economic tax increases. The reforms keep Finland alive now and in the future. The government as a whole also assumes that structural reforms will primarily be carried out, and these structural reforms will include a number of issues, in particular employment measures, curbing expenditure growth, and of course the most important one will be social reform. It will also increase the productivity of public services. In the future, wage moderation and other measures to increase the competitiveness of Finnish work will also be essential. The government noted that creating new jobs was all the more important. As part of the sustainability road map, the Government commits itself to setting a new employment target in the autumn budget debate, which is higher than the original 60,000. Madam President! There is no doubt that the government intends to raise the level of ambition. This is necessary because employment measures have a significant potential for a permanent reduction of the sustainability gap.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u222	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kangas for taking the floor so that I could make my own speech here in the Chamber. Came unsolicited and unexpectedly at this speed. Mr President! We've been having a very good conversation here all day. The opposition's direction has become critical of not going into the future and this amending budget will not create a basis for the future. But, ladies and gentlemen, 4800 higher education places, starting places, extra seats. It is an important contribution to the future of knowledge in this country. As we go up from here, we need those experts, and I thank the government for the fact that the flag of civilisation and progress in this fourth amending budget has been sore. Mr President! The reason why I wanted to come to this Chamber to speak: Representative Kivela’s credit for bringing up this climate fund and its capitalisation for EUR 300 million. You pointed that out and hoped that these millions would be directed towards ecologically ambitious climate targets, and I wanted to come here and bring them to good goals. I have been thinking a great deal about the last time, for example, during Question Time, investments in pulp mills were brought up and only one investment that is coming in the future, that is to say this bioproduct plant in Kemi. It must be remembered that in the provinces of Kainuu Paltamo KaiCell Fibers, in Eastern Lapland, the Boreal Bioref of Kemijärvi, there are potential targets that we can use to bring this sustainable climate work forward. I would like the fibre tree, which is growing in those provinces, to be further processed as close as possible, and all these future factory projects should be on the same line and therefore ensure that this carbon footprint is as short as possible, so to speak. Mr President! That is precisely why I wanted to point out, because these are the export drivers, which will give us more revenue for this economy through the export industry, and through that, Mr Kankaanniemi, this will ensure that money comes into the treasury of the state, and hence that local government economies will also benefit from tax revenue as well as other additional benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u223	Mr President! Thank you, Mr. Kettunen. It was, of course, a pleasure for me to be able to help you with this, and you made some important comments. The places of study you mentioned are a very good investment in the future, for which I thank you. But those employment measures are still screaming and waiting for their turn. Where are they? The government has been sitting for a year and there have been no positive measures. More of them have been there for the worse. This situation, which is what is happening now, is that the crisis caused by the interest rate should inspire the government strongly to increase its investment in employment specifically in the whole country, but it will not happen, will not, will not show up. Why? That's what I'm calling for. Then the second question is that, for example, the government seems ready to spend billions of money on that EU recovery fund. It is expected in the provinces, in the Finnish provinces, in companies where they are created, whether they are green or red jobs, but they are productive jobs, and in the private sector in particular. In order for them to be born, labour market reforms must also be carried out, and a small word of warning must be said to the centre: in the government where you are currently sitting, labour market reforms will not be achieved. There are a lot of brakemen, and women above all, smart people, but the ideology is bound. Let it go and make the reforms that need to be done now. I agree that improving the conditions for the export industry — for example, this is the most valuable resource we have, the exploitation of wood, and hence the income from exports — is a key issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u226	Mr President! Now that such an opportunity has been opened to comment — the list really went rather quickly — I will take another floor. I think it is wonderful that Mr Kettunen raised this climate fund under Vake, or he would comment on it when I raised it myself. As I said, when we look at the EUR 300 million, it is, in a way, difficult to determine at this stage whether this is a significant, large and good contribution to climate action, because there is still this uncertainty as to how this money will be allocated, what kind of projects. Of course, I do, and I hope that we can proudly say here that this is now a very important contribution to this amending budget. But what really worries us here is that we must ensure that these climate measures are also genuinely sustainable. So we are concerned, for example, with these bioeconomy projects. This is not my criticism, but it is a widely shared criticism in the Finnish debate by various experts and environmental organisations, for example. In other words, there is concern that if the government supports a range of environmentally harmful projects, and especially if it does so in the name of climate action, then it is in no way acceptable. For example, the Hetemäe working group made it clear to me that ‘a major project supporting employment would not have significant negative effects on the climate,the use of natural resources or the diversity of nature’. I share this idea in this state of the world, and, for example, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has also spoken in this direction, which even has a centre-president and where we have been led forward by the composition of the government. It is very important that we find a consensus that we are actually taking effective action on climate change, and I believe that, after all, it is in the interests of all of us. Even if we have different views here today, in the final games this is our common goal, and the government is, of course, committed to this, as we well know, through the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u227	Madam President! Representative Kivelä, worry about it — representative Kivelä, worry about it. First of all, these bioproduct plants will have a job-creating effect at the time they are being built. Of course, today this kind of factory does not necessarily employ thousands of people, just a factory — direct jobs will be several hundred jobs — but then indirectly thousands of jobs will be spoken of. And the reason why I want to bring this up quite strongly is because these bio-products are part of the solution to the question of how to move from a fossil economy to a bio-economy. We have seen from a country such as Norway the wealth these fossil products have brought, and we are going to see these bioproducts bring us prosperity. In the future, these pulp mills will not only make the so-called bulk pulp, but we will go to the products of higher processing, we will go to the solubilisation site, for example, what is produced today in the Enocell Swimming Harju in North Karelia. In the future, I will — and we will — see that products such as nanocell and microcells are going to be replaced even by steel at some point if Finnish innovation, research and development activities are given funding and new openings. Mr Kankaanniemi, the provinces today thank the government for the fact that funding is available for a wide range of projects, particularly for infrastructure projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u230	Madam President! Mr Kettunen spoke wisely, and in the same spirit I thought I would continue, perhaps with some enthusiasm from Mr Kankaanniemi. You said in the past that employment measures have not been seen or taken at all. I would like to reiterate that a great many of the measures already taken in this amending budget — investment in education, research, transport projects, in the broader sense of infrastructure — also serve employment, growth and employment. And, of course, I dare say that the massive support for companies that have been made during the corona crisis has also been done — not for no reason at all, but for keeping to jobs as well as possible. In other words, these measures have also been supportive of employment and growth. But then, from this export industry, I would like to add that Finland is living from foreign trade and that will certainly be the case in the future, and I believe that it will also require a common European coordinated recovery solution. It is therefore important that the Finnish Government now actively negotiates that too. I myself had the opportunity to look at the Commission's assessment of what would happen to the various EU countries if this recession were prolonged, deepened and ended up in such a more difficult recession, and, unfortunately, it would appear that Finland would be a strong living country in this kind of foreign trade among the countries most affected if such a recession were to continue and deepen. That is why it is important for Europe, the European Union and its Member States to be able to find a sustainable, common, coordinated way to revive and return to the path of growth and employment. The climate fund and, could you say, sustainable new solutions have already been discussed wisely here. Perhaps I will not go further into it at this stage, but I will just say that Finland has already done a good job in this regard before, and we should also continue on this path of sustainable growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u231	Mr President! Apparently, he's a representative. The Kankaanniemi inspired many of us to speak with a surprising speech. In that debate I have already commented on these employment effects and, as has been said, there are a lot of things in this amending budget that have a specific leverage effect on employment, i.e. creating the permanent jobs that come to businesses and then employ them over a long period of time in the whole of Finland. There were, among other things, a number of projects in connection with this infrastructure, and I personally find it strange that the infraa has now been underestimated and said that it is a bridge drum policy — or it is said that it is a policy. How can infra be politics, if you think that 5,000 kilometres of Finnish roads are paved, twice Finland from end to end is paved? Or what is the policy of building infraa just there for forest industry projects, of getting that tree from the stump to the industry — at best even turning it into cloth, as it was said here, that not all wood is really put into any oven or chipping. Infra is needed precisely to get the milk and ore and the tree on the road there. I find it extremely despicable to politicize it. There was Mackera’s funding — everyone who understands the forest knows how important Makera is. There was capitalization for Finnish Malmi Processing. There's a lot of talk that electric cars are the future, but when they want to use batteries and the batteries' minerals are underground there. We need a mining industry for that. All in all, there has been such a feeling here in the last few days that they want to ignore all that good and then dig up some flaws or speculate on the fact that wrong decisions have been made. Then, if we are talking about this bioeconomy, it was said here that it might not be such a sustainable thing, but I totally disagree with that myself. Of course, it may also seem that I am a forestry engineer by my own training and have my bread from those forests, but I also come from the forest region of North Karelia, which is well-known for its education, expertise and overall forest cluster. North Karelia was now elected Finland's fifth Hinku province this week, which means that we have worked in the 21st century to get the municipalities to work together and have got our carbon footprint down in North Karelia. In my opinion, it shows very well that these are by no means mutually exclusive. The fact that there is a forest industry and that we want to work for the forests of the future is not out of the question if we want carbon neutrality as well. We have very high targets in our own region, and we have done them well. I can give an example of this from my own home town Outokumpu that we used to have this sort of Miilu power plant, which used fuel oil, and when the decision was made that the Miilu moved from fuel oil to wood chips, in the Outokumpu area 60 per cent of the emissions were reduced by that one decision. Decisions take place in municipalities, they take place in provinces, and these municipal decisions can have a really big overall meaning
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u232	Madam President! This debate on the amending budget has been interesting and I would nevertheless like to see the facts recognised. Let us take energy first, when there is money here to improve roads, to improve the railways. Just as Mr Huttunen well said in his speech, all these appropriations, which have been invested there, certainly serve the Finnish economy. The talk that Finnish logging would destroy diversity or would be the destruction of forests: Look at Germany, my friends. Why, for example, is it constantly polarized within the government party? The situation in Finnish forests is better than ever in Finnish history. In Germany, perhaps the ideal state of some representative, the old forests have been abandoned and never managed. What happened to them last summer? Eighty million mots of forests died. That's what diversity is? Or the seedlings, who have been extremely high - density, have been untreated for decades. They died of fungal diseases, too. This is the diversity? If we really want to deal with climate change and stop talking about it, then we have to keep the forests in order, because according to the studies – not according to any undisputed studies, according to any of the placebo studies, what Sitra is doing, for example, has now released the full amount of government money about peat – if we really believe in research, well-managed healthy forests will also withstand climate change. According to the German model, the old forest, the untreated forest, cannot withstand climate change. Is this what we want? Last year, Finland's forest felling amounted to well 70 million mots, this year remaining at some 65. We have almost the same harvest savings this year as we are being beaten up, which is about half and half. So we're in no danger. If we want to replace fossil energy with renewable energy, we have to take care of forests, burn peat in them. Think at the moment of the real threat to the Finnish economy: this policy, which drives down peat with all the means at its disposal. See if you can get a look at the customs statistics. If, for example, Mr Kivel does not believe me, then please dig up the customs statistics. What is the replacement of Finnish peat? Finnish fibrewood, which was burned last winter with millions of cubes. There's going to be a tree shop going fast. The power plants buy fiber wood, which is taken directly to neither the pulp mill nor the sawmill, but goes into combustion. In other words, what is happening here is expressly prohibited in the government programme that no valuable wood is to be burned. Why don't we get this over with? And another thing. All the peat that is left unused in Finland is replaced by wood chips from Russia. I ask you, honourable Members: how many of you want Finland's energy policy to take the enormous risk of external energy? 80% of energy already comes from abroad. If we run out of Russian chippings when there's a problem, what's gonna happen to us? Think about what you're saying, my friends. That climate change can't just be nonsense, it has to be a fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u233	Madam President! First of all, thank Mr Hoskose for his excellent speech. I'd rather use that tree and process it as hard as possible than burn it. But these employment objectives. From the point of view of the opposition, Mr Kangasniemi asked what had been achieved. I see it as significant that the regional employment experiment is starting. Regional employment experiment. Mr Kankaanniemi, it has been pointed out from the point of view of the opposition that this only increases the burden on public finances. I see it a little differently. I come from Kainuu and Kuhmo, and we have had long-term employment pilot projects in the municipality since 2013. And this one's been employed. It is always said that this is a trick job and is only employed in small associations/public sector,but we still have about 40% of those employed in the community experiment have been employed in private companies and I think it is time-important. And this is something that needs to be developed. But then, when we go back to the provinces — like this representative Huttunen pointed out the bioeconomy, forestry — there is geoeconomy, indeed ore processing, there is agriculture that keeps this country on track and moves forward. Yes, these times of crisis show that Finland too must promote and ensure that domestic food production is on its feet even during the crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u234	Madam President! I admit that all the appropriations are employed — some of the officials, and certainly the Ähtäri pandas are employing something, and can therefore be called upon to employ the entire additional budget. But does it employ permanent private-sector productive jobs? Public sector is needed because private does not play if there are no good services and systems playing. But our competitiveness depends on it now, and in the future even more on how our private sector is doing in competition, in fierce competition, and that is what I am worried about. Some employment experiment is not enough on its own. Fair labour market reforms are needed. They should be done in three or preferably four-armed ways, so that the entrepreneurs are also involved, and in a government-driven way that they will also be carried out to the end. Unfortunately, however, when there seems to be no results, I have intervened very strongly here. In other words, I expect that the centre in particular will adhere to the development of working life. Another factor for the economy, which is not committed to the budget, is of course taxation. In other words, shifting the focus of taxation so as to reduce taxation on work and enterprise, thereby making it more viable for businesses and more tax revenues. We've been talking about a climate fund. At least it is very unclear to me what it will really be used for. It is an extremely important question that it does not do anything but really serious work for the good of Finnish industry. It is a risk similar to that of the EU's recovery fund, which you dare not talk about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u237	Madam President! Where a representative: The Kankaanniemi called on me to take a stand on this European Union recovery fund, and I will take it now. I have said it many times, but I will say it again: I have not heard anything more absurd than it is. It doesn't have a head or a tail. Firstly, it violates the Treaties of the European Union, which Finland has accepted under the name of the Treaty of Lisbon. It is precisely in breach of its Treaty of Accession. It violates the European Union's own rules. And then, on top of that, it is completely absurd economically if we are to have to pay about EUR 12 billion in these prospects and get EUR 5 billion out of it. I very much hope, Madam President, that this kind of economic thinking will not spread in Finland. It doesn't have a head or a tail to pay 12 billion and get five of them back. However, when today's credit rating in Finland is so good that we even get a minus-rate direct loan from the world's financial markets, what guarantee would we have of a financial system that is completely absurd and then take a huge risk of what happens to the European Union or the euro? If the euro is harmed and if we are committed to that system by that means, it can have enormous economic consequences, the size of which we cannot imagine today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u242	Madam President! The big picture we need to take into account here all the time, whether we like it or not, is that, in addition to climate change, we have this sixth wave of extinction, that is, the loss of biodiversity, which I am at least really concerned about, and I believe that many of you are actually concerned, because I believe that you have not been able to avoid this news about the serious threat that is at stake here. I have also heard, for example, the Chairman of the Climate Panel that this may be even more difficult to resolve, because, in the context of the climate crisis, it is still easier for us to calculate those steps in a certain way, but with regard to the loss of biodiversity, we may find ourselves in a situation where there is simply no return and that international governance is more difficult. So this is the big picture. As far as the bioeconomy is concerned, it is quite clear that we must honestly admit that not all bioeconomy is sustainable, whether in Finland or elsewhere. Of course, we all want it to be sustainable, and it is quite clear, for example with regard to carbon sinks, that the larger the fellings we have, the smaller the carbon sinks we have. Then there is this decline in forest biodiversity, so these are not things that we can just ignore because they are difficult or unpleasant, but we have been discussing them for weeks at the Säätytalo when we have signed up for the government programme, and we all know that the main objectives of this government are to prevent the climate crisis and the loss of biodiversity, which is what we are committed to. Now to this peat. It is quite clear that the government will not achieve its climate objective if this matter of peat is not dealt with, as we all know. In other words, when we have this objective of carbon neutrality in 2035, we will in practice abandon this objective if we exclude peat from this review. At least I don't think of Sitra as a hoot. I appreciate them as experts, and they have presented alternatives to peat. Of course, this is not an easy thing either, but these are the things that we have to do here, and I support these solutions in which we change our regions to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u243	Madam President! This debate is interestingly going from one policy area to another, and that is a good thing. I would like to return to the European recovery instrument and its necessity. Yes, I want to defend it and I see it as absolutely necessary, not because it is an end in itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u246	Mr President! A little earlier, the EU Recovery Fund was discussed here, and I myself thought to say a few words about it. President! The EU Recovery Instrument and the increased financial framework total approximately EUR 1900 billion. The recovery instrument accounts for 750 billion of this for grants and guarantees of EUR 500 billion and for a loan of EUR 250 billion. Finland's overall responsibility for the Recovery Facility would be around EUR 13 billion increased by interest and expenses. A net loss for Finland would amount to EUR 4-5 billion in grants. Together with past responsibilities related to the interest rate crisis and liabilities arising from the financial and euro crises, risks becoming too high for Finland’s public finances. The financing of the recovery instrument by means of loans from the Commission and their repayment between 2028 and 2058 by means of increased EU membership fees and possible new own resources, as is the case, will lead to a 'fiscal union', i.e. intra-Union transfers and tax law. At the very least, as Mr Hoskonen has said before, Finland's budgetary sovereignty and strengthens federal development is not in the interests of a small EU Member State such as Finland, and it is clearly contrary to the Constitution as far as budgetary sovereignty is concerned, its weakening and export from Finland is concerned. The allocation of funding to EU countries is also still unclear in this package. The major EU Member States, such as Germany and France, also have the greatest say in the allocation of funding. The allocation of funding according to the interests of these countries to the so-called cohesion countries in Eastern and Southern Europe does not guarantee the claimed benefits for Finnish industry and exports. I don't understand how this could even happen. I therefore hope that the government will have the courage at EU level to reject this recovery instrument and, at the latest, when the matter is brought to this Chamber for Parliament to decide, Parliament will be able to put a stop to it. This is a very, very worrying development. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u247	Madam President! Thank you, Mrs Herbtiaho, for the good analysis she witnessed in that speech, that is, the illegality of the means of recovery. It is quite clearly unconstitutional, and anyone who does not believe my speech should refer to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 16/2020, which the committee adopted here a couple of weeks ago. Read the pomps out there. They're so clear, they're not hard when I understand them. Very easy. It says that Finland should not agree or promote an arrangement in which we commit ourselves to either loans or grants. It's quite clear in Finnish. I do not understand what it is so difficult to understand when it is a fundamental right — in Finland it is worth remembering that the Constitutional Committee is the only instance in this country that interprets the Finnish Constitution. This is not done by the European Union, nor by the Finnish Government, but by the Constitutional Committee elected by the Finnish Parliament. This is a fact, and anyone who insists otherwise will have their speech proved true. As far as peat is concerned, so much that this current calculation, supported by Sitra, is based on an entirely childish idea: when the peat ceases to be used, nothing will be replaced. With what, then, do we heat the homes, schools, hospitals, the Parliament House and many more? Over the decades, we have built the entire district heating system in Finland, which in real terms, if it were to be built up, will be in tens of billions. How a representative So the stone is going to heat up the steam in the district heating pipes? It cannot be filled with wind power, as Sitra suggests that wind power will increase. What on earth is wind power made into district heat? You are obviously making history, some revolutionary invention that, according to the laws of physics, turns wind power into district heat. That's impossible. This already shows that Sitra’s research is simply hilarious, as is their claim that peat will be used in 2035 and there are 100,000 hectares of peat in Finland. None of that information is true. How can you stand up for a research that is based on nothing but a flutter? All I ask is, how can Sitra’s Director General Jyrki Katainen do this to go ahead and accept the funding of such research? I can't believe it. And finally, Mr President, the forest issue is so much so that if you look at the great backbone of Finland's current economy, it really is Finland's forests, because it is built by the forest industry and it is built very much by the metal industry. Mr Yrttiaho is probably a much better expert on this issue than I am on the metal industry, but all construction is largely based on the fact that the forest industry works. There's paper machines, there's forest machines, there's wood handling equipment. For example, the new saw that Kuhmo Oy will build in Kuhmo, the new sawline and the new planer line, all equipment is domestic work, the Finnish metal industry,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u252	Madam President! A fourth amending budget of 5.5 billion — public finances must be balanced over the coming years, preferably over a decade. One thing that will give us additional money for the economy, as has already been mentioned in the speeches, is the export industry. As Mr Hoskonen has done well to highlight the sawmill industry, the climate-wise sawmill industry offers solutions for this low carbon society. Oh, yeah, I'm from Kuhmo. Kuhmo Oy saw takes its raw material, sawn timber, 75 km radius, only 75 km radius, and the carbon footprint has been minimized. And if you look at the figures that the sawmill industry has given, the whole production of the sawmill industry, from Finland to exports, then the turnover is 4 billion, the value of exports is nearly 2 billion. This is the kind of industry that needs to be promoted. In terms of the impact on employment, there are 5,900 person-years. These are the things that are raising this economy and this country upwards. And this is just the sawmill industry. But when you go to that part of the chemical industry, which has also been mentioned in this Chamber today, this Kemi bioproduct plant, I would like to remind you that there is still a factory investment in Kainuu, a long environmental impact assessment in Kemijärvi, Boreal Bioref. These are the export drivers that will boost its employment. As Mr Hoskonen pointed out, factories are a major source of employment in the Finnish metal industry and construction. And when these industrial plants are close to raw material reserves, then the climate will also thank you. It would be quite unreasonable if the Kainuu fiberwood were driven to Kemi or Äänekoski, in the direction of Mrs Kankaanniemi. It's too far for the roughwood.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u255	Madam President! The interest crisis has been a sustainability exercise for new generations who have not experienced war and post-war reconstruction of the country. The crisis has shown us the importance of education, security of supply, self-sufficiency and domestic food and the appreciation of rural areas. As Mr Kettunen described well, in the longer term, our economy must be balanced while we are still dealing with the crisis, reviving and carrying out structural reforms. We cannot live permanently at the expense of future generations and shift taxation to the burden of our children and their children. We have to look further, over generations. When we solve the crisis, the economy must be corrected at the same time. That is what we need employment measures for. As an important measure in terms of employment, I consider the reform of continuous learning, which also contributes to solving the situation we had before the corona, i.e. not all jobs had experts, applicants. Now that not everyone has a job, it is important to use this time to study, and this is also helped by getting these new starting places for higher education. New jobs will be created in areas where a higher education degree is needed, and it is therefore important that we have start-up places and that they focus, among other things, on the area of new technologies, so that we can create new innovations and new openings with those skilled factors. In this context of continuous learning, the Ministry of Education and Culture has launched projects to help people develop their own skills and improve the availability of this skilled workforce and at the same time support employment. There is a shortage of special teachers, for example, who are being re-educated at the Kokkola University Centre in Chydenius. Teachers in early childhood education need to be trained in the field The University of Oulu begins to lead. Oulu also develops a regional knowledge ecosystem and Kajaani develops continuous learning on the basis of the principle of a one-stop shop. Such openings and projects are needed to get everyone to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u256	Mr President! Of course, this EU recovery package does not per se involve this additional budget, but I would like to say that I would like to thank Mr Yrttiaho and Mr Hoskone for their clear position on how problematic and, frankly, absurd the issue is for Finland. It is a system that is contrary to the EU Treaty and the Finnish Constitution, and it is nowhere to go, but let us see how the government is doing on this issue. It takes more money from Finland than this additional budget is, in other words, a big issue. To this end, unfortunately Mr Kalli was already in the opposite direction on this issue of the EU recovery package, and perhaps he was just informed. Mr President! As far as these other issues on the table are concerned, of course, this peat has been discussed a lot, and I admit that peat is problematic in many ways. There are emissions, and on the other hand, we have at least had water problems in the Saarijärvi region in the past, for example. Now they have largely been managed in such a way that the worst is no longer the case. But replacing peat in a domestic, independent way with imports is certainly problematic and inevitably costly. Among other things, this issue of dependence on Russia is a direct threat. I therefore believe that the government should at least review and give in to this timetable in the interests of Finland and the people and of these cities, which are still in this peat. There is no point in starting to burn housewood in these heating plants. Mr President! Then this issue of working life. Mr Kalli thanked me for representing the right line as such, but the fact that I was a rarity among the Finns in this respect is not at all true. The Finns Party is the warmest supporter of Finnish entrepreneurs. We appreciate that entrepreneurship and we want to improve its conditions. And if the entrepreneur succeeds personally at the same time, it is our common interest. He pays his taxes and benefits society. In this respect, we need entrepreneurs, we need employers, we need tax revenues, we need funding for the needs of society, and now there are increasing needs. This challenge we face is very big: how
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u257	Madam President! The contributions made here in the amending budget are in many respects good, including on children, young people, families, starting points, routes, regional investments. As mentioned above by the representative, these include early childhood education in Oulu and other places of starting in areas where there is a shortage of experts and future factors. But it is also regrettable that the total compensation was around EUR 6000 per starting point and some of the training is more expensive, and certainly many universities will come to the point of wondering whether they can invest in precisely those training paths where there is a shortage of experts. But in order for all these actions in the record-breaking spring amending budget to be affected and to actually become the jobs that are needed, we need the employment reforms. The Coalition Party wants to preserve, as I believe the whole Chamber wants to maintain, the services and conditions of the welfare society that support the development in which Finland is also. Our people think we're the happiest people in the world. Only a sustainable and responsible economic policy will ensure this. As Outi Ojala once said, strong state finances are the best friend of the poor.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u260	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank you for this good debate. In this respect, these changes in working life have been highlighted. They are important and must be taken forward, but they have also been backed up by the opposition as to what the impact on employment will then be by the government. This amending budget will also bring these effects on employment: EUR 150 million is proposed for the purpose of establishing the balance sheet of Suomen Malmikone Oy and a mandate of EUR 300 million for the development of a battery cluster. This is one of the new innovations of the future, and, best of all, these battery chemicals will also be mined in Finland and, incidentally, from my own province of Kainuu. This is also the global climate-friendliness and friendship in all its dimensions. But this employment effect: it is estimated that up to 4500 person-years of work in this sector, 4500 person-years during construction and existence, 4500, and this is only one aspect of this geopolitical area.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u261	Madam President! I think it is only fair to admit that the big change we are facing is not easy. For example, I am not prepared to say that no job in this change would disappear or be threatened because we have to take strong climate action. I don't think it's honest. So this is hard. We do not have all the final solutions, and, for example, in my own hometown we have a million euros competition for who brings them, how the capital can warm up without coal and as little biomass as possible. I have been very pleased that we have a very broad consensus that it is understood that the solution to district heat is not to move to wood burning because it simply is not sustainable. Then, at the same time, it must be remembered that the option — that we do not act — is even worse, and that is why it is worth taking the position that the facts are accepted. We know that this change is coming, and then we will create new jobs there, which will at the same time support that transition. We train people, we retrain, and we transform our society so that we can overcome these big challenges. At the same time, it is good to remember that we are not alone in this. The EU as a whole is faced with these big questions. We now have huge cash flows on the move to make this change happen, and we could put even more stakes in directing money flows to ensure that this change takes place as sustainably as possible. What I believe to be the key issue here, which I do not know has yet come up in this debate, is that this transition must be fair. I am sure that this is a concept familiar to everyone in this Chamber, this fair transition, but I believe that it should be kept in it all the time. For example, I see that when it comes to the forestry sector or agriculture, it would be good for me to see the attitude that we can see in the future — even though forest owners are called ‘carbon sink farmers’ and they are rewarded for the fact that the cutting cycles are the subject of carbon crop piloting — a change of thought in this way,which is certain that the government will be able to find joint composition.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u262	Mr President! As Mr Kivelä has just said, it is clear that in this decade we need that fair reform and that it is the green one, whether it is tax reform or other reform. There is also a need for this to be particularly encouraging. And why is it especially necessary to be fair? Because, in the end, the states make only the frame, but people and businesses make decisions within them, and if not everyone feels that they are involved and are able to influence it, then there will also be no impact. Mr President! Indeed, there are investments in companies and also in the export side in the amending budget. This also includes this cost support for companies, estimated at around EUR 300 million, and in that sense it is important to be able to invest and think about creating that hope for the future. As important as the recovery of our services sector from this very exceptional spring is also the recovery of exports. Finland and the Finns live on exports, and it is equally important to us, too, that the European market should be pulled off, because if we are to think that, now, with these many measures, we have put the wheels of the economy on our side of the service sector and replaced the losses in which the turnover has fallen by 80, 90, even 100 %, then the prosperity will be created by the fact that we can also make the export wheels spin, and it is important that jobs are maintained and then maintained. - Thank you. I got a little confused at the end because some black guy flew out of here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u265	Madam President! The debate has been a long one today. I myself expected that this would also be the case with these employment measures. Markus Salmon, the city centre, an experienced parliamentarian and a long-term influencer, described the activities of Sanna Marin’s left-wing government, where the centre is a finance minister’s party: ‘It’s as if I had been shopping with a credit card. Everything good and necessary came in handy. However, the bill will follow with certainty.” We specifically targeted our biggest criticism in this situation at the fact that this government was unable to decide on any measures to improve the employment rate. Yes, there are projects — a road or some other construction project — and of course it brings work for a while, but no employment reform has been able to be decided by the government. Couldn't do it after the election during Prime Minister Rinte, but it hasn't been any better in Prime Minister Marin's time either. We also expected that Matti Vanhanen, who became Minister of Finance, would have brought that Ministry of Finance to this government, but unfortunately today this debut has also partly raised concerns as to whether the muscles of Vanhanen on the green left would be enough to turn this ship in the end. In our protest we have tabled six proposals for statements which, among other things, require the government to commit itself to the objectives of ensuring that the ratio of public debt to GDP does not exceed 80% under any circumstances and that the sustainability gap in public finances will be closed by the end of the decade. Unfortunately, today, the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, was unable to commit himself to this. We also propose that the government undertake to include in the roadmap the objective of increasing the employment rate to 80% by the end of the decade the sustainability of public finances. Unfortunately, it seems that the left-wing government is unable to commit itself to this. We are also calling for the government to commit itself to improving the budgetary position by at least EUR 5 billion by the end of the parliamentary term. Unfortunately, I believe that the Green Left will prevent this too. We also expect the government to bring in measures in the autumn to increase the number of jobs in the country by 100,000. There is no commitment on the part of the government today either. And in the last two, we suggest that the government prepares a revitalising fiscal policy for the preparation of the Ministry of Finance and clearly identifies the measures so that their ex post evaluation can be carried out. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u266	Mr President! This additional budget is a model example of the timely and efficient implementation of measures. It is clear that putting businesses over the crisis is a priority for economic policy. Bankruptcy would destroy organisational capital, weaken the labour market involvement of workers and reduce the ability of companies that survive the crisis to invest. Finland went into this crisis of the corona crisis from a good situation, and we can now afford to take on more public debt, and there is no immediate financial problem in sight. The interest rate seems to remain low as far as the eye can see. Finland’s creditworthiness is so good that we are paid for debt. The additional debt thus has no negative impact on the central government budget. But it is clear that we have to be responsible. You can't trust the interest rate to stay indefinitely at the current level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u269	Madam President! I wanted to make one more point when I mentioned that 4500 person-years, and I would like to complete and explain in more detail where this 4500 person-years comes from. So now that the 150 million will be presented for the confirmation of the Finnish Malmi Refinery Ltd balance sheet, this will give rise to a wave of increasing and contributing to the development of high technology and battery industries in Finland. When this industry is started to be built, it is estimated that a couple of projects when they are implemented, two planned factories, the annual labour force effect of these constructions would be about 4,500 person - years. This is one — one — of these employment effects that the government wants to contribute to. So that's where this is for geopolitics. And then, on the side of the bioeconomy, there are various factory projects, of which the Kemi bioproduct plant has been identified as one. The representative, Talvitie, has also made an excellent contribution to this cost support for companies, for which 300 million have been presented. This is important. The purpose of this money is to prevent bankruptcies and job losses, and this support will then also help companies recover from the interest rate crisis and may then prevent layoffs from becoming redundancies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u270	Madam President! We have had a very exceptional spring, and that is also what this amending budget is about. There has been talk of large sums and great concerns about the balancing of the economy too, and it is good to note that there are also smaller sums in this large package that can be very impressive. One such really important issue is this EUR 10 million package for the development of Finland's hobby model. It is planned that EUR 14.5 million will be earmarked for this every year from next year. In addition, there is also a desire to maintain the club activities of schools and to reserve EUR 2.8 million for them this year. In other words, children and young people want to carry out a good hobby in connection with school day as implemented by organisations, i.e. to get organisations and schools into close cooperation. This idea is the city center’s favorite child, and now it is born in the middle of the corona. This Finnish model dates back to the Icelandic model, where the exclusion of children and young people was prevented by supporting hobbies and monitoring curfews. This model, which adapts to Finnish conditions, supports free hobbies for children and young people of school age in connection with school day. This is a fine hand-out for many families and brings equality and dignity to all homes. Another even smaller amount, which pleases me, is this EUR 300000 extra money for the employment of young people, which comes to the 4H organisation, which operates on the basis of the goodness, well-being, reflection and training of its values. Even with this relatively small amount of money, many children and young people get a job, learn to work, and this organization, which supports wholesome pursuits, also gets money for it. I hope that the 4H organisation will also be involved when these hobbies are carried out in connection with school days. A very bright summer for all of you!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u271	We shall now resume the plenary session adjourned at 2 p.m. The fourth item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would now ask the ministers present to move to the Council of Ministers and ask those who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u272	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u273	Mr President! A good government, when the corona does not seem to affect the government’s ambitious climate goals and the government distributes money to save the EU’s lax countries, have you already decided to put Finnish private drivers in all this as a payment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u274	Mr President! I assume that the question of the honourable member of the Committee on Transport and Communications has been addressed to the Minister of Transport, and it is easy to answer that no. We have various transport projects to a significant extent now in the fourth amending budget, which this House is dealing with. Transport projects are an important stimulus, not only in the short term, when they provide jobs, but also in the long term, as they also enable the mobility of the workforce of companies in this country and the conditions for business and business activities. This is, above all, the response to the big industrial investment package that we are making possible a major investment in pulp mills in Kemi. As part of this package, we will overcoat you in Finland this summer more than 4,300 kilometres, which is 2.5 times more than last summer, so if you take an asphalt truck during your summer vacation
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u275	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u276	Mr President! Now that you are saying that you are not imposing these charges on motorists, do you assure us that there will be no more fuel taxes and user charges, no tolls and congestion charges, and are you prepared to cancel the fuel tax increase that had already been implemented?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u277	Mr President! Decisions have been made. Fuel tax decisions are included in the Government Programme, and these have been made in practice during each parliamentary term. In time, I looked through the increases of this century: in practice, every parliamentary term has taken decisions of the same size, and they have been made on fiscal grounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u278	Mr President! In the capital region in particular, demographic development is of a qualitative disadvantage. The so-called migration gain is largely made up of foreigners who are largely unemployed, inactive, underemployed or underpaid. One consequence of this so-called migration gain is that the price of living becomes unbearable. It is becoming increasingly difficult for a working but low-income Finnish to find affordable housing, which of course increases the need for mobility and commuting. As a result, commuting is extended as a result of different policies, and after that, we want to impose a fine on commuting, for example, in the form of congestion charges. Does the government think that this is fair, and does it add to the importance of accepting the work? What measures does the government intend to take to make it possible for people in large cities to live where there are jobs?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u279	Mr President! A really important question, especially about the cost of living in large cities. A response to this has been made to the fact that agreements have been concluded with the largest urban areas between land use, housing and transport, which aim to ensure the availability of affordable housing in the four largest urban areas, and where necessary, Minister Mikkonen will be able to tell you more about them. Today, the Government has decided to set up two planning companies that guarantee fast rail connections both to Turku and to Tampere and beyond. This is a historic day. Its purpose is not that these bullet trains should be something of an absolute value, but that the working area should expand so that people who work in the capital region, for example, are said to be a firefighter—teacher couple, for example, can afford Salos a affordable housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u280	Mr President! Ensuring affordable housing is very important, and that is why we have just concluded these MAL agreements. As Minister Harakka said, the results of the negotiations have now been completed with the four largest urban regions, and it is intended to ensure that, together with urban areas, there is sufficient land supply, there is sufficient ARA production to guarantee affordable housing, and also that the housing is located in such a way that public transport can also be used. Now, in addition to these four urban areas, this Government term will extend this MAL agreement to three other regions: Kuopio, Jyväskylä and Lahti, and negotiations have already begun with these regions, and hopefully we will also proceed to ensure good cooperation with urban regions in the region as well as with the state and regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u281	Mr President! I do want to go back to those traffic charges. The Government Programme states that the Government will explore the possibility of regulating legislation that allows congestion charges. In the capital region, this should mean that HSL is the one who decides on it, because the government does not decide on it, and we do not decide on it here in Parliament, we only make it possible. There are 26 municipalities in Uusimaa, of which only nine municipalities belong to HSL, and Helsinki has 49.7% voting power in HSL, which means that Helsinki residents will decide how Karkkila or Hyvinkää or Lohja or Raasepori are to be carried in Helsinki and vice versa. I would like to ask the government: at what point is this situation going to take place? How do you see: does this really support employment in the Uusimaa region and the motivation to move around at work if, according to some estimates, an annual fee of up to EUR 1 000 is charged?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u282	Mr President! The questioner has more detailed information on the content of possible legislation than the government. This is in the Government Programme, it is legislation that makes it possible, but what its content is, who in the city or in the urban area could take the relevant decisions — there are no decisions on it. Whether it applies only to the municipal street network or also to the state-funded roads — there are no decisions on this. You have highlighted one possible development in which such a payment might take place, but there is no government proposal on this yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u283	Mr President! Finland is committed to halving transport emissions by 2030, which is an extremely ambitious target. However, mobility is also a necessity here in the capital region, and even driving is not a problem in itself, but the emissions generated by driving are. Therefore, transport taxation and charges should target emissions, not mobility itself. Unfortunately, the congestion charge envisaged for the capital region, even in the context of the MAL agreement, has just the opposite effect. In particular, it makes it difficult for those in work who are forced to move at the time when congestion charges are in force and makes it extremely expensive. The Government will determine whether this congestion charge can be introduced at all. That's already part of this MAL deal. Can you tell us what the situation is at the moment with regard to the preparation of congestion charges, in other words the preparation of this legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u284	Mr President! Preparation is not in progress in such a way as to enable the content to be evaluated. I am such a fresh minister that, as I understand it, there is still no working group – now the other members of the Government will be able to correct it if that is the case. You and your warnings are very forward-looking, and time will show you the direction in which the content goes through preparation. From the point of view of transport in the metropolitan area, I would also like to highlight this distance work. After all, the interest period has shown how congestion has disappeared, and by promoting digitalisation and teleworking we can also achieve a great deal in terms of people's well-being, comfort, smooth traffic, and this also seems to be an aspect of the preparations that affect this volume of traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u285	Mr President! Representative Multala raised the issue of congestion charges as a joint will of local authorities in the metropolitan area, as enshrined in the MAL agreement, to allow such legislation to be made possible by the State. The situation is that if this were to be used locally, it would not be possible at all. That is why, of course, it is good for us to be able to make such legislation possible, and it is, of course, in the hands of the local authorities in the region whether or not to introduce it. But we know that, as has been pointed out here, reducing emissions from transport is one of the key elements of climate objectives where we have a lot to do. A road map for fossil-free transport is being prepared at the Ministry of Transport, and it is clear that it requires different means across Finland. Public transport works well in areas where there are many people, but in areas where there are few people, of course, it is essential to reduce emissions from passenger cars and can be affected by, for example, transport biogas or electric cars. But that's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u286	Mr President! More than 8 billion taxes are collected from transport. We no longer want to see road charges and congestion charges in this country. The Coalition Party has proposed that the amount of asphalting should now be increased to more than 6000 kilometres per year, as in the 1990s' recession, but rail transport is also essential from the point of view of transport emissions. VR dropped its own shifts to about 50 per cent and has now returned most of the shifts to 85 per cent. Cross-border transport is important, and at the moment Riihimäki and The situation between Lahti and Finland is still 50 per cent, i.e. in a corona-time situation, although almost all other shifts in Finland have been returned 85 per cent. I would now like to ask Minister Haraka: when this is purchasing services, this is not VR's decision, but it is a government decision — when the government pays for these trips from Riihimäki to Lahti,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u287	Mr President! I am familiar with this question raised in the Municipal Council of Kärkölä, and now VR is restoring traffic to the pre-emergency level of the corona crisis. The date on which this traffic will be increased is 10 August. I would have liked it to have been a week earlier, because the Government's recommendations for extensive teleworking would have ended on 1.8., and since we are already in the process of a Safe Journey campaign to convince the Finns that work tourism and public transport in general is safe again, provided that safety intervals are maintained and hygiene is ensured, this is why increasing supply is an extremely important safety measure. I've been in touch with VR about what you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u288	Mr President! These MAL agreements have emerged here, and they specifically support the transport, public transport and development of large cities, but when I am from that sparsely populated region, I know that when there are long distances, long distances and commuting, the only means of transport there is a passenger car. How has the government estimated: if any increases are made in a situation, could it be cheaper to travel to work in a sparsely populated area with its own car? In this way, it will also be possible to improve employment, because that car is the only means of mobility at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u289	A passenger car belongs to Finnish transport. Just as the questioner said, in most parts of Finland a significant part, in many areas perhaps even the majority, commuting and business traffic are based on passenger cars. In order to reduce emissions from passenger cars, Finland has been taking consistent action for a long time. Thanks to Finland's obligation to mix biofuels, I dare say that Europe in general was mobilised, and we have invested a great deal in it. Energy forms, electrification and other forms of passenger transport are at a strong pace. In other words, the specific emissions on the passenger car side are gradually also significantly reduced, and reality and reality are that Finnish services and the work and economy of Finns do not work without passenger cars, and the government has no different word compared to this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u290	Mr President! The Prime Minister said that there is really no information on what this congestion charge entry in the government programme is — if I have understood it correctly — and you said that because of the interest rate, it seems that the congestion has disappeared, because of telework. After all, we are now in a situation where all this congestion charge is completely unnecessary, and the government could say that this idea of congestion charging — no one seems to know what it might even be — could be pulled over the rails. Quite a few people contact us that they do not want congestion charges or increase travel costs. In January, the economic survey examined this issue and concluded that motorised detached houses are already paying for the Government’s climate objectives. If we were to abandon this target for congestion charges, no one seems to know or genuinely know it — it is some sort of throw. Can you say, Prime Minister, that we will remove it from there in vain?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u291	The Prime Minister is not present, but the Deputy Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u293	Mr President! We must remember that when we talk about the driving forces of transport, about the way the cars run, it is part of the whole energy policy, and these many new alternative propulsion forces are actually quite cheap, for example this transport biogas that Mr Mikkonen has already highlighted. The government has strongly registered this promotion of the production of transport biogas in the Government Programme, and I personally think that in sparsely populated areas in the long term, the car fleet could largely run on this biogas, and then I think again that electric vehicles in urban centres will certainly be the main propulsion force in the future. So I ask the government: how is this promotion of biogas production going, and how can we contribute to the creation and development of such regional biogas production centres? Biogas must be brought forward, and the centre is strongly on its side. As we have seen, the Finns of Peru are still secretive of Russian coal and oil, as today also shows.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u294	First Minister Harakka, then Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u295	Thank you for your very important question. Biogas is a very significant alternative, particularly where alternative propulsion forces, for example in heavy traffic, are otherwise not reasonably available. That is why such support for the heavy-duty biogas programme has been included in the amending budget, which does not sound like a large sum, of EUR 1 million, but that already means that if it were to be fully used now, it would double the amount of heavy-duty traffic that is now on biogas. And I would expand your question to the extent that Germany, in this major recovery package, has decided to invest as much as EUR 7 billion in the hydrogen economy, and we have excellent expertise in Finland at the Lappeenranta—Lahti Technical University, LUT, on how to produce synthetic fuels with electricity, and these
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u296	Mr President! Mr Honkonen is quite right in his question. The biogas team gave me their work there a few months ago, and perhaps you could describe that there is a little of this classic egg-chicken situation, that is, because there are no refuelling stations, there are no gas trucks, and when there are no cars, there are no refuelling stations. That is why the government has gone to support the expansion of this distribution network. I can see for myself that these will be a very significant part, but this continuation of traffic will be built on a number of different pieces. As Minister Harakka said, Germany imports hydrogen very strongly, but it is likely that its actual time will be between 20 and 30 years after that. Yes, this piece of space will be very strongly on batteries, which means that the battery strategy in Finland will also be extremely important for transport, which means that the bio-side will be seen there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u297	Mr President! Minister Harakka said in his own reply that a couple of project companies have been set up today to promote rail projects. Of course, their history is a little longer, in the last parliamentary term, when the Minister of Finance Orpo, I think, gave about 40 million to promote these projects, especially this growth triangle, Turku-Tampere-Helsinki, in order to obtain a single working area from it. It is excellent that progress is being made in this sector. The municipalities are involved in this by 50 per cent — right? — but it cannot be assumed that the municipalities themselves, after planning, could be involved in the implementation of this issue? What is essential, however, is to get a clear answer from the Minister now that, when this good development is what we say here together and when we move forward, will we proceed in the order in which the plans are most advanced, i.e. to achieve:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u298	Mr President! The representative, Mr Kanerva, was quite right to give credit for this long process to many people. I would also like to remind our current Prime Minister, then Minister of Transport and Communications Sanna Marin, that these negotiations were successfully launched. There are many financing options for the construction phase. For example, municipalities can play a part in building development, but I also believe that as a safe infrastructure investment it is also of interest to many commercial operators as an investment. This is the whole palette open, and the order in which the project companies are implemented depends, of course, on the fact that they are independent, independent companies operating and producing results. Yesterday, negotiations were also launched to identify the eastern planning companies,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u301	I give this question to the author of the original question, Mr Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u302	Mr President! Good government, if it is possible to charge congestion charges, how will the government ensure that big cities do not use this as an attraction? Well, of course, it's hard to answer when you didn't know much about the whole traffic charge business. However, let us put the question to it: when fuel taxation is going to rise, no matter what you claim here, how will the Finnish professional driver still be kept alive after these fuel increases?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u303	Thank you to the questioner for the very important question, because it is the transport sector that has suffered very badly in this corona crisis. As far as passenger transport is concerned, we all know how taxi companies, especially small individual entrepreneurs, have come into quite intolerable difficulties, but even bigger operators and even traditional bus companies have been in serious difficulties. That is why it is good that they have now been able to apply for this cost support, which we have recently decided on, plus a refund of VAT. Fortunately, however, our freight transport has been operating in part thanks to the shipping connections provided by the Security of Supply Agency, surprisingly normal compared to what would have been the worst scenario. We are constantly concerned that this industry will continue to have the conditions for success.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u304	Let's go to the next topic. Congressman Janne Heikkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u305	Mr President! According to the statistics of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the number of unemployed job seekers has nearly doubled in a year to over 430,000. The unemployment rate has already risen by more than 10%. This is shocking. The unemployed, laid off and their loved ones simply deserve better. We all know that many proposals have been prepared in the ministries to improve employment. However, their introduction requires political will. I ask Minister Vanhanen: can you commit yourself to presenting in the budget debate the means to obtain at least 100,000 new recruits by the end of the parliamentary term? And can you continue as Minister and the centre of this government if these new employment reforms are not visible?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u306	Mr President! Yesterday’s employment figures were tragically readable and are in the same direction as in most parts of the world. In particular, the number of layoffs has increased strongly. You mentioned that unemployment is 10%, but by counting laid-off, it is over 17%. This rapid growth over a few months has been a faster collapse than since the financial crisis and is mainly based on the fact that households and businesses are experiencing uncertainty, the demand is weak, and I am afraid that the next step will be due to the difficulties of exports, because demand for investment goods is also deteriorating, and we will still be hit very hard by this world economy. So I don't see how I'm going to have the means to get into the September budget line to do a pompous pomp of 100,000 new jobs. This is not what I'm promising.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u307	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u308	Mr President! In the opinion of the Coalition Party, Finland does not rise from this swamp by increasing debt or permanent expenditure, but by working, entrepreneurship and hard work. The only so-called employment reform that the government has come to an agreement with each other is the trial of municipalities. However, the government has failed to demonstrate credible employment effects. The coalition calls on the government to take credible decisions to strengthen employment. We have the proposals for 60,000 new jobs, and you will get them, the government, quite well at your disposal. I'd like to ask Mr. Haatainen: Why has the government not been able to decide on any measurable employment reforms? And could you consider introducing at least one coalition of employment reforms?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u309	Mr President! Indeed, the employment situation has deteriorated, and this situation is currently showing itself to be the number of layoffs that have risen very strongly and has hit people with great strength. Young people in particular have been suffering, and when you look at statistics, young women appear overrepresented there. But this corona crisis has also hit entrepreneurs and businesses. Government action in this situation has focused on the fact that these crisis measures have sought to create such a situation — a bridge over this economic crisis — that these layoffs would not turn into mass redundancies. This has been achieved so far. The question is, just as Mr Vanhanen said, that the economic outlook, what is still ahead in the autumn, is still unclear.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u310	Mr President! Indeed, unemployment is now increasing at a truly worrying rate, and hence debt. Debt would be better tolerated if we had faith that Finland's economy will grow in the future, but nothing predicts that it will grow, and the Minister of Finance well described the dark clouds that are, for example, in our export industries. The government has not been able to do the first real measure of employment, and we have no faith that they will come in the autumn either. What has been said so far about the government, for example, the Prime Minister’s flash of hundreds of millions of tax increases for businesses, i.e. employers, would be a complete poison. On the basis of this, it seems that the government is now choosing not to have employment and growth measures, a stifling path of growth, to leave undone employment measures to the next governments and to leave a huge debt mountain. Mr Vanhanen, the Deputy Prime Minister, is the whole government taking this situation seriously where we are?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u311	Mr President! I do not think that this government should be asked whether the situation is being taken seriously. Yes, this ended in spring, more than three months of exceptional circumstances, the treatment of the interest rate, the taking of nearly 20 billion deficits this year to deal with this situation, tells us that it is certainly well known behind these tables that this situation is serious and that it may also be possible to assess the seriousness of the situation when, almost everywhere in our market, national products are falling by 5, 6, 7 or 8%. It will result in major difficulties for exports and also difficulties for our economy. So we know the degree of severity. In the September budget debate, the government will take concrete employment decisions, their content and scale are in preparation. In addition to those decisions, as stated in the supplementary budget decision, the government will also increase the previously set employment rate of 60,000
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u313	Mr President! The most interesting speech in today's debates was Mr Vanhanen's quote 'no means of budget debate on100000 job renewals'. This was just unfortunate news, unfortunate news, an unfortunate softening of the line in which Vanhanen began this project and the task. I hope, however, that today, in accordance with the target setting, preparations will be made to bring the means into 100,000. That is what calls for concrete decisions and they will not take place in the moment. That is why we need to take those decisions now, so that in two years' time these structural reforms will have an impact on everyone's taking up job offers. When the left says that it is a stick, then here is the question of responding to a person with earnings who sees that it is not possible to start entrepreneurship because the subsidies would go away. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u314	Mr President! I answered Mr Heikkinen's question in which he asked for a commitment to make decisions on 100,000 jobs in the autumn budget debate. I said I can't and the government can't do this at this time limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u317	Mr President! In particular, Finland needs new jobs in the private sector. Unfortunately, Finland's competitiveness is weakened by a high tax rate, and taxation is subject to blackmail whenever new expenditure is added to the state budget. Debt or tax increases without expenditure discipline cannot be a permanent solution. Otherwise, both our public finances and our entire economy will end up in a downward spiral. Of course, that must be prevented. Mr President! In order to improve the competitiveness of companies and the purchasing power of citizens, the government must be able to prioritise expenditure. It must be particularly critical for expenditure items outside Finland. In addition to immigration and development aid expenditure, these include, for example, the introduction of a possible new EU recovery fund for Finland. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u318	Mr President! I say the same thing as Mr Mykkänen's recent question — about taxation in general and business taxation in general: whether fiscal policy will be tightened after the recovery phase, I have publicly said that if this were to happen, perhaps the most opportune date will be in 2022 at the earliest. First of all, this recovery in the market and in the home countries must be achieved in such a way that a measure, as it were, contrary to resuscitation, is taken. But in the case of taxation and expenditure, if addressed, it will be around 2022. The Government is not currently in the process of preparing for this. Certainly, in this larger reconstruction plan, the way forward from the post-column period, fiscal policy issues will also have to be addressed, but there is no answer to that question at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u319	A question has been put to this same subject by Mr Harkimo, Mr Liike Now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u320	Mr President! I would like to take an example of where unemployment is growing rapidly. The Government's last decision, the new model, to remove travel restrictions with the emphasis on caution, is causing a major financial loss to the Finnish economy. In 2018, the significance of tourism for the Finnish economy was EUR 15 billion and the income from abroad was EUR 5 billion. Up to 80% of tourism workers have now been laid off. The cashiers of tourism companies are empty because of the refund of cancelled travel money, and no action can be taken in the event of uncertainty. Bankruptcy threatens many companies in the sector, and unemployment is rising. The only way would have been to remove travel restrictions from 1 July. What is the government going to do to save the tourism industry and eliminate the threat of unemployment, and when are you going to do something? This new cost support is not enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u321	Mr President! Mr Harkimo is quite right that tourism has certainly suffered during this corona crisis as one of the most important sectors. But then, on the other hand, the real situation: we have not had much of a chance to open up the borders in the past. All the decisions that the government has made have been based on the information, the forecasts we have received from experts who have been THL, STM and so on. There are solutions under those conditions. The government will assess – I think it will be the next few weeks, whether it was the 8th – the opening of borders, and I strongly hope that we will be able to open up borders, because it is extremely important for Finnish tourism. Until then, I repeat my appeal: domestic tourism is also extremely important for tourism entrepreneurs in Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u322	Mr President! Bringing the economy back on its feet and improving employment is certainly one of the most important tasks for this government in the future. Employment must be improved so that at the same time we solve other problems. The climate and biodiversity crisis cannot wait. It has also been studied that investments in the green economy create three times more permanent jobs than investments in the fossil economy. So I ask the government: how do we ensure that economic and employment measures also resolve climate and biodiversity crises?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u323	Mr President! It is only natural that stimulus measures should be targeted in a way that also responds to market growth, to the potential where demand is best. Nature-saving measures, measures to promote digitality are a mainstream in the world, and we need to be involved in this growth. There is little investment at the moment, especially in the private sector, which would not take this development into account, and of course the state must also make its own efforts to promote this. It is good for Finns' own well-being, employment and economic growth if we are also able to promote things that are positive for the environment. In particular, the response to climate change is a megatrend in the world that collects billions, billions of investments, and we must be involved in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u324	Mr President! Mr Mykkänen has already asked about employment promises. Of course, much will depend on where the reference point is set. In fact, if the decisions are taken on 100,000 jobs, there may be much more of them if compared to the current situation. If compared to one year ago, of course, it will be much more difficult. However, I am concerned that you were opening the veil, Mr Vanhanen, for possible increases in corporate taxation or tax increases in 2022. Do you believe that Finland will increase corporate taxation or increase employment taxation? Similarly, it is worrying that, when you previously considered it realistic that Finland's debt ratio should not rise by more than 80%, this will require more than 100,000 jobs. Are you, therefore, taking Finland in a direction where our debt ratio would exceed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u325	Mr President! I think we are blind if we do not see that the current need for an adjustment of around EUR 5 billion to bring about a break in the debt ratio by 2030 does not require measures in all sectors. Improving employment is certainly the main factor in this. Improving productivity also in the public sector — and this is not the least of all — is an extremely important issue, but we would be blind if we did not recognise in this context that the possible tightening of fiscal policy will also have to be assessed. This happened after the recession in the '90s, after the financial crisis. From an economic point of view, this crisis is on the same scale. I have not taken the view that, if fiscal policy is tightened up, what possible taxes it will have to deal with, let alone the scale, but should not be ruled out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u326	Mr President! If we had to name the most important decision of this year that the government has taken for employment, it was a decision to support businesses, jobs, public authorities in the midst of this corona crisis. If instead of layoffs, companies would have been made redundant, or if these layoffs would become more mass redundancies, then the challenge of public finances will be so great that it will not be allowed to be cut to the bone, and certainly no one will want that. Mr President! The government is moving forward with the steps that, for example, the Vesa Vipriälä report states: firstly, to support the acute crisis, then to revive it, and then, in the third phase, to look at these adjustments, the fiscal policy line. And certainly there, as the Prime Minister has said, there is a need to look at both the income and expenditure side, and at least I personally think that rather than, for example, tightening the taxation of employees or tightening the taxation of a pensioner — which the Finns of Finland have proposed here today — we should look at the tax base of large foreign investors, for example. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u327	Mr President! Compulsory education is a good example of the structural reforms that we need, which we need to implement quickly and which will then have a very significant impact on employment in Finland as well as on our economy in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u328	Mr President! Even before the corona crisis, this government became aware of the fact that it made easy decisions to increase expenditure, but the decisions that could have improved employment, increased employment rates, were always postponed. Then there was the corona epidemic, which, in my opinion, has been handled well by the government itself, but now the Finance Minister, Mr Vanhanen, said that you cannot commit yourself to making decisions in the autumn on reforms that could lead to 100,000 new jobs. However, the government has previously decided that in the autumn there should be 30,000 new jobs of decision-making origin identified by the Ministry of Finance, decisions on these. Now I ask: is this government's objective still in force?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u329	Mr President! It is good that Mr Zyskowicz raised this issue because there is a decision on this preparation for 30,000 and it is in line with the previous government decision. I would like to be clear about the fact that suddenly it will be raised to 100,000: no expectations which I know beforehand do not have the opportunity to do so on this timetable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u330	Mr President! We discussed debt earlier today. I said at the time that debt is not a problem for the moment, but a long-term, long-term state must have a road map to a situation where income is at least as high as expenditure. There is no solution to the problems of public finances other than increasing the amount of productive work. This means, on the one hand, safeguarding the competitiveness and operating conditions of the industry, particularly the export industry — i.e. by means other than dumping wages through cheap labour — but, on the other hand, companies in the service sector are also an important source of employment. Their ability to employ and succeed depends on the purchasing power of people, i.e. what they lose after compulsory spending and taxes. Does government policy support industrial competitiveness and strengthen the purchasing power of employees?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u331	Mr President! The overall competitiveness that we need here is, of course, made up of an enormous number of elements, and of course the labour market organisations play the most important role in this most traditional, cost-competitiveness. But other factors in competitiveness are equally knowledge, which has just become one of the issues of education, and innovation and product development, which the government invests in. So the answer to the question is that this overall competitiveness is affected by the government and is at the very heart of our success. In addition, we are also constructively contributing to achieving economic growth in our most important market area, Europe, because it will ultimately determine the scale of the costs for us. A road map is needed to control debt. First, we need to get a reliable situational picture of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u332	Thank you. — Before moving to the next topic, Mr Heikkinen, Janne.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u333	Mr President! Prime Minister Marin presented the SDP's tax policy objectives in the Midsummer interview in Iltalehti, including tightening the taxation of non-listed companies and a whole host of other taxes that discipline Finnish enterprise and ownership. Thus, the SDP’s solution to the corona crisis is to raise taxes of up to EUR 800 million and discourage hard-working Finnish entrepreneurs. The central threshold for government spending was one year ago that the taxation of entrepreneurs and businesses should not be tightened. That is why I ask you, Finance Minister Vanhanen: does the centre, in the autumn debate, accept the SDP's presentation of a tax programme to punish entrepreneurs and domestic ownership against its own threshold?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u334	Mr President! This is not party Question Time. We have a government programme and it has not been changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u335	Next question, Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u336	Mr President! Spring has been heavy for many families, especially for families that have been facing challenges even before emergency conditions. The inequality of families has been highlighted. Poverty, health and social problems are at the bottom. Family poverty was a major problem even before the corona, let alone after the financial difficulties brought about by the corona, and many services, such as rehabilitation and mental health services, may have been on a break during the corona. However, the problems and the need for these services have not disappeared, on the contrary, and the need for support and assistance has also remained hidden under exceptional circumstances. Service systems, in particular those of children, young people and families, must be invested. I would now like to ask the minister concerned: what are the precise means by which the government is now helping these families and making sure that these families are not excluded?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u337	Mr President! I fully agree with you. Yes, in this corona crisis, especially in its aftermath, we must look at the situation that has already taken place, but in particular at the post-corona crisis. Yesterday, we published a report on children's and young people's issues, which has been carried out in the preparatory phase of the strategy for children, and it is clear from what Mr Tanus has just demonstrated that the corona crisis has had an impact on the everyday lives of families, not only from the point of view of children and young people, but also from the point of view of the well-being of the family as a whole. That is why, in the context of the fourth amending budget, we have already reached the conclusion as a government that the daily lives of children and young people and families must be strongly supported. Around 320 million will be channelled into this entity, mainly supported by both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. And this week, the day before yesterday, it was decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u338	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u339	Mr President! There are therefore concrete measures to be taken, we hope. But how about school? Schools were opened before holidays, for example, because all children and young people are reached after a long break. Unfortunately, however, not everyone was reached. How are we to ensure that these missing young people are reached? We should be prepared to increase the need for child welfare services. We need to be prepared for the fact that perhaps there will be a thorn in child protection declarations as early as the autumn. I would like to ask the minister concerned: how do we ensure that child protection is not congested at a time when assistance is particularly needed? How to ensure that one employee does not have too large a number of customers so that he or she is able to get to know and manage customer work properly? What measures will be taken to support the post-corona approach? What about schools, educational institutions: What are the means to respond to the increased need for student care?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u340	Mr President! Thank you to the representative for the extremely important question. The situation is, as the representative states, that we know that there has been an increased need for support during the spring. There are students who have not been reached and we know that there are families where problems have accumulated and grew during the spring. One of the key concrete ways in which the government now wants to support municipalities, the providers of education in this regard is precisely this support package for children and young people, which provides concrete resources for student guidance, student support and further education. In other words, the key means are that those professionals are there, that they also have time to face those young people and then give them support in the autumn. I also think it is extremely important to communicate to families and parents that it is safe to return to early childhood education in the autumn, for example. Authorities have given instructions on how safety is ensured in day - care homes as well. Especially on the part of early childhood education was the fact that not all children actually returned during the spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u341	Mr President! Families need support, and young people need support, but so do families with family carers. Minister, are you prepared, during this term of government, at last to make the aid for informal care completely tax-free? I wish you were finally ready for it. Are you, yes or no?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u345	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u346	Then there is the question, Mr Hänninen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u347	Mr President! According to a recent study by THL, many key municipal services were driven down during the interest-bearing spring. In particular, maternity clinics and school health care services were severely reduced, even unnecessarily. It is noteworthy in the report that municipalities, especially those not affected by the corona epidemic, have cut down on these services with a heavy hand. In particular, health inspections of play-age people were reduced. In contrast, school health visits decreased by as much as 80 per cent from one year ago. Mr President! We know that the interest rate has caused a lot of care debt in municipalities when people have also missed the necessary medical visits. In addition to this, we know that the interest rate itself and the related restrictive measures have had a particularly severe impact on pre-vulnerable children, young people and families with children. I would like to ask Minister Kiuru: what action will the government take?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u348	Mr President! That's a very good question. Yes, we have had to instruct the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health many times that the game is not working. That's the way it is. In this respect, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has specifically instructed municipalities to take into account the state of emergency in basic operations, so that social and health care services must function, as well as preventive clinic services must be carried out as far as possible. And when services may also have been missed because people, for one reason or another, have not sought care or services or have at least been afraid to apply, that is why we have a health debt and a welfare debt to pay here. The representative may even point out that an assessment of the treatment guarantee at baseline and specific level is appropriate, and yes, at least myself, I am assuming that this is certainly also a key issue in the budget debate. It will also be assessed in this post-treatment group,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u349	Thank you for a good debate. Many important questions remained to be asked after the summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-25-ps-103.u350	The fifth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, we can now adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
