ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u2	Mr President! A huge number of workers are laid off or unemployed. It is now important to work together to encourage and attract these people and young people to work in gardens, strawberry picking and farms. Several thousands of Finns are urgently needed for field and garden work. We must now quickly dismantle incentive traps by means of extra carrots and immediately after the crisis, to look at the situation thoroughly, both in terms of social security, unemployment benefit, the receipt of short-term work and, in particular, security of supply. In addition, flexibility is required from agricultural and horticultural employers. It is quite clear that a Ukrainian who has spent five years in seasonal work can do things more efficiently than a young person who has been on the farm for the first summer. Instead, a fundamental prejudice against the fact that Finns are unable or unable to do agricultural and horticultural work should be stopped. Most of us in the city can at least weed and pick, the most skilled even to drive a tractor. Of course, those living in rural areas are even more capable of these things in every way. It is clear that agricultural work is hard, but it should not be exaggerated either. After all, Finland has always been able and able to work for its own food, livelihood and well-being. At least in my own ear, when I hear that one Vietnamese on a farm is equivalent to ten Finns. Mr President! We proposed a week ago that those who were laid off and unemployed because of the corona virus should be able to maintain their unemployment benefit during the crisis when they moved to farm work. The Prime Minister welcomed our proposal and we have now also read in the news that according to the information received from the Ministry of Yle, the proposal has also given the green light to progress. This is excellent and we would like to thank the government for this. We also raised this issue in a statement of objection to the report of the Committee on Administrative Affairs now before us. Unfortunately, it did not receive support in committee, but perhaps the situation is now another in this Chamber, when the government has also said that it is moving forward, and the other opposition party, the coalition, has also made similar proposals. In other words, Mr President, I would like to suggest that Parliament accepts the statement contained in the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u3	Mr President! I support this motion by Mr Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u4	Mr President! It is quite clear that Finnish agriculture, but also industry and all the other sectors that are currently in labour shortages, also need factors in these times of crisis. I would therefore like to make a proposal for a statement: ‘The Commission requires the government to become involved without “
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u5	Mr President! I support the statement made by Mrs Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u6	Mr President! Agricultural and horticultural farms must now be certain that the harvest will also be harvested in due course, so that all these different planting and preparation work is worth doing at all. That is why I support these proposals that have been made here. At the same time, I would like to say that if we do not have enough of this labour force, I believe that the government should also be prepared to use military and civil servants to help the farms. And, indeed, the availability of this workforce and the certainty that the harvest will be harvested should be assured now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u7	Proposals for statements have been made in the course of the debate, so we must put the matter to the vote. The votes will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session shall resume at 10 a.m. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll ask you to keep those security distances when you get back to the gym. It is about one bench between these spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u8	The sitting adjourned at 10:06 a.m. and the third item in the order of business will now be resumed. In the debate, Riikka Purra, supported by Jussi Halla-aho, has tabled a motion for a statement in response to the objection, and Mari-Leena Talvitie Anna-Kaisa Ikonen, supported by Mrs Ikonen, has submitted a proposal for a statement which has been distributed to the representatives as a multiplicity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u9	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u10	Mr President! The aim of this proposal is to facilitate the economic situation of laid-off persons and those benefiting from unemployment benefit for other reasons in exceptional circumstances, and it applies to both laid-off and laid-off persons. According to the latest data, the number of laid off due to the corona virus situation is already around 77,000 persons and the number of new unemployed is around 10,000. Almost 400,000 people are also involved in the co-operation negotiations initiated because of the corona virus situation. Especially in the tourism, hotel, restaurant and other service sectors, lay-offs and lay-offs have hit these workers hard. These amendments are intended to apply from 16 March to 6.7.2020. This proposal puts a strain on the implementation of the contributors to unemployment benefit at the same time as the amount of work is already increasing due to the increasing number of applications. It is therefore necessary to streamline the treatment of benefits and to secure adequate resources for those implementing unemployment benefits to enable them to be dealt with as quickly as possible. This is why the committee made a proposal on this matter: ‘The treatment of unemployment security benefits will be achieved andimplemented by the unemployment funds and the National Pension Insurance Institution to ensure that the benefits can be paid without The opinion was adopted unanimously in committee. At the same time, we have significant challenges and risks in primary production for the coming spring. Ensuring sufficient labour on farms is threatened. The production of horticultural plants in particular requires a large number of seasonal workers. Most of them normally come from abroad to Finland, but this is now under threat due to travel restrictions due to an epidemic. The most critical and urgent work has been identified at the beginning of the growing season in agricultural and horticultural production and in the management of farm animals. Of course, the government is making every effort to get this done, but, despite all the efforts made, it seems likely that, for example, the production volume of vegetables and berries will be lower than normal. Many farms have started to adjust their production in a situation where normal production is not possible. This is very sad and sad because the production of domestic vegetables is important for Finns, it is important for security of supply, local food, Finnish farmers and entrepreneurs. In view of the above, I have made a proposal for a statement: ‘The Council of State is urgently preparing proposals to enable a person who is laid off to work in primary production for one
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u11	Mr President! We have literally spent a quiet week and a quiet week, and I am not going to talk much myself. I would like to say that this government proposal is excellent and, in its unanimous report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers the proposed amendments to be necessary and supports the adoption of these legislative amendments as unchanged. I think it is good to agree with this in this situation, but of course we must look for different ways of employing people and saving our crops. Mr Laiho raised the committee's statement that the government must explore ways to streamline the treatment of unemployment benefits. In this context, I would also like to thank the government for its swift action. I am referring here to the draft amending budget which was published yesterday, which is about to receive more funding for Kela and the unemployment funds. Of course, if necessary, we must be ready for new measures to make the benefits more streamlined. Mr President! As I turn to the end of my speech, it has been a pleasure to work in this house and as the head of this country in these times when we have jointly made very creative decisions to safeguard the well-being of both business and employees and the most vulnerable. I believe that these silent weeks have also taken many ideas higher than secular matters, and I hope that both the government and the parliament and the entire people of Finland will now have opportunities for rest and recreation during Easter holidays, because we still have a lot of work to do. We can continue with new strength.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u12	Mr President! I support Mr Laiho's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u13	Mr President! The purpose of this government proposal is to temporarily amend the Act on Unemployment Protection, the Act on the Financing of Unemployment Benefits and the Act on the Unemployment Fund. According to the proposal, the benefit would be paid in the form of a basic daily allowance, earnings-related allowance or labour market support in the event of the start of payment of unemployment benefit. Mr President! This has been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the report was adopted unanimously there. We were very concerned about the way in which the treatment of unemployment benefit would be smooth, and we tabled a proposal for a joint declaration there: ‘The Commission requires that the government immediately clarify ways to improve the treatment of unemployment benefits and ensure that unemployment funds and the benefits of the National Pension Insurance Institution areimplemented,that the benefits can be paid without delay’. Mr President! Finland’s economy has come into a situation that is a major threat to the business environment, employment and people’s livelihood. Many people in their homes, laid off or under negotiation, wonder how everything will be dealt with, how Easter will be dealt with and what the prospects will be for the future will be. Companies are in trouble. We can't go shopping, but even this Easter we can go online. It would be very important for us to support those Finnish companies that have e-commerce opportunities, among other things, and to place orders in accordance with our abilities. The aim of this government proposal is to facilitate the economic situation of laid-off persons and those receiving unemployment benefit for other reasons in these exceptional circumstances. Mr President! Representative Laiho made a statement here. Unfortunately, however, this statement has not been raised or discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, so in that sense it came as a surprise to the Finnish Parliament, but of course it sounds good that the idea is the same as that of the Finns who have been driving things here to this day.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u14	Mr President! It is gratifying that there have been messages from berry farms and vegetable and root houses that they have now received an exceptional avalanche of applications. However, the need is great, many thousands of workers, and that is why I support Mr Laiho's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u15	A proposal for a statement has been made during the debate, so we must put the matter to the vote. The vote will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session shall resume at 10.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u16	The sitting adjourned at 10.22 p.m. and the 4th item on the agenda are now resumed. With the support of Mia Laiho Jukka Kopra in the debate, a proposal for a statement has been tabled, which has been distributed to the representatives in a multi-faceted way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u17	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u18	Mr President! Home care professionals can now spend up to tens of minutes searching for a licensed parking space. In addition, there may be a ten - pound supply bag that should be brought to the patient. All this is due to the fact that the current law has not allowed special authorisation for home care vehicles. Hunting a parking place is an ineffective use of working time, which is directly out of nursing work. The situation is particularly critical in large cities. Efforts have been made to promote the matter through council initiatives in local municipalities and through contracts with rental housing companies and housing companies, but finding a solution has been challenging. This is already a national problem, as the nurse may have up to 16 customer visits during one shift. Also, there is no mercy from parking overseers, even if the prolonged parking is due to nursing work. In fact, home care workers often have to pay a parking fee for their own bags. People are coming to help, and they're paying a parking ticket. The ageing of the population should not lead to an increasing pile of fines on the part of the workers who have come. Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, a statement was made in the Committee on Transport and Communications in connection with the amendment of the Road Traffic Act, which was unanimously adopted in committee, that a solution must be found before the implementation of the Road Traffic Act in the summer to come. I would now like to thank the government for taking up this statement made by the Committee on Transport and Communications and dealing with this matter in such a way that it has now been taken into account in the Road Traffic Act so that home care workers will have this right.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u19	Mr President! Just briefly: today has indeed been expected. The situation of home care staff in the field has been quite intolerable — Mr Laiho has already explained these backgrounds. The staff have even had to pay their own parking tickets, which is totally unreasonable, totally unreasonable, for the low-paid workforce. In this context, I would like to thank the Committee on Transport and Communications for the fact that, despite this very challenging time and challenging working pressure in the committees, they have now received this bill here. Now we are in this situation today, that there is already a second reading and this now comes into force, and now we are left with the municipalities to implement this really important law so that in Finland the right and fairness of home care workers in this respect will finally be realised. So thank you very much to the Committee on Transport and Communications and to everyone who has contributed to this issue here in Parliament. It's a great day!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u20	Mr President! Mr Guzenina began his speech with the words ‘expected today’. I could add immediately that Mr Guzenina in particular has been waiting for this day, no less than 13 years. This is the basis for the legislative initiative he has taken in 2007, which is the basis for this final process here. In that sense, we see that the legislative initiatives taken by the MPs are important — even if they are so long a delay — that they will eventually be realised, and this is a valuable addition in that respect. After all, there are a number of examples in this parking control practice that do not ensure justice and fairness. This may be extreme examples of this: people who work at home are, as it were, penalized by their own pocket to pay these fines — in principle otherwise they will have difficulty parking; working time will be completely wasted. In Parliament, Mr President, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we also have another initiative on parking supervision, including a joint initiative by Members of Parliament, 122 signatories, in which this fine business, which has been created around this parking control, is being pursued. I hope that it will not take 13 years for that initiative to be dealt with, but that it will be done during this parliamentary term. However, 122 MPs were behind it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u21	Mr President! It is indeed a good thing that the committee has decided to remove this proposal for a parking number for home care from this repair package of the Road Traffic Act, so that this correction can be brought into effect as soon as possible. Indeed, this problem has been known for a long time, but now, in fact, during the corona period, there has been a signal from that field that this problem has continued to escalate in the case of housekeepers, as their work has become more demanding anyway. It should be noted, of course, that this law and the entry into force of this law are very direct. This problem will not be solved, but will then really have to be decided by the municipalities, that is to say, we must make use of this law and make decisions to introduce the parking number allowed by this law for carers in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u22	Mr President! Finally, this legislative amendment is now in the Chamber after dozens of hearings. This is important, as has been said today, from the point of view of the daily lives of elderly people and health care. Busy nursing this way gives you a little extra resources, more time for the actual work. And it is important that Parliament should now make these parking arrangements possible. The tool is now largely, as Mr Räsänen said, in the use and implementation of municipalities and joint societies. Also needed now especially in municipalities such as the implementation and interpretation of everyday legislation. This should not, under any circumstances, be made a problem. Both this law offers a good opportunity for the parking there to carry out home care work in everyday life, and it is hoped that the municipalities will now accept this ball in that spirit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u23	Mr President! I would like to add my voice to the thanks that have been expressed here in the Chamber. This has been my great grief in many municipalities. This message from home care workers has been strong for many years, and I fully understand that it has been completely unfair, and it is totally unfair and inappropriate for workers to even pay fines for their small wages and, on the other hand, to spend their working hours looking for legal parking places. Now we are trying to correct the problem, as it were, of the law. Of course, not all the problems may yet be eliminated, but these follow-up problems can be resolved better in municipalities than in the past on the basis of this law, and this is a very good thing. I believe that this is going to move forward with all the unanimity in Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u24	Mr President! I would also like to add my voice to these thanks. It is great that a solution has finally been found at the legislative level to this home care parking situation. I remember the first time I came across this. About 10 years ago I was a deputy mayor in Tampere, in charge of services for the elderly, and this issue and the problematics came from a lot of home care workers. At the time, we left it to solve it locally, and it required that individual housing companies, the housing company, were tried to negotiate, and it was extremely laborious. It was then appealed to the State and tried to seek out and felt that more of the problems and reasons arose, which is why this is not possible than to have been found solutions. I just want to say that this is a terrible long road. I appreciate the fact that those solutions have now been found, and I thank you for that. Why is this important? This is because it makes sense for home care workers not to spend time looking for parking places on different sides, but to have more time now to stay with the customer. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u25	Mr President! Finland is ageing and the need for services to be taken home is increasing. It has also been a message from decision-makers across party boundaries for a long time that efforts are being made to enable people to live at home as far as possible in life, and therefore the need to take these services home will continue to grow. This bill is very wise and I would also like to thank everyone who has been involved in this debate and who has made an effort here. Of course, the municipalities will then resolve practical issues and create those practices for all of this, but I think that it is up to us in Parliament to continue working together on this type of work, which will increase opportunities for home care in a rational, efficient and also in a way that is human for home care workers and which will increase the well-being of home care workers. It is not in anyone's interest in this society that workers are forced to look for parking places and, at worst, to pay fines when they are so important for human society. I encourage all of us to continue to reflect on what can be done to ensure that the working conditions of home care are in line with the fact that the sector is also attractive, because the workforce is becoming very short-lived in an ageing Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u26	Mr President! At the same time, as the number of elderly people in our society increases, we aim to increase the number of elderly people living at home for as long as possible. This, of course, is also a challenge for our built environment. The possibility for home care workers to bring services to homes is absolutely essential and important when talking about this extension of the period of residence at home, and this government proposal to allow home care parking in closed parking areas is part of the solution to this. Home care is still not necessarily available in the yard of the housing company, so municipalities should take this into account in the future, in planning in the future, and hopefully the housing companies will also take up this challenge, drawing attention to the fact that home care also has access to the yard of the housing company. At the same time, as we make it possible to live at home through these services that bring us home, we must continue to build high-quality accessible housing. Our building stock is being reformed more slowly than the increase in the proportion of older people in the population, so there is certainly no room for loosening the accessibility requirements for new construction. In addition to the accessibility of the built environment, the quality of housing is an essential aspect when we consider that elderly people can live at home longer. During this time of the corona quarantine, many people have become familiar with how it feels to live in one and the same apartment all day long, and it is also good to assess whether the quality of our living is high enough so that elderly people can also enjoy their own homes for long periods of time, as is often the case in their lives. I thank the government for this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u27	Mr President! As far as transport is concerned, this is much more than just this home care job, which is, of course, the HCT trains. The HCT trains would have remained in the depot, so to speak, if this package had not been completed in its entirety. Indeed, as a big part of this is this facilitation of home care parking, and for that, thank you absolutely to the government. I myself worked on this in the Committee on Transport and Communications, and there have not really been many other things in which everyone would have agreed so clearly. Of course, it is a little confusing for such a new representative if, in a way, it takes 13 years to take such a simple matter, on which everyone shares this view. [Left: Yes!] I hope and I at least challenge everyone to the fact that if there are good projects coming or going or whatever, they would certainly not take 13 years, at least because a particular person has proposed them or a particular party. That would be perhaps the most foolish thing to do to our citizens, to leave the good things behind because that job comes from the wrong angle. We certainly have enough to bend over on matters where there is really a little disagreement. If someone comes up with a good idea about the things they agree on, let's give the feather to the guy who makes it up and don't give up on the job because this guy can't get the feather in his hat now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u28	Mr President! This bill, the government's proposal, will make the whole parliament go down together. After all, this is a genuine attempt to support home care, to improve home care. Home care is an expanding form. More and more of the elderly live at home. We hope that they will live at home for as long as possible. It is a socially advantageous way to care for the elderly, and the elderly are also happy to live within their own framework, which means investing in this home service, home care. This has another dimension, which is why I wanted to speak again, and that is because, in this situation of coronavirus, we have urged the elderly to refrain from physical contact, to abstain at home and, in a way, the need for home service has increased exponentially right now. This is rarely well-timed now, when 13 years have been expected that by now this bill will be adopted at the latest. From now on, home care will become more effective in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u29	Mr President! Of course, home care workers have been the biggest sufferers in this, as has been shown in this debate, but the sufferers have also been the customers when the time for them has been spent looking for parking places, and all of us, all of us, society as a whole, have been the losers here when the tax money has been spent inefficiently. In Vantaa, too, we municipal decision-makers have spent an enormous amount of time on this matter from one council term to the next, and it has always returned to the fact that nothing can be done when the Parliament does not work. And as we heard, things had already been done in Tampere, but it has been very difficult, and it was not so perfect. And now, of course, even after that, the challenges remain in the municipalities as to how this will be done. But I want to give warm thanks to the government, which took this matter seriously so that it can finally be dealt with. After all, it was not 13 years but less than a year when the matter was taken seriously and put to work. It is so great that this has finally been done — thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u30	Mr President! To sum up: Mr Laakso was quite right to wonder how it could take so long for a change of law to improve the world from one small piece and, above all, not really cost anything. It is very important to have practical sense, that we here, too, are looking for solutions instead of saying that this has not been done before, that this is impossible and that this causes them and those problems. It was now seen that, after all, it was possible to resolve this issue very quickly when it was found to be a state of will. And I think that your speech, Mr Laakso, was very valuable. If we do not do it together, look together for solutions to this corona crisis as well as to smaller issues in this kingdom of ours, then nothing will come of it. But when you do it together, you find solutions together, and that's how you do it. Finland can cope with the corona crisis as well as with all other challenges. Let's continue along the same path.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u31	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen said that the timing of this performance is now exceptionally good during the corona period. Unfortunately, however, this issue of parking marks is not being brought into this isolation period, because the law will only enter into force on 1 June and then the municipal decision-making process will be required in order to put it into effect in practice. But, of course, it is better late than never and it is better to get this proposal forward anyway. The need for home care is not diminishing here, it is known, the need for home care will increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-09-ps-52.u32	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Räsänen, for mentioning this on 1 June, when it will come into force. In my view, once we have approved this today in Parliament, the municipalities will probably be able to implement these things in advance, before 1.6. At least this way I could assume that there is a public will here, and in that sense there will be no violation of the law — at least I suppose so.
