ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 1/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! This proposal for Hansel concerns the fact that the regulation aims to update the tasks and legal framework of the Hansel Oy joint purchasing body in order to better respond to the digitisation of the activities of entities using Hansel services, the transparency requirements for the use of public funds and, through international joint procurement, the efforts to improve the efficiency of the contracting entity. Since Hansel and Hansel's activities have been raised here, it cannot help but wonder how these objectives will be achieved by the fact that 65 % of a company owned by the state and 35 % owned by municipalities through the Association of Local and Regional Authorities will operate in these acquisitions in such a way that 50 million purchases will be competitive as a one-off purchase. This has rightly been addressed by a group of parliamentarians under the leadership of the Christian Democrats, Peter Östman. They have asked how the opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises to take part in public procurement competitions will be realised here, and they have addressed that very appropriate question to Sirpa Paatero, the Minister for Corporate Governance. This is about the fact that the state company Hansel Oy is a socially important operator and also an important provider of the procurement law and user of the procurement law. This company is thus jointly owned by the state and the municipalities, and now they have made a huge purchase first of cleaning supplies and there is also a very large whole purchase of food. These purchases have not been divided in any way by this state-owned and municipal-owned company, but one supplier is expected to deliver everything possible in the future. And now my question is: did the committee, for example, raise this issue? The chairman of the committee, Mr Vartiainen, is also here in plenary. On the other hand, I would also like to address the question to the government of our country and to Sirpa Paatero, the Minister for Corporate Governance: how does this type of tendering work out the spirit of the procurement law, but also the basic principle and function of the company owned by the state and the municipalities? Small and medium-sized enterprises have virtually zero opportunities to compete in public procurement in this type of competition. The question is whether the objectives set for Parliament's procurement law are fulfilled, that procurement must be carried out as appropriate entities and that efforts should be made to organise them in such a way that SMEs are also able to participate equally in them. On the other hand, it must also be asked whether this type of procurement fulfils the objectives of the EU Procurement Directive, which also underscores the opportunities for SMEs to participate in competitive tendering. By the way, this procurement directive also binds Finland as an EU Member State. So now, in this huge acquisition, it is expected that the winner of the competition will be able to sell to 150 contracting entities all these products and, if not, they will not be able to participate in this competition. That is not how this system can work. In my opinion, Hansel would clearly need stronger corporate governance for domestic small and medium-sized enterprises from the government of Prime Minister Sanna Marin and Sirpa Paatero from the Minister of Corporate Governance to underline quality, underlining, where possible, domesticism or, for example, that we have products made from recycled material in Finland. Recycling, ecology — I personally feel it is extremely important that this type of company, owned jointly by the state and the municipalities, should act with exceptional responsibility in these areas. So this big 50 million-million-dollar competition is about detergents and disinfectants, cleaning equipment, personal hygiene agents, garbage bags and garbage bags, and if you can't offer them all, you won't offer anything. It makes no sense to think of the vitality of the whole country, and that is why I am also addressing the question to Mr Hoskonen, for example, when he is used to putting the whole Finnish issue on the agenda here: in what way is the government, in which you are also involved, implementing this whole country's vitality? According to the Procurement Act, procurement must therefore be organised in such a way that small and medium-sized enterprises and other entities have equal access to the tendering procedure with other tenderers. This is not what Hansel is doing at the moment, and I would like us to be able to get some answers from the government of our country today, what measures are being taken to ensure that these huge competitions are no longer seen in the future. And when the matter is open today, I hope that answers can also be heard on the basis of the debate in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the President of Estonia, Mr Põlluas, and his delegation have come to follow the plenary session. On behalf of Parliament, I would like to welcome honourable guests to our plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u5	Mr President! We have a Government proposal today regarding Hansel Oy, which provides public sector procurement services. Hansel is a non-profit limited company of which 65 % is owned by the State and 35 by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. Hansel aims to improve the efficiency of the use of public funds and to increase productivity in the procurement activity. Its task is to provide joint purchasing and procurement support activities, to maintain contracts and to provide expert and development services related to the procurement operation. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Hansel Act to enable the company to maintain and develop the supply system and to provide its customers with services for the processing and analysis of procurement data. Services improve the ability of contracting entities to develop the organisation, management and design of their procurement. Better planning of procurement reduces administrative costs and improves the efficiency of public spending. Mr President! Competition in public procurement is typically seen as a mechanical purchasing activity of contracting entities. In addition, procurement is all too often seen as a supporting function in the performance of the tasks of the authorities themselves. The potential of procurement to contribute to sustainable development objectives has still not been sufficiently identified. The annual value of public procurement in Finland is approximately EUR 35 billion, which corresponds on average to 16 per cent of GDP. On the basis of these figures, it is clear that public procurement has a huge potential for implementing environmentally, socially and economically responsible and sustainable procurement. Joint procurement is an effective means of promoting the implementation of state responsibility decisions in procurement. The large volume will enable us to influence the emergence of new types of services and guide the development of products and services in an environmentally, socially and economically sustainable direction. However, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes in its report that the great strength of the central purchasing unit, the pooling of procurement into large entities in order to achieve economies of scale, is also its weakness. Bringing an intermediate step into the procurement process may prolong the distance between the buyer and the seller of the service or product, in which case the customer’s experience will not be passed on to the service provider. Assembling procurement into large entities is also likely to favour large service providers despite the obligation to share new procurement legislation. This needs to be addressed in order to enable small and medium-sized enterprises to succeed in competitive tendering. Mr President! In order to fully achieve the objectives of the Government Programme, the procurement law needs to be reformed. The level of procurement competence and the binding nature of the procurement law for sustainable procurement and quality assessment needs to be further increased. According to the Government Programme entry, the Procurement Act will be amended to include the carbon and environmental footprint in procurement criteria in procurement contracts with significant environmental impacts. The potential need to amend the Procurement Act will also be examined in the context of the reform of social welfare and health care. The consideration of qualitative criteria must be reinforced in public tenders. The criteria for the extension of the exclusion criteria for environmental, social and labour law infringements, as well as the means to highlight corporate and tax liability, will increase the responsibility of procurement. Mr President! The changes now being presented regarding Hansel Oy's operations are necessary but will not lead to an increase in sustainable and responsible procurement. We will receive real improvements through public procurement through the reform of the procurement law. By making sustainable acquisitions, we build carbon-neutral and prosperous Finland as well as viable municipalities. Sustainable and innovative public procurement must be established. The reform of the Procurement Act must be initiated without delay.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u6	Mr President! Mr Heinonen's remarks must now be corrected at the beginning: this is something that was already asked by Mr Lundén, Mr Junnila and Mr Koponen last October.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u15	Mr President! Indeed, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy had a good expert consultation on the Hansel issue, in which the proposed updating of regulation was supported. Of course, it also saw certain elements that are not entirely unproblematic. That is something that has already been overlooked in previous speeches. With regard to Hansel’s tasks, for example, expert services have a large number of entities, which are also provided by private lawyers and consultants. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy therefore considered it problematic that a public service operator, who is given legal information on the functioning of the market, should carry out activities quite similar to those of private operators in the market. This applies in particular to procurement expert services. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also noted that the tension between Hansel's position and the legal position of private operators also contributed to the fact that Hansel was not allowed to make a profit under the law. This means either the pricing of the service on the cost-correspondence principle, which is likely to create a market failure, or the calculation of the margin added to the price of the services will be used for Hansel's other activities. The possible market disruption caused by Hansel’s activities is therefore minimised by the fact that its tasks should be interpreted as narrowly as possible, in particular with regard to expert procurement services. However, this legislation is expanding Hansel's activities. Mr President! The Government should therefore monitor the impact of the action and make the necessary changes if necessary. Mr President! Business associations have also been concerned about the extent of the entities that Hansel has put out to tender. This concern has been expressed very soon — although I understand written questions have already been raised last autumn. However, the Procurement Act is clear in this respect. Its objective is to ensure that procurement is carried out as appropriate entities. Procurement must be organised in such a way that small and medium-sized enterprises and other entities have equal access to tenders with other tenderers. EU procurements provide that if the procurement is not divided into lots, the criteria must be set out. As an important player in society, Hansel must set an example in the implementation of the procurement law. Mr President! It is therefore important to ensure that SMEs are able to take part in the competitions, for example by dividing large tenders into smaller parts. Public procurement must also operate in a fair market where companies of different sizes can operate. It will safeguard employment and low prices in the public sector, which is of course in the interests of all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u16	Mr President! Indeed, we are dealing with the Hansel legislation. In other words, there were two sets of legislation on public procurement during the last period. One was the merger between Hansel and municipal procurement and the other was the reform of the procurement law. This is a big deal. Indeed, these public procurements amount to EUR 35 billion a year, and these legislative points are missing. The legislation currently under discussion is precisely the second phase of this Hansel, which means that Hansel is now also being made an authority that can collect information. It remained a little on the table in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy last year, when there were a few points to be clarified, and it has now been concluded. This was indeed a unanimous report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. But there are duubies here, as has been said from the previous speech. Now we're gonna make a bigger purchasing unit. How, then, does it work in this field, where, just last season, we did a new procurement law: that is, that can be broken up, that can look at regional employment, that can look at environmental factors, that can look at innovation and so on? Among other things, we can negotiate in advance with supply rings. For example, food supplies can be used to determine whether seasonal products are available in nearby areas for local educational institutions, schools or care institutions. But how will this now be done within the framework of this new procurement law? One of the problems behind this is that in these public projects the municipalities have not fully adopted the new procurement law. In other words, we need to educate the municipalities: take it and its full potential. It must be acknowledged that business associations also currently have a project that advises small entrepreneurs, but also municipalities, in order to be able to make these so-called purchases in the neighbouring region. One of the problems here is that our officials are a little shy about making decisions, because there have been complaints about these draft procurement laws, and they are afraid to take these decisions with new principles. In other words, we must also encourage these officials to take decisions under the new procurement law, in which these issues have been taken into account, not just the euro, but also these various factors, and especially the innovation section which was highlighted in the last procurement law. Of course, there has also been some concern about Hansel's recent purchases in the centre. Our financial team made a statement about it last week. We hope that Hansel's procurements will not become such large units, large procurements, what is there, and it should also be the possibility for the SMEs to become involved in those procurements. Of course, we understand the scope of procurement and the field of advice, but, as is stated in this decision of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, as has already been mentioned by the representatives of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, that is to say, what kind of market Hansel, for example, comes into this advisory field, this is a bit of a contradiction when it comes to advising, being an authority and making purchases. How will we then be able to match the small purchases made by these small municipalities and even larger municipalities? Indeed, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy took a position on this point in particular that the Government should monitor the progress made and that the implementation of the new procurement law should be put into practice. Well, it's the owner's guidance that's got something to do, isn't it? With regard to all new procurement law, the municipalities and the state should be in the vanguard of taking it forward. I'm gonna raise one more perp here. Indeed, 35 billion is this acquisition. Among other things, public heating purchases for Senate properties go to significant large units, so that small applicants or heat entrepreneurs do not enter them. The only way to do this is to make consortia that are involved. And I'm sure there are consortia involved in these other acquisitions, but can small companies be involved in those consortia? I see that in terms of food, but also other public procurement, in terms of heat supply, this issue should be followed up. And it is hoped that Hansel will become what was originally sought at that time: an advisory organisation and an organisation that helps municipalities and public authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u17	Mr President! Indeed, during the previous parliamentary term, when this law on the new Hansel was enacted, I was a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and at that time we specifically recorded in the report that the new Hansel should also involve small and medium-sized enterprises in its framework contracts. Even then there were these concerns that this could become too big a business, but this was the will of Parliament and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and it was firmly recorded in the report at the time. Now, as previous speakers have pointed out in their speeches, it has become clear that Hansel has not acted in the way that the will of Parliament has been. This is indeed a sad fact, and now it seems somehow that the new Hansel company was given a certain task, but now, as it were, he is waved by a dog and the will of the legislator has not been respected. In particular, this food supply went contrary to what was hoped for in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I have here the Hilma search warrant, or, in fact, the after-notification in which Hansel declared the application for this food supply, and here it is stated that ‘the procurement will be made up of a framework arrangement,which will be chosen as a single supplier’. The size of this category is EUR 340 million, i.e. a huge supply for our food chain, and this should have included small and medium-sized enterprises, but not included. Kesko won this acquisition and tendering. This is a very sad thing, and I believe that this is where the corporate governance takes hold and in the future Hansel will return to the career that was originally his will when this company was created and will make a more positive policy for small and medium-sized enterprises and take this issue forward, so that local, smaller companies will also be able to participate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u18	At this point, I will not give you any answers. This is a unanimous motion from the committee and there are those who have been asked to speak in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u19	Mr President! We had the matter before us in the referral debate in October, but many things have changed since then and perhaps we should return to the present proposal. We have just received the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the present proposal updates Hansel Oy's tasks so that the company can maintain and develop an electronic system for the award of contracts. That's a good thing. The current Hilma system is already technically obsolete and it needs to be reformed. Possible development work will be carried out in a manner agreed between the Ministry of Finance and Hansel. Similarly, the proposal allows Hansel to participate in the implementation of international joint procurement within the meaning of the Law on Public Procurement and concessions. As noted in the proposal, we need to consider carefully which products and services are suitable for international cooperation. In addition to central government authorities, the activities of several European central purchasing bodies are directed at regional government authorities and municipalities. I believe that this point will certainly give us yet another headache in the future. The opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, where it considers it problematic in terms of competition neutrality, is that a public service operator who receives legal information on the functioning of the market is engaged in the same type of activity as private traders in the market. This applies in particular to procurement expert services. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it important for the Government to monitor closely the impact of Hansel's activities on the market for expert services and to take the necessary action if the market for expert services appears to be disrupted. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also notes that the main strength of the central purchasing unit, the composition of procurement into large entities, is also its weakness. Collecting procurement as large entities is also likely to favour large service providers, despite the obligations to distribute new procurement legislation. The public tendering of Hansel in connection with the competition for cleaning supplies is one such unfortunate example. The same competition includes cleaning agents, garbage bags, cleaning cloths, soaps, hand towels, hair conditioners, transports, brooms, etc. Thus, 150 contracting entities are involved in the procurement and only one supplier is selected. This tendering alone is worth 50 million, and unfortunately, for this size class of competition, there are no more than two or three companies in our country, and they too are often transnational companies. This tendering process is still under way, but more than 140 comments or complaints have already been received. If the economy of size is the main purpose of procurement and the price is the decisive factor, we will lose countless jobs in our country. Second of all, because we're the cheapest ones to get the best? At least I don't know that that's how it's done. It is also a question of employment and jobs. If jobs disappear in Finland, they will then go to supranational companies and companies will take the profits away. Of course, we all know in this Chamber that anyone who puts out a tender can also, to a large extent within the limits of the law, define a tendering procedure. Several competitions can be cut into smaller parts, which also ensures equality in tendering for companies of all sizes as defined by law. Mr President! We Finns want Finnish companies and communities to be able to compete in competitions. We Finns also want jobs and tax markets to remain in Finland and Finnish entrepreneurs to win competitions whenever our laws allow. Public procurement plays an important role in society: it can contribute to environmental, social and economic objectives. The development of procurement requires a stable knowledge base. The collection and publication of information will also contribute to the transparency of the public sector. Hansel, in his advertising campaigns, asserts that the best possible terms and conditions of the contract, taking into account price and quality factors — I do not know whether domesticism is involved in any way. Finnish Entrepreneurs, on the other hand, stress that the Procurement Act and common sense say that the possibilities for participation of SMEs must always be taken into account in the procurement process.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u22	Mr President! Several speakers have already drawn attention to Hansel Oy's unsatisfactory competitive practices, which do not do justice to small and medium-sized enterprises. The law amendment that enabled the merger of Hansel and KL-Kuntahanta was implemented at the end of the last parliamentary term. The main objective of the merger was to improve public procurement skills and improve cost-effectiveness. However, this must not be done by undermining the position of small and medium-sized enterprises. Execution of procurements in large entities weakens the opportunities for Finnish SMEs to participate in competitive tendering. It is therefore important to pay particular attention to: Hansel's operating culture takes into account the objective of the new procurement law, which entered into force during the last parliamentary term, that procurement must be carried out as appropriate entities. Equal access for SMEs must be ensured. This has not been achieved in recent competitions. Hansel Oy must correct its competitive practices.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u23	Mr President! Just as the representative of the Finns Party, Koponen, observed, so he and two other colleagues from the Finns Party had submitted a written question on the subject in the autumn. That's good. Although we have heard what the will of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy is in this regard, it is clear that action will be taken against the will of Parliament. At the beginning of the year, at least two examples of giant acquisitions have arisen, and these examples have raised concerns for small and medium-sized enterprises and also here in Parliament, and that is why last week I tabled a written question with two other colleagues on the same subject as the Finnish colleagues. Just as Mr Heinonen said in his own excellent speech, the state-owned Hansel Oy must set an example in applying the law and following the will of Parliament. This is what it's all about. The objective of the Procurement Act is clearly stated that procurement must be organised in such a way as to enable SMEs to participate in the tendering process, but these examples, which have been referred to, are not divided into lots, and one supplier is expected to supply the entire supply to several dozen municipalities and to the State. You heard right, that is how the purchasing unit owned by the state and the municipalities works. As far as EU procurement is concerned, the law clearly directs the division of procurement into lots. According to the experience of Finnish entrepreneurs, the use of central purchasing units has very often led to procurement being carried out in such large entities that the main objective, namely competition, arises mainly among larger operators. Ladies and gentlemen, this does not serve the Finnish SME business field. This is why we should also have a discussion with the Minister of Corporate Governance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u24	Mr President! Firstly, from this entrepreneurial point of view, representatives from Sankelo, Östman and Heinonen have made excellent contributions. This entrepreneurial perspective should always be kept on board. In a slightly broader way, another aspect of procurement concerns the Annual Report of the National Audit Office: In this report, the Agency has focused in particular on cleantech procurement, and it has to be said that there is much room for improvement in this respect. After all, during the last term of government, we had ambitious goals for cleantech, but unfortunately, according to this report, they have not been fully implemented and there is a great deal of room for development. It has been rightly said here that EUR 35 billion are public procurement as a whole, and the municipalities cover two thirds of it. Why, then, are these cleantech acquisitions not really willing to pull on the part of the municipalities, there are, among other things, such fundamental problems, such as the lack of uniform criteria — it is not known what is sustainable procurement and what is environmentally friendly procurement, which is cleantech procurement. In the absence of definitions, statistics and development are very difficult. There is a clear need for government guidance. Decisions of principle alone in themselves do not help because they are not binding on the municipalities. That is also stated here. One more thing: we have such an institution as KEINO, a centre of excellence in sustainable and innovative public procurement, and I understand that its funding will be running out in about a year, and, on the basis of the consultations with experts, it is a strong will on the part of the Audit Committee that we want to see further progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u25	Mr President! This government proposal, which has come unanimously from the Committee on Economic Affairs, is to be welcomed in itself by this renewal of the electronic systems and its haste, but, like many colleagues, I would have intervened in this exercise of Parliament's will at the moment in Hansel's work. After all, during the last term in Parliament, the Procurement Act was the subject of a reform. It was then based on the reform of the Public Procurement Directive, and both of which were explicitly based on the fact that they wanted to highlight these criteria, such as social criteria for procurement, and perhaps the most important and most important one was the so-called overall advantage, namely that the cheapest price is by no means the way in which these contracts should be made. Overall, Parliament wanted to highlight the improvement of procurement skills in public procurement, that criteria can be set in such a way that local actors can be taken into account, the SME sector can be taken into account in agriculture, for example, local production. As someone here, Mr Koskela, was saying about this domesticity, so it is not possible to make domesticism a criterion in that way, but, for example, it can be said in food purchases that a certain delivery time is set when potatoes are to be in the school pot from that farm, and then it is quite clear that the Polish potato will no longer compete when these delivery times are put on tight enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u28	Mr President! I myself was a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs and, as has been said several times here, the report was unanimous. This was mainly an electronic system for the award of contracts, but of course we also took a position on Hansel's activities in such a general way. After all, as Mr Pirttilahti said earlier, we are talking about very large amounts: 35 billion per year is a large amount of money for any organisation to spend on procurement. Here, too, Mr Honkonen raised a specific case of 340 million for one purchase, and it is far too large for all indicators to consider, among other things, how small and medium-sized enterprises can participate in these. There are also quite a few representatives here who have decided on municipal matters, and I am sure they have said that, especially at municipal level, the biggest single issue and concern for companies is how small these large acquisitions would be broken up so that they could participate in them. But, Mr President, I would like to raise one more point, and that is expert services. They are such that similar services are also provided by private lawyers and consultants, and Hansel now has a different operating position than private operators through the fact that it obtains information on the functioning of the market that others do not receive and that it has an impact on the neutrality of competition — and not only in a positive way, since it can use this information in pricing either by pricing products and services so that they correspond directly to the costs, so that the margin may then be left out in the same way as the private undertaking, or by pricing it so that the margin that it remains can be used for Hansel's other activities, to support their other functions, and also does not correspond to the situation of competitive neutrality. This is likely to cause a market failure. In particular, from this point of view, we put a sentence in this report stating that this activity will be closely monitored and, if necessary, taken action in the event of these market failures, particularly in the case of expert services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u29	Mr President! There has already been a very good debate here. In this respect, we are talking about it, but in part we are talking about it when the debate has expanded to this general position of Hansel and the way in which it organises this competition. But this is a very topical issue at the moment, and I am bringing a point of view which has actually been quite a bit on the agenda, that I fear that this world is going a little so that, now that the public sector situation, both the local and the state finances, is really weak, then it is a great temptation to take the so-called low-stamped apples, i.e. by going into bigger competitions to take short-term profits. This temptation is great, and then what will come of it in the longer term? It follows that the next time it is competitive, then either we are in a monopoly situation or at least in an oligopolistic situation, when the next acquisition may be much more expensive, when the bidders are no longer so many, or it can lead to that if this kind of big player, when it is a big competition organized, wins it, then this company may subcontract it to others. But then these small companies will be put in the position of a subcontractor in vain, rather than having this competition carried out as has been said in this objective of the law, which has already been mentioned many times here, that procurement must be carried out as appropriate entities. Of course, the third potential problem in this area is what happens to these small businesses. How many small and medium-sized companies have a significant share of turnover in part of these public procurement but not in full, which may have an impact, as mentioned here, on employment and so on, on how it will affect the economy of our society as a whole, because this indirect impact may be significant. We must remember, however, that not quite half but a considerable part of all the money that runs in this society revolves around society in one way or another, in which case many companies play an important part in the activities that come through these public procurements. And as Mr Pirttila has said here and someone else has said that it is all about 35 billion, which amounts to money, it is certainly not the same as the way in which it has been handled. However, I would like to pay tribute to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for the fact that at the end of this report it was recorded that this issue is being monitored and, if necessary, also required by law, and this is also the message which is very important for the Minister responsible for corporate governance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u30	Mr President! As has been mentioned many times, there is at least EUR 35 billion of tax money in public procurement. Small and medium-sized enterprises operating across Finland must be allowed to trade in this billion-dollar market. It is therefore very important for domestic small and medium-sized enterprises to be able to compete for public procurement and to trade with the public sector. Companies operating in regions and regions must be able to offer goods and services to municipalities and the state in the purchases made by Hansel. The best way to do this is to split up procurement. Even a small company will then have the opportunity and capacity to offer goods and services to the public sector. Hansel is a company owned by the state and municipalities, which is a very large operator and supplier. It must therefore also set a specific example in allowing small businesses to trade with the public sector. For example, small companies must be able to submit a partial offer to Hansel's procurement. Municipalities and provinces benefit from the fact that the acquirer — in this case Hansel — takes into account SMEs. Companies often employ people in the region and grow as they gain trade with the public sector. This strengthens the finances and vitality of municipalities. It is good that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy requires the government to monitor closely the impact of Hansel's activities. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes — rightly — that the collection of procurement into large entities is also likely to favour large service providers. The main point is that these mammoth procurements now on display would be divided into sub-divisions, for example, by product groups and by region. Mr President! The objective of the Procurement Act is clearly stated that SMEs must be able to compete equally with other providers. The law also directs the placing of large contracts above the EU thresholds in parts. The law and the will of Parliament must be respected in all procurements. As the owner, the State must direct Hansel in such a way that Hansel takes into account SMEs in all its procurements. Hansel must carry out his procurement in such a way that it does not exclude small and medium-sized enterprises across the country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u31	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Heino for his kind words and for his encouraging speech at the beginning of this debate. Report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy now under discussion Of course, as far as Hansel is concerned, I think it is timely, and in particular it is made up of this great final competition, which was huge in its size. It is almost possible to say that, when Hansel has made this invitation to tender, certainly every expert in Hansel knew that small companies were not involved in this, and this has clearly been done in breach of the procurement law. In an appropriate way, tenders must be requested and there is only one purpose here: to get one operator selected and everyone else out of the market. At times like these, it makes no sense to me why a public, state and municipal purchasing company is acting so one-eyedly. This is extremely difficult to understand. I mean, it's also a food safety thing. For example, when purchases are made, where is the quality of the raw materials to be procured and where does it come from? There is no monitoring system where everything can be checked. What kind of stuff goes with the offers? No one knows that. And another thing that amazes me when we are living in this age of spreading diseases: Why does a government and municipal purchasing company operate in this way? This paralyses the ability of local operators to produce certain products, because no one will deliver those products when you know that the market is no longer accessible and when the calls for tenders go this way. In other words, I would like to stress, Mr President, that the invitation to tender is the answer to this game — the means by which the call for tenders is made. The invitation to tender may also be made by Hansel by means of the involvement of local, small enterprises, [Base Finns Group : Yes! ] I remember that in my municipality of Ilomants, the local bookstore delivered the books to schools when I went to high school and the so-called joint school, as was said then, that is, today’s upper secondary school and then upper secondary school. The bookstore delivered the books directly, each student received their own books as a package, and that was it. Then, when this was put out for competition, a company such as Hansel — or whatever the organization was — submitted this same book package. I remember that Friday night when I was jogging last night. The rain was impossible on autumn night, but the local transport company delivered that big container directly to the truck’s crane in the middle of the school’s yard in the rain. I ran immediately to the janitor to get the tractor on and the front loader to move this particular load of records under the roof, that it would not suck itself full of water during the weekend. So you can say that this is a very concrete example of how competition should not work and how the customer, in this case a municipal citizen, is treated. I hope, Mr President, that Parliament will react to this in some way. At least in the next legislative period, the reports must be written completely in such a way that Hansel will not be able to do this. Making competitive tendering right, splitting up works and tenders into small parts, even if regionally or even municipally, would be the right way to do so. This same phenomenon is clearly visible in two other areas. Mr President, there are two parallels. The second is that when road contracts are put out for competition on a lower road network, for example, one large company takes over its tendering by making an offer when the tender has been made in such a way that small ones are unable to offer. After that, the company in question will inject approximately 10% of that amount of money into its balance sheet, and 90 percent will take care of you, and then the level will be whatever happens. It is incomprehensible at a time when everything should be able to handle locally. I have made many proposals on how to deal with this, but it does not go to the state operator in any way. The same applies to many other forms of competition that the State does. I'm not going to list everyone. Take, for example, this Senate property, which has succeeded in doing so, that in rural municipalities a state actor pays up to three times the rent compared to what the local rent level of a municipality is. Do you think the competition has gone right? Or do you think the government's actions have gone right for the taxpayer? And this is what we here in Parliament accept with clear eyes. Sometimes you take bile, but it's okay. It's a personal problem. But in any case, Mr President, if we continue to support such Hanseles and Senate buildings or some other centralized organisations of this kind, then we will at the same time take a huge risk, which is precisely about food safety and security of supply — it concerns the safety of Finns extremely much. For example, food deliveries: When a big reporter wins the competition, what do we get? No one knows that. But if it came from a local journalist, certainly quality would be excellent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u33	Mr President! The present case therefore concerns the updating of Hansel Oy's tasks so that the company can maintain and develop an electronic system for the award of contracts. The motion is to be supported and, as has been said several times, the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is unanimous. However, in this debate on Hansel, several speakers have already drawn attention to a point that I would like to address myself. It is therefore a question of Hansel's operating culture and the practical implementation of competitive tendering in a way that should also take into account the opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in competitive tendering. Many of you have already said that the will of the legislator and the spirit of the procurement law in this respect have not always been fully realised, and that is why particular attention must now be paid to this. It's important, isn't it? Indeed, the volume of public procurement in Finland is around EUR 35 billion per year, and Hansel's competitive bidding alone is well over EUR 2 billion. It is therefore a matter of considerable scale, and that is why SMEs must be able to participate in tendering and procurement. Mr President! In line with the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I would also like to say that the report pays particular attention to the expert services provided by Hansel, which are also provided by private consulting and expert organisations. As Mr Kauma said earlier, this, if wrongly implemented, could cause market failures. Therefore, the role and scope of Hansel’s activities in such a business must be given particular attention in order not to distort the functioning of the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u34	Mr President! As an inexperienced Member of Parliament, I cannot help but wonder how such a matter can still be in the debate. In my opinion, such problems should have remained in the 70s or 80s, no later than the 90s. We have been living in the 21st century for 20 years now, and we still have such problems in it, that we cannot get them to compete properly. The situation is that, first of all, the fact that it goes to one operator does not guarantee that it even has the cheapest price, but quite often, as a result, it only increases the price because there are no real competitions. If there are even one or two or three bidders, they know exactly that there is no competition, and it may even have been a matter of agreeing that you should take that, then I will take this. These large procurements still have the problem, which is very rarely said that the bigger the acquisition, the bigger the incentive for corruption. If they get really huge, then the corruption — and even the corruption, or the same thing — is already an opportunity when you actually put money into the job when it's so huge the pot we're talking about. If I was in any way in the government, I would put a lot of pressure on this. Especially if the government had a Minister of Ownership from our own group, I would probably be there behind the door almost daily pressing on the back of the neck that something needs to be done about it now. I think that, as Mr Hoskonen has just said, yes, there is. At Hansel, I'm sure everyone knows that this kind of competition should not even be made. And I believe that now the Minister of Corporate Governance should go and investigate this case in its entirety and call for the right people to work there at the moment, because the situation is that no such tenders can actually be accepted in 2020. It is really bad management from both Hansel's chiefs and our government that such things are not disciplined. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u35	Mr President! I am a little guilty of this, I did not listen carefully to this debate. I am a member of the Board of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities and a member of the Bureau of the Board of Directors of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, which is the Board of Directors of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities Holding Oy, and one of the members of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities was KL-contracting Ltd. In the municipal union it was found that the KL acquisitions The company is a very small and relatively weak player in this market, and therefore we started to look for an alternative model for it, and the point was that the combination with the state-owned and controlled Hansel Oy is an alternative to a strong purchasing company for the public sector, which then manages both the state and the municipalities. After all, it is voluntary for municipalities to be a customer here, both before and now, but many municipalities have given their purchases to this company. When this merger, the integration of Hansel and KL acquisitions, was considered, then we had a strong debate about the risk that the old procurement policy of the state Hansel — when it is much bigger and stronger — will also cover local government procurement, i.e. local government procurement will remain there as if in a smaller role, and these traditional government procurement principles will overpower. And now we have seen that, unfortunately, this has happened. This was also provided for in the Association Agreement, and the new Hansel Board also has three members from the State and two members from the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, and they will, of course, monitor the interests of the municipalities, that the municipalities should be taken into account by the company. It is quite different for a country with very few large units, as it were as Hansel's client, to have a huge number of municipalities. And it was certainly not easy to coordinate these policies, and so it has come to light the situation that has emerged from this debate that procurement has been far too large, and that has been the case, as has been well pointed out here by representatives such as Koskela and Koponen and Lundé, for example, that SMEs, small businesses, local operators have been left completely to lick their hands. This is by no means an acceptable situation. When this came to light a while ago, we immediately intervened in the board of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, and from there the representatives of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities were given a code of conduct in the Hansel Board, and I expect the State Minister for Ownership Guidance to act in the same way as the State Minister for Ownership Guidance, i.e. clear limits on how to act and, above all, to act in accordance with the will shown by the law and by Parliament. There's been a break from this. I assume that the situation is now about to be corrected, but indeed, Minister, if you hear this or if you are in the process of following this debate in any way, then this issue must be taken seriously. Entrepreneurs are on the right track, we are on the right track. Congressman Satonen told me this monopolistic or oligarch... from an oligopoly point of view — I think the words are confused — and they are serious and very important in economic terms. I believe that the message is moving forward and, for my part, at least in the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, I will bring it up again, that it will be followed up there, and it will also be addressed so that this cannot happen. On the other hand, we know from the other side of the pressure that local government finances are experiencing infinitely serious difficulties. Even municipalities are happy to look everywhere for savings, and one is, of course, in terms of procurement, but is this procedure reasonable, long-term and local-stimulating, what has happened now, that is certainly not the case, and that is why a change is needed to be made more precise.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u36	Mr President! All in all, there has now been a good debate on procurement and, of course, this debate has now been extended quite a bit beyond the two articles in those terms, but quite rightly so. However, I think that the revised procurement law in the previous period also allows a lot of things to happen if they are to be properly competitive and to support local operators by splitting up procurement. We have a problem with the fact that we have too long contracts and too large supply rings are being piled up. This is the responsibility of the municipalities and provinces and, of course, of these even bigger supply rings. Mr Hoskonen's time well described, for example, maintenance contracts, which are done in that area for municipalities and regions, that in practice SMEs are not in a position to participate in them at all. At best, the contractor, the single large player who wins its competition, takes off a 10-50% slice of it, and then the subcontractors and other operators within its acquisition, for their part, are looking for it and then pulls it tight. I understand that, as from the point of view of public finances and local authorities, these procurement procedures are all right in themselves, but all in all, these procurement procedures also have a terrible role to play in terms of the economy and employment and SMEs, and I believe that this is the first concern. If we have the regional and regional players organized, whether they are second or unable to offer in these procurement contests, then I think that this is the main point and the biggest topic. Of course, we can look in the mirror ourselves, even though these procurement procedures are outside democracy today. There used to be procurement boards and so forth, and now it is just a city council that deals with complaints or how it is organised in which municipality and province. These procurements have, in a way, been outsourced outside democracy. Is that a good thing or a bad thing, so there may be many opinions about it from the point of view of guidance. A good debate, and I agree with Mr Heinonen, or who said that perhaps at some point this procurement law should be brought back to this Chamber with these problems for discussion and review.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u37	Mr President! In addition to what I have just said, I would like to emphasise the importance of security of supply at a time like this. I cannot understand the arguments of such competitions, which Hansel has now made, although, as Mr Kiviranta rightly pointed out in his own speech, the law has clearly stated this principle of appropriateness, which is enshrined in the law and in the law's explanatory statement. Yes, look, as the world goes toward the crises, there seems to be nothing we can do about it now. Hopefully, nothing more serious will come from there now, but such centralised actors when they get in trouble, and then the whole country will be in trouble. And then, after a deal has been made, it must be followed. And whether they must then be dismantled by crisis legislation or by other legislation, when the contract law, when the contract is concluded, must be respected and there will be no deliveries. But the locals would be able to deliver it, even in foods, to deliver lightly. There wouldn't be a problem. However, in Finland, for example, agriculture is still practised throughout the country and deliveries can be arranged. But this is not possible only after these absurd arrangements. In other words, from the point of view of this security of supply, this issue needs to be reconsidered very seriously by Parliament and as soon as possible. The second is this climate policy. Even here, when those things are being driven around the world, where they come from, there is certainly no justification for climate policy why this should be a good system. This doesn't make any sense at all. Thirdly, this quality, the quality of goods. We drive stuff when and where it hurts. Some will probably remain in the corners of the warehouse, and then they will take the children to the school to eat those food supplies. Is this right, too? Sometimes I am so angry that I cannot understand why such arrangements have gone through in this country — in many other matters, such as these road issues. There is a solution, it is cheaper, but it must not be done. And when you go somewhere with a government official, they're gonna punch you in the paper to make this work. When I had to remodel the shock absorber myself in my car, it didn't bother me, but it just had to be done. But if there is a solution to that too, and it is cheaper, why can't the Finnish state do it? Well, with this centralised system of government that everything is decided here and makes no sense in the provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u45	Mr President! I would like to thank colleagues for their good withdrawals and speeches in this regard. As far as the government itself is concerned, the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is concerned, in my view, with certain concerns about this proposal, and in this case too, of course, it is necessary to monitor that the spirit of the law is maintained in its implementation. And, as many others have pointed out, it is important that we have genuine competition and it is vital that SMEs be able to participate fully in public procurement and have the conditions for success in it. So generally, it is a great thing that this subject raises so much debate here. Public procurement is an important and important exercise of power. On the other hand, well done, they produce economic efficiency, cost savings for our public sector. It's a good value in itself. On the other hand, they make it possible to promote a wider overall benefit for society, for example in terms of the development of the industrial structure or in terms of environmental protection, climate objectives or security of supply. After all, it is often a question of balancing them in the end when public procurement is carried out, and that is why it is vitally important that there is, on the one hand, legislation in order, on the other, practice. As far as the details raised here on the issue of emissions are concerned, let me say to Mr Hoskonen that, as a general rule, the production of goods causes more emissions than transport and it is therefore essential to consider what, how and how much is consumed. Of course, that logistics aspect must also be kept in that sense, but it is always worth keeping a good catch from the scale of things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u46	Mr President! During this debate, Mr Koponen raised a written question addressed to the government of Antti Rinte, who had already resigned, and then Sirpa Paatero, Minister for Corporate Governance, had responded to it, and it concerned these Hansel tenders. Yes, that answer was absolutely wonderful — giving an answer that says that everything is fine. Now that you have listened here to the representatives of the government parties from the left to the left, everyone has been updating how Hansel can act in this way. It feels like every time you go to a competition, it's just where it's easiest to go. By the way, in this public debate Hansel is always appealing to — different resources and its difficulties — and forgetting that other issues could also be raised, such as the quality of products, ecology, locality, Finnishness, etc. Such values can be raised by many different criteria to these competitions if desired. And now there will be a 50 million-dollar giant competition, and yes, Mr Hoskonen, you will be the centre of this big competition when you give this government, its owner's guidance, your support and not interfere with it. At the same time Hansel is bidding for food, which we heard here from another representative from the centre, and when we looked at it, it is four years — four years of this huge competition, and the acquisition goes to one player. Not after that time, listen, those small players are no longer coming to that next competition. And such food competitions can include emissions, emissions from transport, and ensure that local food is also available in these, for example. Even before the beginning of this government, I believed that the centre was strongly supporting the safeguarding of local food, local production, local activities. Now, Mr President, who is in favour of this action by Hansel? Is it supported by anyone other than the Minister responsible for corporate governance in this regard, or is it also in the middle of the game — in actions but not in speeches in this Chamber? The question is, Mr Hoskonen, why has the centre now signed off on this owner's guidance and let this huge 50 million-million-dollar bidding be carried out on these detergents and papers and these and many times the bigger food competition. You would be able to intervene in this matter within the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u47	Mr President! It reminds me of a radio program in which a wise person always said at the beginning of the program that I will be giving advice during this program that you will not be able to do without. Mr Heinonen's speech had the same tone. Nevertheless, I thank him for his good advice. But with regard to this competition and the adoption of laws, as Mr Kiviranta said in his own speech, the Procurement Act specifically states that the tendering procedures should be organised in an appropriate manner. It is, indeed, a matter of ownership control, and I have not sat in that place of minister, so that I am innocent in that matter. My message has been that I will never accept such a centralized system. And whether it be this day or the coming day or another day, so I still do not accept, because the objectives mentioned here — climate policy, people’s safety, how to deliver the goods, security of supply, which I think is also mentioned in the law — must be achieved. As far as Mr Harjante's point of view is concerned, transport does not bring much: this is the strange way of thinking, which Mr Harjanne, in particular, has often pointed out that the goods can be transported from other parts of the world but cannot be used from home. This is best reflected in energy policy that a mixture of wood and peat cannot be used, but the alternative is always foreign coal, natural gas and something else. This is the kind of thinking I can't possibly understand that it is supposed to serve Finland. We are going to such a time when national, self-sufficiency in raw materials is a huge wealth for the nation. But there is a tremendous amount of work being done in this house to prevent the use of riches. Are we driving coal from Vorkuta, Russia, or taking natural gas or taking foreign food to Finland because of competitive tendering? Decisions have been made to stop using some raw material, but it is worth considering what is realism. When it is a cold day and domestic energy is not available, it is always a foreign option. Always. We don't have a choice. I would hope that, when these issues are dealt with, we will at least be honest with ourselves that we recognise the framework conditions on which we are playing. Today, the world is heading towards a crisis, and we can't help it. In international politics — the UN, the EU, many other institutions — Finland has done a commendable job to promote peace, security and prosperity throughout the world, but we cannot influence it alone. Just as much as we alone cannot solve the fate of climate change, although many seem to be trying to do so. We have done our part well, and we will continue along the same lines, but I think we have a little bit of domestic affairs to deal with here too, and I hope that we will find a solution very quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u48	Mr President! It is very difficult to improve Mr Hoskosen's views. I'll sign them to a very large extent. But there's one thing I'm a little bit different about. When the price was mentioned a moment ago, unfortunately, in these competitions that price has now become quite a determining factor. I know that many times we municipal decision-makers, who have been making these decisions, have chosen the cheapest, and then it has happened as it has happened, so it has been discovered in a few moments that the deliveries have not worked as agreed or that some cleaning work has not met the criteria set for it. Then we should look a little further and come to this subject, which I now want to open up with a few words: we are not in control of competition, unfortunately, and yet we know that the procurement law gives the possibility that the competitionr very much determines the steps that are going to take. To Mrs Essayah, I would like to say that of course I understand that Finns must not be put before other countries. This was not the case, but it is precisely by means of the competition that we can define it, make it, divide it into pieces or, under certain conditions, put it in such a way that it actually works in the area where we live and are in. To this Hansel, it still seems that this price has really been the dominant factor and the cheapest to win and the big volume that you are looking for, and as you have already asked, because we have indeed got the cheapest of the best. Yes, we should have the courage and the skills in this Chamber, so that we can really make laws that take this country forward rather than backward. This big question, which now arises in this new proposal, is that now that we are taking these decisions in the EU, it will disappear from us even more, that is to say, once we have been able to do small things here so far, we will be doing big big things and deciding somewhere else. Indeed, the bad times are here if we do not make new changes to what is now being presented. That is why, in my own speech, I concluded that we must also have the resources to make the necessary changes to the legislation in this Chamber later on. Now, on the basis of this debate, which has taken place today, I see that the vast majority are behind the fact that this is a matter of concern to us as it is, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u49	Mr. Al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u50	Mr President! As a human being in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I have also taken note of this legislation relating to Hansel and Hansel, and I would like to read in Hansel's papers a few things which answer a great many of the questions raised today. ‘Hansel is intended to serve the whole public It will enable more professional and efficient public procurement. This will not only save and provide better products and services, but can also use procurement, for example, to reduce emissions and promote workers' rights in high-risk countries." That is one reason. ‘Involvementinresponsible acquisitionspromoting the success of responsible domesticcompetences. “ So how can this be done? This document states: ‘We understand that companies are concerned about the possibility of theirreform to participate incompetitions. However, the purpose of the change is to ensure that companies are better able to participate in the competitions, as municipalities, for example, now have the opportunity to use Hansel's professionals in the competitions. It is also possible for Hansel to split the competitions into lots, either by product or by region, serving different areas. This will guarantee the widest possible participation of small and medium-sized enterprises.’ Finally, ‘The Ministry of Finance and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities is in the process of launching the It also aims to promote the functioning of the market and the implementation of competitive tendering, taking into account the perspective of small and medium-sized enterprises.’ Thus, in this latter project, Finnish Entrepreneurs and many companies are involved. So this is where lobbying takes place, and these competition issues have been taken into account in Hansel, and probably there is and will be room for regulation. So maybe this kind of speaking on behalf of Hansel would be important and timely at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u51	Mr President! As I said earlier, these procurement problems are well known to us all, but perhaps here a little black image of Hansel's role has been built and Mr Al-Tae's speech was good. I will now read here about this much - spoken - about competition for sanitation supplies: In practice, all participants are Finnish SMEs — mainly in the black picture discussed in this Chamber. In my opinion, Hansel's role is also that of the developer and, in a way, the employer's role is the most important. This is a matter for municipalities and then for joint municipal authorities and regions in what way and whether they will then go with this company. There is... — I was trying to find the owner base, all in all the percentages are known, but who is there at the moment, I did not quickly find on that page.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u52	Mr President! Now, I am no longer surprised that this procurement law business has gone so wrong if Mr Al-Taee just read on paper what fine words have been made, what a plan is, and yet it has clearly become clear in this Chamber that Hansel has not acted as it is written on the paper, how they should act. I do not see how anyone can justify Hansel’s recent activities by telling me what goals are. Yes, I understand, it is in many other things to stare at what is written on paper. After all, we have a plan to halve our transport emissions in ten years, and we can write something there, but quite another thing is what we do and how we finish it. Now Hansel has done a handsome piece of jewelry, as everyone else always does, whatever it is, but if you don't do it the way you're supposed to do it yourself, that's what we're criticising, and it's something we have to deal with, because otherwise it's going to go down the drain, because there's a whole bunch of these examples that don't make any sense. At the moment, we are paying extra for society's money in many competitions. Mr Hoskonen spoke earlier about road maintenance, and we are paying an additional cost of about 10% all the time because of it — I am sure Mr Hoskonen knows the situation, but I can make it clear — that when there is a major competition in a particular area, even if there is plowing and so on, the big player who wins it takes a 10% slice, and the job is done by those who have not even been able to offer it. It is completely absurd that the small entrepreneur cannot even offer who will do it. I don't give a name to the companies that always win those jobs and then divide them into small ones, and the payment terms are actually between two and three months. So those entrepreneurs have to get at their best for three months fuel, wages, equipment, all this kind of stuff, before they get to put even a bill on them for the first time. I'm sure they'd really do that to the government or the government for a little less money.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u53	Mr President! First of all, account must be taken of the fact that Mr Laakso understands these things and his concern is genuine. That concern is based on the fact that if we are really going to save society’s money, it will also be done right. And this is a shared concern. I believe that the law is being implemented in Hansel as it should be, and if not, there will always be consequences. There is also much room for manoeuvre here and there is much to learn, and that is why I feel that this debate in this Chamber has certainly been a good signal for Hansel and also for the Minister of Steering, and on this basis it is good to continue and try to implement these things listed in the fine words correctly on behalf of all of us Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u54	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u55	Mr President! I am raising the same issue as last spring when we discussed the previous year's report on the supervision of party funding. This raises these conditions and party law and how they should be further interlinked — for example, the very way in which grants are transferred to limited companies and then the corresponding importance in terms of business subsidies and value added tax. It is also stated here that, in circumstances of interpretation, it is advisable for grants to public limited companies and foundations not to be subject to state aid but to other funding from the party. So we have situations where the parties act differently, and then the money comes from and where it has been spent may also be hidden. In other words, some parties use limited companies, organise party seminars or other events, others run this completely through parties. It is also stated here that, in the opinion of the Audit Office, the terminology of the State Aid Decision must be clarified so that the use and allocation of the grant is still understood unambiguously and that the State Aid Accounts are comparable. In other words, there is room for improvement in practice and reporting. I personally believe that it is a matter of not always knowing and perhaps seeing what kind of declaration it should be, that is to say improving it, because, above all, this openness improves people's confidence in democracy and decision-making. In Finland, party support and this whole system is open and progressive compared to many other countries, that we know as a general rule where the money comes from and how it is spent. This democratic aspect will then also be highlighted when it is possible to trace where this money came from and where it has been spent. Progress has been made in this legislation, but much remains to be done. Now good news came from the Ministry of Justice a few weeks ago that a parliamentary working party has been appointed to clarify the need for the development of the electoral law, the party law and the electoral funding law and, if necessary, the legislation on other political activities, and thus to make the necessary amendments. I hope that there will now be solutions to these issues which this report raises. To this end, Mr President, I would also like to emphasise both party law and party funding in relation to the electoral funding law and their links. I am going to submit a bill today to amend the candidate's electoral funding law in such a way that foreign support for the election campaign can no longer be received from a private individual. This has also come up in this House, and I personally feel that transparency in election funding is a key element in the possibility of assessing the independence of parliamentarians and, above all, this independence in these times is emphasised in relation to foreign powers. For example, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has raised the issue of foreign participation in elections in other countries. Financing from foreign sources in elections is a serious issue for transparency and it is difficult to determine the origin of foreign funding received from private individuals. In other words, I hope that this bill will also receive a proper hearing and that the Justice Department's working group will also take a position on whether the law can be amended in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u56	Mr President! The previous speaker, Mr Ovaska, is probably on the same page as I am, we have a common history of that party activity. First of all, it is good to note that transparency in state-funded activities is an essential element in party funding, and in that sense it is very important to deal with this report here. Recently, however, there has been a debate about the fact that party activity in general has started to focus more on media agencies, to come out of that political role, but it does place even more emphasis on financial management. This report highlights, among other things, up-to-date notifications and deadlines for their submission, or shortcomings in the deadlines for their submission. I do not want to believe that any party has a question of bad will or of not wanting to announce it, but simply does not have the resources to deal with it. So there is also great concern about these small parties, which have even fewer resources than we in Parliament. These agreements for parties and those benefiting from state aid through them are also something to which attention should be paid. It is a strange situation that parties, district organisations and associations, which are stable players from year to year, conclude separate agreements each year. However, district and local associations operate very far from a hobby base, and there are changes in people every year and so forth. It would be worth considering whether the party could cover the parties and associations as a whole and clearly play the role of the recipient of its State aid. Of course, public announcements should be made as always. But there should also be serious consideration of what kind of changes to the party law are needed, precisely what the representative needs. Ovaska also raised these conflicts in the grant decisions, the conflicts in their terms compared to the party law. Such ambiguities do not strengthen the transparency that is now being sought here: it is open to interpretation whether, according to party law, support can be given to foundations and other associations in accordance with the grant decision. So, really, we have to finally do something about things. Such transparency is a great thing — says a person who has served as party secretary in a party whose financial statements state ‘horse expenses’.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u57	Mr President! I should like to thank the previous colleagues who have made excellent speeches and have also attracted interest in the horse's expenses, which must certainly be looked at. The party support as a whole is, of course, part of this democracy and democracy, and in that sense Mr Ovaska's balanced speech, which particularly focused on transparency, was welcome. Democracy is as strong as we can maintain it here and, on the other hand, as open as the democrats think it is. And I think that openness is all there is to it. This working group, which is now considering the whole of electoral law, party law and electoral funding, is important because they are very closely linked, and I agree with Mr Ovaska's view that we should also have a degree of resilience to external influence, foreign influence or, for example, the influence of a multinational company. And this electoral influence, which undoubtedly includes election funding, must be better controlled, more transparent and we should have the opportunity to monitor where the money flows come from not only to the party but also to parliamentarians and local politicians. It is precisely the question of how democracy is to be implemented, how it is to be monitored, and I am pleased that here the real experts have just made excellent, balanced speeches. And I must say that Mr Ovaska's bill is so brilliant that I think I can still sign it here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u58	Thank you, Mr Könttä, for your support. At the same time, I would like to express my support for Mr Slunga-Poutsalo's very strong emphasis on this treaty ramba, precisely that what is done with the party in relation to the circles in relation to the others. After all, it is absurd in itself that this basic activity should then continue to be hindered. In other words, transparency must be the starting point, but I also see that, after that, the ease and ease of exchange of this information, including the information received by the Inspectorate, will also be able to make and follow electronic declarations. And what has now emerged since the elections: how can we improve the fact that, when we have an inspection office, then we have a tax agent and a lot of others, so that this information, when various lotteries and others, for example, are organised in the elections, can easily be made available from the same places, and at the same time also be informed — because there are a lot of different authorities that are looking at them — that they are open, but then, whether it is a candidate or a party, it is quite a knot with these various reports. It may also need to be clarified.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u59	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. — First signatory of the initiative, Mr Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u60	Mr President! The purpose of this bill is to criminalise forced marriages by means of separate articles of criminal law and to enable the annulment of forced marriage on application. Two new paragraphs would be added to Chapter 25 of the Criminal Code. The first of these would mean that if the threat of violence, the abuse of liberty, undue pressure or any other unlawful conduct were to force the other to marry, it could give you a minimum of 4 months and a maximum of 6 years of imprisonment. According to the second paragraph, it would be to lure another country into marriage for the purpose of coercion. This, on the other hand, could be punishable by a fine or imprisonment of up to two years. In addition, Article 19 of the Marriage Act provides: A new article would be added to allow marriage to be declared null and void on application in the event of forced marriage. Mr President! Forced marriage is a marriage to which at least one of the parties has not given their free and full consent. The association can also refer, for example, to a religious marriage that has not been drawn up in accordance with Finnish law and is thus not recognised as an official marriage in Finland. Forced marriage has been defined as a violation of human rights in a number of international human rights treaties, such as the UN Convention on Women's Rights and the Istanbul Convention. Finland ratified the Istanbul Convention in 2015. In Finland, forced marriage can become a criminal offence under the current legislation as a trafficking in human beings, as a serious trafficking in human beings or as a coercion. The punishment is not only actual coercion, but also extradition, transportation, reception and accommodation for forced marriage. Mr President! However, unfortunately, current legislation is not enough, because our legislation on trafficking in human beings currently does not cover all forms of forced marriage. Another key reason is that forced marriage is a crime of the plaintiff, i.e. it is the responsibility of the forced marriage victim to initiate the criminal process. In such cases, prosecution is required by the plaintiff or, for example, by the fact that a very important public interest requires prosecution. For a vulnerable victim of forced marriage, this may be impossible because the threshold indicates that he has been the victim of forced marriage is high. The threshold for reporting forced marriage is also high because the protection of victims of violence in Finland in general is not sufficiently effective, and Finland has received comments from international institutions. The victims of community violence, such as honour violence, are particularly badly protected. In order both to punish the perpetrator and to protect the victims more effectively, the criminal code must be specified. Mr President! In many European countries, forced marriage has already been explicitly criminalised: Norway 2003, Austria 2006, Belgium 2007, Denmark 2008, Germany 2011, Switzerland 2013 and Sweden and the United Kingdom 2014, each with somewhat different legislative technical solutions. The typical situation in Finland is that a girl with an immigrant background is married to a man living abroad. This can happen, for example, on a holiday trip to the original home of a girl’s parent or parents. It has been found that forced marriage may be based on, for example, obtaining a residence permit. At worst, it's about trafficking in human beings. Forced marriages are increasingly visible in the work of public authorities and NGOs. The six-monthly review of the system of assistance to victims of trafficking in human beings last year shows that in the first half of the year, 12 victims of trafficking in human beings related to forced marriage had been found. This is probably just the tip of the iceberg because forced marriage is challenging to identify. General forms of trafficking in human beings may occur in conjunction with other criminal investigations, but forced marriages are usually not manifested to the police except when reported by other actors. It is also difficult to obtain sufficient evidence. Mr President! In spring 2019, Parliament repealed the provision on marriage law that the Ministry of Justice may, for a special reason, have authorised a person under 18 years of age to marry. However, this means of preventing forced marriages are not sufficiently effective, as in many cases girls are taken abroad for forced marriage. Forced marriage is a form of sexual violence, often accompanied by threats and pressures, and it applies above all to young women and girls, although it may also involve boys and men. Low social status, pressure on the family or community, violence or its threat, and socially and economically dependent status are all things that can expose a person to forced marriage and prevent divorce. Forced marriages can thus be seen as one form of honor violence. Under current law, forced marriages are dissolved through divorce. This situation is governed, for example, by the law on divorces in relation to the division of property and the legal status of potential children, but it must also be possible, given the particular nature of forced marriage, to annul them. By enabling annulment, the State would recognise that there has been an injustice in the case of those forced to marry and that his fundamental and human rights have been violated. Cancellations should be possible without undue administrative or financial burdens. This has been stated, among other things, in Articles 32 and 37 of the so-called Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence and Domestic Violence against Women. The best interests of potential children should be taken into account in the annulment of forced marriage. However, once the proposed law enters into force, there would be a time limit for annulment. It could not be taken to court after more than five years of marriage. This has been inspired by Norwegian legislation. Mr President! According to Article 22 of the Finnish Constitution, the public authorities must ensure the implementation of fundamental rights and human rights also in relations between private operators. Forced marriage itself is defined as a violation of human rights in a number of international agreements and violates a number of legally guaranteed legal rights. The Istanbul Convention deals with violence against women, the form of which is forced marriage. Article 5 of the Istanbul Agreement obliges Member States not to participate in acts of violence against women and to ensure that those acting on their behalf also do so. The same article imposes a duty of care on States to safeguard the exercise of their rights also in relations between non-state actors by taking the necessary legislative and other measures. The Council of Europe agreement to prevent violence against women obliges Finland to take measures. The clarification of legislation on the criminalisation of forced marriages would signal that Finland does not accept forced marriage. At the same time, this would send a message of value for society to communities where women are forced into marriage. In its Resolution 2233 of 2018, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe called on its Member States to ban forced marriages. In its assessment report published in September 2019, GREVIO, the body supervising the implementation of the Istanbul Agreement, called on the Finnish authorities to include in their applicable legislation the possibility of annulment, annulment or termination of a marriage by force. Mr President! By a separate criminalisation of forced marriage, the Finnish State would clearly suggest that it does not accept forced marriage. Furthermore, criminalisation would send a clear signal to victims of forced marriage that he is a victim of crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u61	Mr President! Mr Kauma has made a very important bill, which I thank him for. I myself have signed this bill. In his introduction, Mr Kauma has already very much opened up this issue. The lack of self-determination of women and girls in their bodies and fate remains one of the most flagrant flaws in our world. All over the world, 12 million girls are married underage. As Mr Kauma has already said, in the past forced marriages have been criminalised, for example, from the Nordic countries in Sweden, Norway and Denmark, and Germany and the United Kingdom have also banned forced marriages. The Istanbul Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence obliges Finland to do the same, and now is the time to really act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u62	Mr President! The criminalisation of forced marriage is justified and thanks to the author of the bill — an important initiative. The initiative proposes criminalising forced marriage. Forced marriage has been defined as a violation of human rights in several international human rights treaties, and the Convention on the Rights of the Child also states that the child must be protected against all forms of violence, indifferent treatment, abuse and sexual exploitation. In Finland, a girl is typically married to a man living abroad, and then she can come to Finland. Last season, Mr Häkkänen, as a minister, successfully drove through a legislative amendment in Parliament, in which he overturned the provision on marriage law that the Ministry of Justice may, for a special reason, authorise a person under the age of 18 to marry. This was a very important change, and this criminalisation of forced marriage would be a good continuation of it. As stated in this bill, forced marriages must be nullified without undue administrative or financial burden and by someone other than the victim himself. The clarification of legislation on forced marriages would be an important signal that no form of forced sexual treatment is acceptable. It would also be an important step forward and an act of equality from the point of view of the sexual rights of women and minors.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u63	Mr President! Forced marriages are something that does not belong in Finland at all in 2020. I believe that forced marriages should be made a world-wide history as a matter of urgency. In practice, forced marriage means a marriage in which at least one party is involved without its consent. In practice, forced marriages in Finland today often involve religious marriage, which has been entered into informally from the point of view of Finnish laws and is not recognised as an official marriage. In many cases, a girl with an immigrant background is married against her own will. These wrong marriages may even be used like a Trojan horse to obtain a residence permit from Finland. At its worst, forced marriages also involve honour violence and even trafficking in human beings. It is therefore easy for me to support Mr Kauma's initiative to propose the criminalisation of forced marriages by separate articles of criminal law, including the temptation to another country for the purpose of forced marriage and the application for annulment of forced marriage. Forced marriage has been defined as a violation of human rights in a number of international agreements. Therefore, Finland too should tighten its own line in this spirit and make it clear that forced marriages are not accepted here. Forced marriage has been criminalised in many European countries, and that is the way it should be. In Finland, forced marriage is also a crime, but the criminalisation of forced marriage as a separate crime would clarify the line. In turn, allowing for the annulment of forced marriage would be a significant step forward from the point of view of the victims. Let us hope that the government, which talks a lot about women's rights, will make concrete improvements in this area. Finally, Mr President, forced marriage is always wrong. In particular, a situation in which the victim is a minor can be defined as terrible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u64	Mr President! The bill on the criminalisation of forced marriages must be supported in itself, since it promotes the right of girls and women to self-determination. The prohibition of forced marriages also strengthens fundamental and human rights and prevents trafficking in human beings. I can comfort those who take the initiative, because this is also in the government programme. The Government Programme promises that one way or another the dissolution of forced marriages will also enable and investigate their criminalisation, and I can tell you that this work has already progressed. The Ministry of Justice has already assessed the possibilities and means for the dissolution of forced marriages, and the Ministry of Justice proposes that a new provision should be added to the marriage law instead of annulment, i.e. annulment, not annulment. The big difference in principle here is that the annulment of a marriage would give both legal and economic protection to a person forced into a marriage better than the mere annulment of a marriage. In practice, therefore, the couple would be ordered to resign, but in such a way that the person forced into marriage would retain the right to property even at the time of divorce. As has been said, this work is currently under way, and the Ministry of Justice is still looking at the clarification of the rules on the criminality of forced marriage. This work is in progress, but during this reign this has been promised to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u65	Mr President! At present, the Criminal Code does not contain a specific crime title ‘marriage by force’, but it can be sanctioned as trafficking in human beings under conditions that violate human dignity. This initiative proposes that a clause be added to the penal code to allow for the annulment of forced marriage. This is where Mr Järvinen said that there is a record of it in the Government Programme, and in my opinion, if that is the way things are going, the main thing is that progress should be made — whether it be overturning a forced marriage, the main thing is that this matter should be brought into order. One aspect of this initiative by Mr Kauma must also be taken into account in the discussion is that at the moment this is a crime of the plaintiff and, in such pressurised situations, where a person in a position under pressure has to struggle, he will certainly not go ahead with his cause. It's supposed to be a crime under official charge. Finally, the European Institute for Criminal Policy also notes in its report what has also become apparent in part in this debate that forced marriage can be aimed not only at girls but also at boys. Of course, that concern should also be kept visible. The extent of the problem is explained by an article published yesterday by MTV on its website at least, which says that last year 52 people who have been forced into marriage were admitted into the system of assistance to victims of trafficking in human beings. The number is more than twice as high as in the previous year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u66	Mr President! As has already been mentioned in this previous speech, quite precisely a year ago, as Minister of Justice, Antti Häkkänen brought the Government's proposal here to Parliament, and then Parliament unanimously removed the exemption procedure for underage marriages from Finnish law. It was a unanimous message from Parliament, a strong message that underage marriages are not part of Finnish society. We are also committed to the UN Convention on Women's Rights and the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Related and Domestic Violence. When we are committed to these agreements, it also requires that we have effective legislation and implementation. Against this background, it is quite right that the representative should: The horror brings in this bill, which criminalises forced marriages and cancels them on a separate application. Congressman Järvinen here said that you should not worry, there is this entry in the Government Programme. That does not remove our concerns, but we are waiting and with this we also want to tighten up the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, to ensure that these matters are genuinely brought into law. Although we have a ban on forced marriage in current legislation, it is not enough because it does not cover all forms of forced marriage. As Mr Kiuru has just said, it is quite clear that, in the present situation, when this is a crime of the plaintiff, how would a person who is a victim in a vulnerable position have the strength to move forward? In our control countries, in the Nordic countries, legislation is already in order. Even in Sweden, the preparation of forced marriage is punishable. In other words, legislation is important — let us assume that Mr Henriksson will bring the proposal here as soon as possible — but equally important is preventive work and awareness-raising in general. People need to have an understanding that all forced marriages are strictly forbidden.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u67	Mr President! I think Mr Kauma's bill is a very good one. For us Finns, forced marriage has become a familiar and terrifying phenomenon with the multicultural phenomenon of recent years. In Finnish society and culture, it is unacceptable, and I therefore consider this bill to be very good. Finland is a little behind in this compared to many other European countries, but better late than never. Forced marriage is an act of human dignity, and we should not allow it. The bill introduces imprisonment for forced marriage for at least 4 months and up to 6 years and criminalises the temptation to enter another country for the purpose of forced marriage. This is an important message from Finnish society that forced marriage should not be allowed in Finland. Mr Järvinen has just spoken that this is in the government programme and is already being discussed. It is very good that it is there, and I hope that this Kauman bill will tighten the debate in such a way that we can get this to Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u68	Mr President! Mr Kauma has presented us with an important initiative, which needs to be looked at very carefully. In a changing world, we are better and better able to protect small girls in particular. Yet, unfortunately, these various crimes and offences take place, both here in Finland and in the world. Such initiatives and amendments to the criminal code could prevent this kind of thing. I therefore hope that this initiative by Mr Kauma will be carefully examined and, if it can go through as such, that support will certainly come from here, but if not, then the most relevant points would go into criminal law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u69	Mr President! This is kind of the same thing as in the previous case that it seems a little crazy for a new representative to have to wrestle with this kind of thing. However, even Norway, for example, 17 years ago, has already passed this law that forced marriages of this kind cannot be made — even Sweden, which is relatively liberal in these matters, six years ago. I am surprised that we are still wringing this issue here. Of course, the fact that the government — at least the representative of the government party — promised that this would come to an end during this term of government was very clear. Hopefully it will be able to be trusted, and I think it is about time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u71	Mr President! You can count on it during this parliamentary term: this important issue will come to an end. It is quite clear that forced marriages are unacceptable. As Mr Järvinen pointed out earlier, this matter has been included in the Government Programme: ‘The obligation to settle marriages and to clarify theircrimination. “ I would like to thank Mr Kauma for taking this important initiative into account. It's a challenge to recognize a forced marriage, isn't it? However, identification is the most important thing, because without it, there is no criminal case, and forced marriage is not revealed to the police except when reported by other actors. That is also why the role of organisations between the authorities and the victims of forced marriages is important. That is what I wanted to make clear in this referral debate too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u72	The first signatory of the initiative, Mr Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u73	Mr President! I would like to thank all those who took part in the debate for the very good debate and the added value that you will bring in this referral debate when it is taken to committee. First of all, Mr Pelkonen said that there are up to 12 million girls in the world who are married underage, and when we receive information from the authorities here in Finland, that last year only 12 became known during the first six months, it does say that we are only getting the tip of the iceberg. I'm sure there's a lot more of them. Mr Laiho said that this would be a logical follow-up to the ban on underage marriages, and that is exactly what I am thinking myself. Last year's legislation on the prohibition of minor marriages does not cover all forms, such as the fact that a minor is taken abroad and married to forced marriage. Representative Elomaa said that Finland should make it clear that we do not accept this, and that is exactly what I am thinking myself: one large part of this bill is that it is a state of will shown by Finland. We do not accept this and it should also be shown in a stricter way. Mr Järvinen, as a representative of the Government Party, stated that human rights were also promoted in the Government Programme and that this ban on forced marriages would also have been recorded, but that it would not promote annulment but annulment, because it was considered that it would provide better protection for the victim in particular. I do not have a firm position on whether it should be done by annulment, annulment or dissolution, because GREVIO — a body that has taken a stand on the situation in Finland last year to monitor the implementation of the Istanbul Agreement — has pointed out that any of these three forms is possible. So it must now assess, on the basis of expert consultations, which of them best guarantees the protection of the victim’s situation and also the fact that if children were born in it, which would best protect their situation. Mr Kiuru then said that today we are dealing with a crime involving the plaintiff, and that victims who are very vulnerable are afraid to seek justice. The representative of Estonia said that the government programme is not enough for us alone, and we want the parties in the opposition to be sure that this is going to happen, and that is precisely why this bill has been taken. He also stressed the importance of preventive work, that we should also be able to do the work that did not happen in the first place, that minors should be forced to marry or that no one should be forced to marry. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u74	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u75	Mr. Speaker! There is now a bill to amend the citizenship law. The initiative has been taken by the Parliamentary Group of the Finns Party. Today, Finnish passports are distributed to foreigners like a conveyor belt. The record year in which Finnish citizenship was granted was 2017 when more than 12,000 foreign nationals permanently resident in Finland received Finnish citizenship in one year. In 2018, citizenship was granted to over 9,000 foreigners. Finnish citizenship should not be an advance gift for immigrants to try to encourage integration. Citizenship must be an indication of the adjustment that has already taken place and can be proven. In order for us to be able to be fully convinced that immigrants are law-abiding and fit into Finnish society, the requirement to obtain citizenship must be extended. During the four to five years of living under the current law, we have not yet been able to find out enough about a foreigner. A person who has received Finnish citizenship can no longer be deported even if he is guilty of crimes. According to the current Citizenship Act, the applicant for citizenship is considered to have lived in the country long enough if the last five years of continuous residence in Finland have accumulated without interruption or if the applicant has lived in Finland during different periods of time for a total of seven years after the age of 15. Five years is not a long time, and yet an exception has been included: for example, a beneficiary of international protection can obtain citizenship after four years of living in Finland. Somali is now granted Finnish citizenship more quickly than a Finnish citizen is entitled to a residence permit from Åland. The acquisition of citizenship has been facilitated in Finland over the years. In September 2011, a change in the Citizenship Act entered into force, which reduced the overall period of residence required when applying for citizenship from six to five years. As expected, the number of citizenship applications increased in 2012 and the number of accepted citizenship applications has since remained high. Now is the time to make a correction and change the law in a stricter direction. This is necessary right now for a number of reasons. I have already mentioned the law — a citizen cannot be expelled even if he is guilty of serious crimes. If we look at what is happening in Europe at the moment, when there are masses of people on the Turkish-Greek border who want to go to Europe, Finland cannot wait for the European Union to prevent this avalanche of migrants. We have to do our own thing. Finland’s current loose citizenship policy is an attractive factor for asylum seekers. Today, even when a person is granted a residence permit or citizenship, it is common practice to take a vacation in a country of origin that was allegedly too dangerous when applying for asylum. Our country faced the migration crisis in 2015, and now there is a new crisis on its way. This needs to be covered by better legislation. It is worrying that the sitting government has not taken the necessary measures. On the contrary, it seems that the government is taking harmful measures. For example, last week it was announced that asylum seekers will be given more and more legal aid from state funds in the future. In Finland, the birth rate of the majority population is falling, and the share of native-language speakers in the total population is decreasing. Population growth depends on immigration and the birth rate of immigrants. If this continues, the result will be demographic change. We can talk about the so-called population change. This process of demographic change is accelerated by the fact that a foreigner who has received citizenship can bring his or her family members to Finland. Family reunification is an important channel for immigration, and those who have acquired citizenship can therefore bring their family members without a livelihood, which will greatly accelerate family reunification. If we allow a decline in the Finnish population and, at the same time, a strong growth of foreigners, in practice, we also allow the strong growth of foreign cultures in Finland. It will affect everything over time. Above all, it jeopardises national security. Mr. Speaker! In this legislative initiative, the Finns Party proposes to tighten the conditions for obtaining citizenship so that the requirement for residence time when applying for Finnish citizenship is increased to ten years, i.e. doubled from now on. At the same time, this derogation from the Citizenship Act is repealed. If this bill were to be implemented, those who arrived as asylum seekers would no longer be privileged to, for example, work-related immigrants. All in all, it is an intolerable situation that Finnish legislation is more loose in terms of citizenship than in many other European countries. In Austria, for example, the requirement for residence time is in principle ten years, in Denmark nine years and in Germany eight years. In Denmark, marriage to a Dane may shorten the residence time requirement to six years, but it is thus longer than normal in Finland. True Finns see that Finland must ensure in its citizenship policy that a foreigner can only receive Finnish citizenship in a highly deserved way. Citizenship must also be restored because it would be an achievement and an honour for immigrants. Perhaps this would increase the appreciation of immigrants who have been granted citizenship in the eyes of the general population, when those who are law-abiding and working would receive citizenship when it would not just be given to everyone. Above all, this change in the law and tightening up would benefit the whole Finnish people, as responsible immigration policy will contribute to Finland's survival for future generations as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u76	Mr President! This representative Tavio's bill is very important, and it is able to get the message to the world that Finnish citizenship, and thus also the interests of Finnish citizens, is not easy to obtain. Many immigrants dream of coming to Finland. Even now, there are huge numbers of migrants in Turkey and Greece, many of whom aim to reach Finland. They have heard of our generous social security and the fact that you can live here with the support of the social services office for the rest of your life. The tighter we get to change the terms of citizenship, the less you try to come here with a variety of fortune hunters. Those who are able to meet the conditions of this new citizenship law have demonstrated with their own actions and long-term commitment that they have integrated into this country. Mr President! You have to earn your citizenship. There are many countries in the world where the conditions for citizenship are stricter than in Finland. So what prevents Finland from tightening the conditions for obtaining citizenship? It is now up to us as parliamentarians to what future immigration policy will become in this country. If the acquisition of Finnish citizenship were to be brought into line with the bill, I believe that anyone who wants to become a Finnish citizen would have to be well motivated from the outset to integrate into Finland. This would also help to reduce public spending, as integrationists would in principle already be more motivated than current immigrants on average. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u77	Mr President! The Finnish passport is very valuable in many ways. In addition to being one of the best travel documents in the world, Finnish citizenship guarantees its holder a huge amount of rights and by world standards a wealth of social security and commercial health care, as well as almost free education up to university level. For these reasons, among other things, there is an unfortunate tendency to obtain our country's citizenship, even on fraudulent grounds. I believe that, in relation to the granting of citizenship, we must bear in mind not only the benefits but also the individual's responsibility. When our country secures certain rights for its citizens, we must ensure that it also has the long-term opportunity to safeguard these rights. This will not happen without citizens supporting the state by, for example, working, entrepreneurship, studying, social participation or taking care of themselves and their fellow citizens. If we have more cake eaters than factors in increasing numbers, the future will be dark. In my opinion, the conditions for obtaining citizenship are too easy at the moment. In Finland, citizenship policy is lax in European terms, just as Mr Tavio said in his own speech. There is a clear need for stricter language skills and integrity. If you genuinely care about Finland, you are also prepared to learn the language and obey the law. The extension of the residence time requirement proposed in this bill and the withdrawal of certain exceptions to it are an excellent proposal on how to reduce the problems associated with the granting of citizenship. An extended so - called observation period would allow better clarity as to what kind of person the applicant really is. Mr President! In a bill signed by the Finns of Finland, the conditions for obtaining Finnish citizenship must be tightened. Finally, the unstable situation at the borders of Europe is in favour of tightening the conditions for obtaining citizenship. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u78	Mr President! The idea behind the liberal citizenship policy is that citizenship would bind people to Finnish society and promote their integration. There is no evidence that this would work in practice. The integration of people from outside the OECD is at a poor level, regardless of nationality or lack of citizenship, and the problems continue in the second generation. Citizenship should be a recognition that the individual is successfully integrated into a community called the Finns. It's not supposed to be something that's manipulating a fireman into integration. You don't appreciate things you don't have to work for. Getting to Finland is not a human right but a privilege, and the same should apply to becoming a Finnish. Citizenship gives the right to stand as a candidate and the right to vote in national elections. From this point of view, too, it is extremely important that there are only people as citizens who are committed to this country and to the people and to their interests. It is very strange if, for example, Finland’s immigration policy is about to decide on people whose loyalty is elsewhere and whose main interest is to get as many tribal brothers or fellow believers to Finland as possible. It is also problematic if large immigrant communities are formed in the country, who vote for the party that distributes the best interests of these communities to the detriment of Finnish society. A generous citizenship policy makes systematic monitoring of the integration of immigrants more difficult. Every year, some 1,000 Somalis and Iraqis become Finnish in the statistics. Their costs to public finances will become general costs. The crimes they commit turn into Finnish crimes. The possibility of sweeping the problems of immigration under the carpet is probably a key reason why people in certain circles want to insist on rapid citizenship. Mr President! The Finnish passport is one of the most valuable travel documents in the world. Against this fact, it is very strange that Finland distributes citizenship more quickly and loosely by criteria than just any other Western country. For a person who has arrived on humanitarian grounds, it is enough to live here for four years and to wait for that time not to commit serious crimes. Even language skills are flexible. For these and many other reasons, it should be made more difficult to obtain citizenship, among other things, by extending the required period of residence. That is why I support this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u79	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I was granted Finnish citizenship, perhaps about ten years ago, and it came to the point that I had already started my training path. And the army's visit was so late that I was closer to the age of 28 when it was terribly difficult for me to visit that army because I had a family and a child there. I went there anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u86	Mr President! In Finland, citizenship policy compared to many other European countries is too lax. In Austria, Denmark and Germany, for example, citizenship can only be applied for after a longer stay in the country. Finnish citizenship should not be granted to foreigners on the basis of easy criteria. Every time a foreigner applies for Finnish citizenship, one should wonder why he applies for it. It is clear that whoever is applying for Finnish citizenship is always motivated by self-interest, and so it should be. Who, for the sole benefit of another, would apply for citizenship in another country? Everyone thinks best also when applying for citizenship, and there is nothing wrong with it — unless citizenship is sought with the aim of criminal activity or the sole exploitation of well-being. Mr President! Finland must also think for its best and for its own good. The granting of Finnish citizenship to a foreigner must only be of benefit to Finland, no harm. The granting of citizenship must be based on realistic evidence that the granting of citizenship leads to a lasting good for both parties, both Finland and the future citizen. Finnish citizenship should only be earned. Citizenship should be an achievement earned by real and demonstrable integration. It is not integration that part of the language has resided in the country within a certain time limit and so on. Integration is that in addition to the above, you can support yourself and your potential family and have adapted to the Finnish way of life and culture. Finland should not be allowed to become a paradise for foreigners seeking a free way of life. Mr President! I lived with my family a few years ago in the United States. There I had a lot of contact with Finns who also have US citizenship, i.e. they had a Finnish and US passport. I heard from these dual citizens many travel-related stories about how valuable the Finnish passport is. There are a lot of countries in the world where it is difficult to go with a US passport without being treated badly or questionablely, while a Finnish passport can go to almost anywhere in the world with good pleasure. Few of us understand this fact because they have not had to travel on a passport from any other country. If Finnish citizenship is granted laxly to foreigners, it is clear that citizens are even being applied for in the hope of better and more credible travel documents. We must preserve the value and credibility of Finnish citizenship and the Finnish passport, and that can only be achieved if we do not grant Finnish citizenship on loose grounds. Mr President! I support the initiative of the Finns. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u87	Mr President! As part of a future immigration policy that is hopefully being implemented, which is clearly stricter than it is at present, the conditions for granting Finnish citizenship should be tightened considerably, and this has already been put forward by the Finns on several occasions in Parliament. This bill under discussion is a continuum for these presentations by the Finns. According to the initiative, the general requirement for residence time when applying for Finnish citizenship would be raised from the current 5 years to 10 years, and some exceptions to the residence time requirement for citizenship would be abolished. Mr President! In recent years, there has been a clear increase in the number of applications for Finnish citizenship. In 2017 more than 12,000 citizens were granted in record years and in 2018 more than 9200 were granted, and as stated in this bill, the increase in the number of citizenship applications and citizenships granted is due to a significant reduction in the conditions for obtaining citizenship in the last decade, for example in terms of residence time requirements. This amendment in the referral debate would correct the citizenship law in the same way as the legislation in place in Austria, Germany and Denmark, for example. The conditions for obtaining citizenship must not be less favourable in Finland than in other similar European countries. Mr President! In addition to extending housing time requirements, Finns have called for, for example, a substantial tightening of language requirements as a condition for obtaining citizenship. Those who receive Finnish citizenship should also have no criminal background whatsoever. I believe that the changes we have proposed to the Citizenship Act are necessary and even necessary. Finnish citizenship must be granted to a foreign applicant only in situations where the integration of the applicant into Finnish society has actually been ensured and the applicant for citizenship has a proven genuine desire to participate in the long-term construction of our society. Mr President! Like many other representatives of the People's Republic of Finland, I have signed the Tavio bill. I am in favour of this bill and I hope that it will be properly and successfully dealt with in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u88	Mr President! Increased migration and the influx of refugees have forced us to reflect on how easy it is to obtain Finnish citizenship. Currently, a beneficiary of international protection can obtain citizenship even after four years of residence in Finland, and the time is calculated from the time when he has submitted his first asylum application to Finland. This means that those who came to Finland in 2015 as asylum seekers have been able to apply for Finnish citizenship already in 2019. Furthermore, when we can see that integration has not always been very successful, it seems unreasonable to give citizenship to a person who does not know the Finnish language properly and has not adapted to Finnish society. I support this bill. Finnish citizenship must be a reward for integration and commitment to the Finnish social system. In order to obtain Finnish citizenship, I believe that it is justified to call for a longer continuous residence in exactly the same way and on the grounds set out in this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u89	Mr President! First, I would answer Mr Al-Taele that it is possible to obtain a residence permit in Finland even though there is a criminal record. Those countries which are subject to a return ban will then be granted temporary residence permits. So this idea of yours may not have been quite the right one. Secondly, I would like to comment on this when you said that some people want to come to Finland for a better life: I am happy to listen to this speech because it tells us that we have something to do with social security systems and integration if people get there when they want to work. Mr President! I was reading the Finnish Citizenship Act today, and I must say that the head of the Foreign Affairs Office of the Ministry of the Interior Police, the late Eila Kännö, would certainly turn to her grave when she read today's Immigration Act and the Citizenship Act and these criteria. This bill by Mr Tavio is an excellent and good start to the change that our citizenship law needs. There's something else to fix. The next step is to tighten up the demand for language skills. At the moment, language skills can be demonstrated by means of a comprehensive school emission certificate and, as we have seen and heard from the airport, unfortunately, there are currently certificates available without sufficient knowledge of Finnish. Then there is this income requirement: It is completely incomprehensible that in one country it is enough to include a reliable statement of income in a citizenship application, and in the case of Finland this means that the paper applied for from Kela is sufficient for this. It is incomprehensible that Finland does not require that you even work in this country, but that you can obtain citizenship in this way. Then the requirement of integrity is absolutely essential, which must be strengthened in this country, because we now unfortunately have a situation where, for example, terrorist travelers, who are dual citizens, cannot take Finnish citizenship away. There is room for repair here, and in addition to that, I would like to say that the Government has given 20 years ago. February this kind of sexual crime prevention and prevention programme, which in fact highlights the fact that we should have citizenship tests and citizenship for several years of study or work history. These are the least that can be done at this point. Finally, I would like to say that if something should be protected, it is a Finnish passport, which is a highly valued travel document in the world. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u90	Mr President! We had a report on the integration of immigrants into Finland on a very large scale here in Parliament a couple of years ago. The debate was mainly about what kind of measures we should take to better integrate immigrants here. Yes, at least I was reminded of the fact that one of the key issues is language skills. If there is no language skills, Finnish or Swedish, now perhaps even English, then it is very difficult to integrate and get to work, to get to education, to create social networks and so on. But can we include in this whole how long a person has been in Finland? I don't see a direct connection to it. Rather, if some citizenship requirements are tightened up, they would be linked to this particular question of language skills and integrity and to the social networks that enable a person to demonstrate that he is truly integrated here and wants to influence the development of Finnish society in a positive way. I see this question in such a way that since this is a joint initiative of the Finns of Finland, this may also be seen in connection with the costs of immigration. What I have been thinking about is that in Finland, when we have quite a rare social security system based on housing in Europe, it may be that in the years to come we will have to ask ourselves who is meant to have that housing-based social security system, on what grounds and how we can change this system in general so that people feel that it is not just enough, of course, to be socially just. Those who have been here for a long time often find it unfair that very quickly the same kind of social security as that of the native Finns is available. I would like the government to think about it and perhaps, in parliamentary terms, to think about this whole thing. Mr President! One last thing that came to mind about this bill. That is that we have people with dual citizenship at the moment. I myself had a bill here a week ago stating that those responsible for the most severe terrorist offences could lose their citizenship if they had dual citizenship. At the moment, the law is that if a person commits a crime that gives him five years in prison, this dual nationality can be lost. I suggested that it should be smaller: for two years in prison. I would like to see these conditions of dual citizenship addressed. We would be tougher if there were serious crimes of treason, treason, terrorism and the perpetrators of these serious crimes, then this Finnish citizenship could be lost more easily.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u91	Mr President! This is a good, worthwhile and important initiative. As has been pointed out in several speeches, the Finnish passport is one of the most prestigious travel documents in the world. It is if you compare how many countries you can easily enter, and also in relation to how the person who carries such a passport is viewed in different countries. Of course, this has many different backgrounds behind it. On the one hand, of course, it is a matter of Finland having followed a foreign policy that we are quite widely appreciated around the world for, but also of the fact that in most countries it is considered that the holder of a Finnish passport is likely to be a pretty reliable fellow. The probability that the carrier of a Finnish passport will come to the country to commit terrorist attacks or to organise a violent revolution or something like that has obviously been relatively low historically. For this reason, a person with a Finnish passport has generally been highly valued and easily admitted and able to operate abroad as well. This is the kind of advantage you might want to hold onto. In other words, if we share Finnish citizenship on very good grounds, as we can rightly say, that we have actually divided into most other Western countries, one day the Finnish passport may no longer enjoy the same kind of appreciation as it once enjoyed, and of course this will have many consequences. If the person carrying the Finnish passport is such that you do not really know what you are getting from it, then it will have a wide range of negative effects. Well, then it is also the case that too lax distribution of the Finnish passport — citizenship — may have more serious consequences. We have already proven that people who have been granted Finnish citizenship have gone abroad for terrorist purposes, engaged in terrorist wars, apparently also in atrocities, which are ultimately difficult to resolve, especially from here on out. Although, quite rightly, initiatives have been taken to make it easier for dual citizens who have the nationality of another country to take Finnish citizenship away under certain conditions, apart from the legal changes already in force, a much wiser policy is to prevent problems in advance. I see that the measures proposed in this initiative to strengthen the conditions of citizenship are preventive measures which, when they enter into force, would at least make it more difficult for people of Finnish citizenship abroad to commit inhuman crimes that are not normally expected of Finnish citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u92	Mr President! I would like to respond to Mrs Rantanen when you referred to the fact that I said that people want to look for a better life in Finland. That better life can be a study opportunity, a job opportunity, a marriage, many other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u97	Mr. Speaker! It seems that the SDP's representative, Al-Tae, is back to the bedtime story when Finland's immigration policy has also become strict. I think we all know that this is a world-wide immigration policy, and, as has been pointed out in those previous speeches, this citizenship policy too is extremely loose. Then bring to this table those countries where it is more loose if you think this is tough. I suspect there are no such countries here. It was also quite right to raise the debate that, of course, this citizenship policy is a whole, even though only one part of it was dealt with in this initiative. True, it could pay attention to this very integrity or honesty. In my opinion, this is in fact somewhat taken into account today, but then this actual language requirement: I know of cases in which, in fact, this language requirement has been abandoned for one or another reason or another — for example, that a person cannot read and therefore does not really learn the language properly, so there are exceptions. Here, officials can give exceptions to these. As far as that income is concerned, which is quite essential, and Mrs Rantanen has made a good point about it, it is quite a miracle that social benefits are going to be read into this income — we are about to grant citizenship to a person and we should get along on our own, then we will look at social benefits. It should be noted that the vast majority of those who currently receive this Finnish citizenship do indeed retain its previous citizenship. Would it have been as much as 90% if I remembered about the hat, but it was a huge majority that maintained its previous citizenship. Then, of course, it will be possible to start — and I think it is a good idea to have a debate on these issues now with us — with a view to withdrawing this citizenship more easily. It will be much easier in every way to try to get citizenship a little more difficult than it would then lose it more easily. In fact, the new argument raised by Mrs Halla-aho here is that when these people actually retain their dual nationality, it is quite essential to ask which state these new citizens actually give their loyalty in the event of any kind of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u98	Mr President! Of course it would be the best medicine, or not a medicine, but to make it clear that there is work, there is language skills, there is integrity, but, as is clear from the speech of the previous representative, Mr Tavio, to everyone, these things are not properly respected, even the language requirement, and of course not even the integrity, they are always interpreted in accordance with their wishes. That is why it is extremely important in the final games that this time criterion should come and be further emphasised here. It must be remembered, however, that there are people here who have worked for the well-being of this society for decades, not necessarily for a hundred years, but well more than 50 years, when it would be considered to be somehow unreasonable that an immigrant would only have to give evidence for a few years that he is socially viable. Something reminds me, what's the rush? If things work well and things like that, not that you have to wait 10 years to get citizenship, you would think it would be insurmountable, because clearly it is worth pursuing, if that is the case. When Mr Rydman said that the Finnish passport is one of the best travel documents at least for the time being, I think we should make an enormous effort to keep this mentality going. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that the representative of the government party tried to do something like this the other day that the Finnish passport will soon not be able to get to certain countries when there are genuine people of all appearances in surgery. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u99	Mr President! I must confess that it is very difficult for me to follow the logic of Mr Al-Tae in his speeches. Firstly, he has told us that he does not support this initiative. Secondly, he has said that this initiative is, in fact, already largely in force in Finland. Thirdly, he has said that, in fact, such a strict policy is all right and should be adhered to. Fourthly, he has told us that in fact, such a looser way than other countries in Finland to share citizenship is a key factor in Finland’s ability to attract these people to stay in this country. It is very difficult for me to understand how all these claims could be true at the same time, because, at least in my logic, these are highly contradictory claims. As such, I agree that Finland does not attract a skilled, trained workforce much compared to our key competitors. An educated, multilingual person who can easily find employment and who has something to give to a country like a country does not necessarily come to a country such as Finland very easily, especially when its languages are relatively difficult and poorly known and even weather conditions cannot compete terribly. This is the kind of talent we lose in other countries all the time. On the other hand, Finland seems to be a very attractive country and society on a completely different basis for some labour force coming to Finland and perhaps less sought after, and I do not think that we should have in our legislation any traction or attraction or retention factors that would attract specific migrants of this kind to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u100	Mr President! Representative al-Taee put forward the often heard assumption or claim that no one will come to Finland to live on social security here. At the same time, however, he suggests that someone would come to Finland to pay taxes and finance the Finnish system, which is just as absurd. The fact is that all people who are on the move in the world are looking for a better life, but because people's qualities and starting points are different, the criteria for choosing the target country are very different. Of course, those with ideas and skills that can turn into money and well-being go where ideas and skills can get the best price, i.e. places with low levels of taxation and higher levels of pay. Unfortunately, these characteristics do not directly characterize a Finnish society with a very high level of taxation and a relatively low level of pay. Well, this, of course, attracts people after a better life who are not interested in the level of taxation, because they do not pay taxes, but who are interested in a high level of social security. These people typically do not have the kind of skills they could use in a different environment. Representative al-Taee also mentioned the retention factors that Finland needs in order to hold on to the people who came here, but has Finland now had some discernible difficulties to hold on to, say, the Somalis or Iraqis who came here? I do not believe that very large migration among these populations can be detected precisely away from Finland. This income requirement, which has been discussed, is certainly a good question. It is very problematic that the income requirement is considered to be met if the person takes up work through transfers of income, either mainly or in full. A more meaningful criterion would certainly be human dependence or independence from transfers of income, i.e. that citizenship would be conditional on a person being independent of income support, housing and other similar transfers at least for a certain period of time prior to citizenship. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u101	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to reply to Mr Rydman that I understand that it may be that at this time of night it is difficult to adopt logic. You spoke about how Finnish legislation is not comparable to these others, from the point of view of whether it is looser or stricter. I said it was tight and it was tight enough. It is strict from the point of view that Finnish citizenship is relatively difficult to obtain, it is not easy. Getting a residence permit already requires a very long course of integrity, and then five years after that it will be required to obtain Finnish citizenship, for example, and that also requires integrity, language skills, and proof that a person is ready to integrate and integrate. It is meant to be this way so that we can keep people in Finland who are willing to work here in Finland. We want, as you said, to attract such people here. And for these people it is an extra bonus for staying in Finland and paying taxes. I would therefore also like to respond to Mrs Halla-aho in relation to this logic of taxation. For one thing, talking about human qualities by a little raises hair.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u102	Mr President! There are many good logical and well-structured speeches in this Chamber from the right-hand side of the Chamber, arguing in favour of this initiative. In any of these arguments, Mr Al-Taee has not put his own voice on the table, but all the arguments have flowed, so to speak, from the back of the goose. On the other hand, Mr Al-Taeee has used speeches whose internal logic is very difficult to understand. When, first of all, you have opposed this initiative, that there should be no such blackmail, in your other replies you have said that in fact this initiative does not add anything to the fact that these are already existing legislation. Are you therefore opposed to the legislation in force? In one speech you have also said that it is all right to have this current legislation, which you think is strict, and then you have had speeches in which you say that it is actually all right that Finland has more looser practices than other countries, because this creates a retention factor that we can better keep people in this country. And then you are about to say that that is the case, but there is really no comparison between these legislations. So would you now tell Parliament: Is Finland a strict policy or a loose policy for the distribution of citizenship? You've claimed both. Secondly, is this tightness or looseness a good thing or a bad thing? On that too, you have made two types of argument. And can we or can we not compare legislation between Finland and other countries? If you can't, why can't you? These have remained very vague in your speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u103	Mr President! In my recent speech, I pointed out that I did not exactly warm up to the idea that the period of residence required to obtain citizenship in Finland would be extended, but instead I would be interested in the way the person is integrated into Finland, and we talked about language skills, integrity, social networks, work and study opportunities and so on. Mr Halla-aho raised the issue of independence from transfers of income just before applying for citizenship. I think that independence from income transfers must be one of the criteria, but if we consider that a person has been in Finland for four or five years and then just before the time of applying for citizenship, something has happened in his work history and he is unable to work and therefore to receive income transfers, then I would see that it is a rather unfair situation to deny him or her citizenship because of such a mishap or unpleasant situation in life. Yes, I would like to see the entire history of a person in Finland — everything he has done, everything he has tried to do to make it better rooted in Finland — rather than just one period of a few months or one year. But the starting point must be that in some way one can earn his own living. As one of Denmark's constituencies, there was an initiative before Christmas in this House that a child born in the region of the Isis Caliphate or in the war zone, who has the possibility of obtaining two citizenships, would no longer automatically acquire Danish citizenship if that child were to acquire its second nationality. At least before Christmas, the situation was that both the government parties and the opposition supported it. I just wanted to give this as an example that these issues are being considered in other Nordic countries. But, of course, we must be careful that when most people are on the right track, we do not complicate their situation at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u104	Mr President! We have been discussing this initiative for a long time now, on behalf of the Finnish People's Party. I am not going to take a strong stand on this initiative either in the direction or in the direction of the other, and I do not think that it is a representative. In his own speech, Mr Kauma has just defined his views in a way that is quite similar to my own. This initiative should be carefully examined and explained what is involved, but I asked for my intervention because, as we have now gone beyond immigration issues, I rarely use the text written here, but I now dug up a rather comprehensive article I wrote last autumn on my Facebook page, and I am now reading one paragraph on it, so that it can now be documented in Parliament's minutes in a concise form, what I think about these key issues. It says: “We have many immigrations, work-related immigration, from top researchers and experts to various maintenance and support jobs, studying in Finland, getting married to Finland, seeking protection for people in a genuinely distressed situation and life-threatening situation, and certainly there are also, as always in the world, a group of people who seek to gain access to Finland from our social security or even speculation or criminal aspirations. We just need to get this demanding and complicated situation under control. No country — not even Finland — can suddenly close its borders to all ‘guests’. The greatest difficulties would be for us. We would hardly then be a very great success in international trade, not to mention other areas of life.” If anyone wants to interpret this line as a strict immigration policy, I will not deny it. And when, for example, Mr Kauma referred to the current situation in Denmark, I have carefully followed the Danish Social Democratic Party's line of action on these issues and have seen a lot of things there that reflect my own views. But, as has been said, this is a complex issue, it is a question of avoiding excesses, and here I just wanted to sum up my own view. When I discussed, orally, with a representative of a group of Finns who are not in the Chamber now — and I do not mention his name in this connection, even if there is no problem for either of us — and I told him that when I had this seven-point breakdown of these various immigration groups, we agreed that the four of them are understandable and justified, but the three of them are those that neither of us would like to see in Finland. Did he agree with me, or did I agree with him, that's just semantics now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u105	Mr President! Of course, it is a pleasure to hear that the demo group becomes such reasonable exits. Of course, when Denmark and Norway have been mentioned there, the Demari Party has taken such a rational approach in the field of immigration that it is precisely the intention that negative immigration, both for the economy and for security, should be restricted in every way. I would have commented to Mr Kauma that, now that this is the ten-year residence requirement, we can already see in ten years whether we are going to be left to transfers or not, and it has to be said that if, at the end of this period, we have been working for nine years and just before the application is submitted, then I would somehow imagine that when the citizenship law has been baked terribly deeply into this overall consideration, perhaps it would be considered as a whole. Mr Al-Taele is bound to say now that you obviously have not read the citizenship law terribly carefully, and it is worth reading if you have the impression that it is very strict or that this process of ours is very strict. Or if you visit Migri, you will see that it may not be quite as strict as other European countries either.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u106	Mr President! I have been to Migri and I would be happy to go there again with Mr Rantanen so that we can then study together how the Finnish citizenship law or residence applications or others will be examined and compared with other countries. Sweden has had net immigration since the 30s, except for one year. In Sweden, fertility statistics are relatively good, much better than in Finland — actually among the best in Europe. Their economy is in some respects more sustainable than Finland's. Mr Rydman spoke about where I felt in this bill that there were things that I thought were good, strict. Well, the fact that a person speaks Finnish is a good thing. It makes integration possible. In my opinion, this requirement to know the language was not in the law, by the way, 20 years ago. That was only the basis for living, it was later tightened up. The point where I have opposed this bill is that the number of years has been increased to ten. I think it is unreasonable, and it is against the national interests of Finland. Finland's national interests require that we have retention forces in Finland to get these top experts mentioned by Mr Lindén to stay. In Norway, which has been mentioned earlier, there is a better level of pay, there is a better economic situation anyway. They have a huge oil fund in the world with which they can do different things, and they can be tighter if necessary here and there. We do not have the same opportunities, but at the moment, according to experts, Finland's national interest requires approximately 18,000 net immigrants to move to Finland. Most of them are by no means asylum seekers. I am not quite sure what negative immigration actually means, because it is positive, especially when the children of immigrants are able to undergo Finnish education and become taxpayers. It is the responsibility of our society to make it possible for them, which will also neutralise all negative consequences, but I would not talk about negative immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u107	Mr President! Of course, immigrants or potential people who explicitly have something knowledgeable or skilled to give to the host society are open to doors around the world. They will certainly assess where they are moving, mainly on the basis of good job offers and good pay benefits, the tax environment of the new country, on the one hand, what the prerequisite is for living there and being due to various factors, and for such immigrants, on the other hand. Admittedly, Finland is not a very attractive country. If you want to make a lot of money and your own know-how can make money anywhere in the world, it is probably quite easy to find something more attractive to move than Finland. Nor are such migrants likely to be attracted to a more lax citizenship policy. On the other hand, a more relaxed citizenship policy can attract quite different kinds of migrants, and migrants who move to Finland specifically because of a more relaxed citizenship policy are not likely to be migrants who would be very easily able to benefit Finland financially either. In fact, for the first time, I do hear the idea that immigrants should be specifically attracted by a somewhat more looser citizenship policy or that a more loose distribution of citizenship would be a particularly good way to attract skilled and skilled people. I think that this is such an absurd idea that no one has yet dared to present it. However, I am delighted that when you look at the social democrats in a European perspective, I believe that realism about immigration has been on the increase. In Denmark and Norway it is quite obvious, and I believe there is hope in Sweden too, perhaps not quite as hopeless as it was some time ago. And as far as Finland is concerned, I think, for example, that there were many good points in Mr Lindén's speech, and it also formed a logical and intellectually complete whole, something that many representatives would like to see in our Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u108	Mr President! In his speech, Mr Lindé quoted himself and wanted to emphasise that immigration is a very complex whole, as it is, of course. I myself have been involved in this debate on immigration for almost 20 years, and I have discovered that there will always be new people involved in this debate and that each of them wants to reinvent this wheel, that immigration is a complex whole, that not all immigration can be dealt with with with the same tools. I would say that on this side of the political spectrum this has never been unclear that immigration is made up of very different things that cannot and should not be tried with the same tools. In fact, your party colleague, Mr Al-Taee, is guilty of precisely what you warned us about in your own speech. He raised Sweden and said that Sweden has had a net immigration situation since the 30s. However, until the oil crisis, people moved to Sweden mainly from Greece, Yugoslavia and the rest of Europe. The capacity of the arrivals, i.e. the capacity of the working world, and the needs of the Swedish industry met perfectly for those decades. People could be put directly from the port or from the airport on the factory’s conveyor belt to work. Today the situation is very different in Sweden. Since the '70s, immigration has been almost exclusively humanitarian or family-based — which is also, in fact, humanitarian, because it is the family members of humanitarian immigrants. While Sweden, like the rest of the Western world, has become an increasingly difficult environment in terms of its labour market, the working life capacity of those who come has become weaker and weaker. If a society such as Sweden becomes illiterate people from nomadic cultures, their prerequisites for finding any work that would be relevant or important for society are very weak. Mr Al-Taee asked what negative immigration is. Well, we don't use that kind of term. We are talking about harmful immigration. Harmful immigration is a form of immigration with a negative net impact on public finances. So, if we have a group of immigrants, how is it to be defined, which, as a whole, uses more publicly funded services or transfers of income than pays the taxes by which they are financed, then we are dealing with immigration that is detrimental to society. This does not even take a position on other negative phenomena of such immigration in general, such as ghettoisation, increasing insecurity,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u109	Mr President! Let us also take a direct stand on this problem of immigration. When immigration is dealt with in a sufficiently long timeline, then these costs to society will be neutralised, and this is something that the decision-makers can really influence. In what time it takes — it is in the hands of the decision-makers. We can do like Sweden, which for decades moved people directly onto the conveyor belt, or we can, like Finland, bring people and teach them where to find social services, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u115	Mr President! It is easy to agree with Mr Al-Tae first of all that it would certainly be desirable for an immigrant to come to work in a country he has moved to rather than on social security — at least this is how I interpreted your speech. Secondly, I strongly agree that it is an important attractive factor in terms of the security and stability of the country to which we may be moving. You used a comparison of how safe it is, for example, for a school student to travel alone on the school trip he makes. This has certainly been the key strength of Finnish society. Unfortunately, immigration in particular, which has been directed towards Finland in recent years, has been more likely to erode this image of Finland, not only as a picture, but also as a reality. Rather, as a result of the immigration that has taken place in recent years, parents avoid children going to school on their own, or have to be more careful on the street and watch where young people move and what risks are involved. Yes, these factors have been specifically undermined by this type of immigration. It is indeed worth noting that there are so many kinds of immigration, and unfortunately the situation is that: Rather, Finland attracts immigration that, even in the long term, has very poor conditions for adapting to Finnish society. It is just that a highly educated person with language skills, no matter what cultural background he comes from, is likely to adapt quite well. It is also the case that even a little less educated, a little less language-speaking person from a very close cultural circle is likely to adapt quite well to the country he has moved. A person who both comes from a very distant cultural society and is poorly educated and with little knowledge of language is generally very weak, particularly weak if he comes as part of a large wave of migration from one country and the same country — that is when problems arise. It is also interesting and alarming to note, in various sociological studies, that, for example, the children of immigrants from Bangladesh, which is a relatively secular society in itself, who come from Bangladesh, and even those who are quite secular immigrants, are in a European context trying to radicalise themselves quite quickly in a religious way that their parents had not represented.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u116	Mr President! When a person who has no language skills and has no knowledge comes to Finland, I would ask where Mr Al-Taee intends to put them to work, because nevertheless the representatives of the same party, even the government and the Prime Minister's Party, have spoken in this year how impossible it is for an uneducated Finnish-speaking person to get a job. In my opinion, this is totally out of line. In the past, I have been a little critical of the fact that education is perhaps of too much personal value. There's a lot of work to get to a job, even with a relatively good salary, when you're motivated to do it. But if the representatives of the SDP see that a Finnish-speaking uneducated person does not intend to get a job and therefore has been forced into secondary education, how can a person without language skills from another culture be thrown directly onto a conveyor belt? I understand that in Sweden it did quite well in the '70s, there was little to do but know how to make a certain move. I don't care if you can speak Swedish or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u117	Mr. Speaker! It is a good thing that this security aspect emerged in this debate, because that is exactly what this bill is about. In the opinion of the True Finns, it is not just talk that is needed; it is action that is needed. Acts to prevent, for example, these events such as Oulu from becoming more commonplace, i.e. that this rape of foreigners would not become more commonplace in Finland. When it comes to security, it is noted that you may indeed have the impression within the SDP that this mass immigration will not affect Finland’s security. It begins to me in these existing realities to be quite incomprehensible to the idea of the demarcation camp. After all, it is precisely these higher percentages of certain groups that we know about, for example, rape crime. True Finns, however, are sure to assume that the individual is an individual and that individual treatment must be given. Of course, it is not possible to generalise people in this way, but these phenomena must be seen as a whole from a legal point of view. In other words, when this requirement for residence time is now only four years from the application for asylum — that is, from the time you submit it, four years from now you are a Finnish citizen — the problem is that after you commit, for example, a serious rape of a child, you still get to stay in the country. I can't believe this. And even if you were guilty of aggravated child rape before you got that citizenship, you will still be allowed to stay in the country — when that investigation may take time, or if the crime does not necessarily come to light when it happens, but it may take years for the victim, for example, to dare to report it and the case will be investigated. What is at stake here is that we do not know people well enough in four years, and it is more difficult for us today to withdraw that citizenship than to give it citizenship. In other words, for a part, this certain level of safety and extension is not really out of these well-functioning people in any way when you think about it. But instead, it is a concrete way of adding to the fact that Finland will continue to be safe – although I do not know whether it is now, but at least it will be safer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u118	Mr President! Congressman Tavio, you're wrong about the SDP. You also said that individuals are individuals and should not be generalized — do not generalise the ideas you have about the SDP. For the SDP, safety is a priority. The SDP does not accept that we should allow a policy that endangers the safety of Finns. That's for sure. Now we are talking about citizenship law, and this is where Mr Rydman talked about the fact that certain kinds of immigrants are undermining Finnish security. Let's go to numbers: at the moment, Finland needs to be able to function sustainably as a welfare society in the future, 18,000 net immigrants, and therefore a small proportion of them come to Finland for one reason or another, not for work-related reasons but for other reasons. Most of them have come and have been lured after work. Thousands of Chinese come here every year, people come from India, people come from other parts of Europe. Thus, among those who have been lured by Finland, a small number are ultimately those who can in some way undermine the security of society. Representative Tavio spoke of the fact that four years or five years would not be able to determine whether a person is fit to stay in Finland and gain Finnish citizenship. You can prove it. We have a chance, and it has been proven. In fact, a person who commits crimes in Finland is unlikely to want to receive Finnish citizenship or stay in Finland. Such a person is a criminal, and he knows very well that by committing crimes he will not be able to stay in Finland, and he would probably also be tried to return to his country of origin if that is possible. Well, international law, however, prevents; if it is verifiable that a person experiences persecution there in his own country, he cannot be returned. This does not mean, for example, that he is able to move completely freely in Finland. If this person is perceived as a security threat, then he too will be dealt with in that way. This is not the kind of country I feel, Mr Tavio, you describe. This is not unsafe, and we cannot come and go as we please. A small fraction of people are currently underground, for example, undocumented. For some, legal certainty has not been achieved. In their case, these processes need to be re-examined, and Migri in particular plays an important role in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u119	Mr President! I would not dare to prolong this debate now, but we must seize this secure society. The representative, al-Taee, described well what kind of country Finland is. We basic Finns do not take these legal initiatives because we want to be bad guys and make bad law initiatives, but we are fathers, mothers whose children go through those streets, and that is why we want to maintain its security in this country, and that is why we are trying not to get other evildoers in this country, not only from our own evildoers, but also from other countries. But then to lure the talent. In 2019, this for the benefit of the assembly, when you have talked a lot about increasing work-related immigration and facilitating it...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u120	Mr President! Mr Rantanen is quite right about this, and the message has been very much conveyed, sometimes even listened to. With regard to this immigration and the employment effects on which little was said on the left side of the Chamber, it is, of course, true that the amount of work in itself is not constant, but all work is always creating new work. In that sense, if there are workers to come, those who still commit themselves to the rules of society are and should be welcome. However, it would be quite wrong to start counting that Finland needs a certain numerical number of immigrants to remain the welfare society it is. This is wrong for a number of reasons. Firstly, there is no standard relationship between the number of people in employment and the proportion of the population outside the labour market. Economically speaking, it is a good thing if there are as many people as possible who are involved in working life in relation to the number of people who are not working. But, in fact, our economic dependency ratio at the moment is significantly weaker than what it was, say, a hundred years ago. Nevertheless, Finland is a more prosperous and prosperous society than Finland was at the time. Why did I do that? Because automation, robotisation, in general, improved work has resulted in the same amount of work, the same number of people being able to do more productive work than they were able to do in the past. I see no reason why this development will continue to stop. In particular, thanks to improved labour productivity and mechanisation and automation, we are dying of work that is constantly being carried out, easily absorbed, and we are calling for an increasingly highly trained, increasingly skilled workforce. And unfortunately, it is quite difficult to recruit this workforce from abroad, because the labour force, which is the most competitive of all, has alternatives other than Finland, and it is, after all, quite difficult for Finland to be the most attractive country for such a workforce. On the other hand, Finland is currently attracting immigrant material which may not be easily described as a labour force and whose economic impact on Finland is negative and not positive and which explicitly undermines the economic dependency ratio. There is no point in promoting this kind of immigration, because it only increases the problems it envisages solving. Mr Al-Taee said that he should not generalise the entire SDP. I'm glad to hear this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u121	Mr President! Now that you have this kind of good bill at hand and talk about language skills, then I want to raise this side not quite directly related to the matter. I read a distressed message from the citizen: ‘Can education institutions organise basic education for adult immigrants in accordance with the provisions of the Government of Education? If they do, it will put the Finnish National Board of Education in a very strange light. Educational institutions and upper secondary schools — vocational schools and upper secondary schools — have received low-skilled and, in part, illiterate students in Finland who have a comprehensive school leave certificate issued by educational institutions, even with highly qualified grades. Study places are distributed in the joint application process on the basis of an average, and the activities of educational institutions involve both costs for secondary schools and the need for additional and support education and distort the choice of students. I hope you will convey your concern to the National Board of Education.” So, at the same time, we may be creating such a small bottleneck for our own young people that those willing and eager students may not be able to enter the professions they are seeking. That is what I wanted to raise in support of this debate. Well, when Mr Al-Taee talked about individuals and groups, I have met a lot of individuals, some of whom are very smart, and they have done well here, they have learned the language and they may have been employed, but they too will understand that when I tell them that if certain nationalities are seen as groups, it is negative to society's economy, and unfortunately it is negative for the next generation too. It's not an easy thing to do. There are certain nationalities which unfortunately are not positive for the economy of our society. I see that Tavio's bill is absolutely brilliant, and I want to support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u122	Mr President! Congressman Mäenpää is right. There are good individuals, and the majority of these people who have come to this country are good individuals. Now is the time to see them as individuals and partly transfer this rhetoric about the fact that some nationalities commit certain crimes or the like, in many other contexts than merely related to the nationality in which we may be able to have a reasonable discussion. This is where Mr Rantanen said that we Finns are fathers and mothers and we are terribly concerned about safety, the safety of our children. The majority of immigrants are fathers or mothers, so they have children, children of their own, and they too are concerned about the safety of their own children and want to raise them well. Ask any father or mother if you want a safe future for your children, and she will answer that yes, or that you are prepared to commit to Finnish law in order to achieve this, and she will answer that yes. Well, there are these individuals who may not want good for one reason or another, whether these people are Finnish or not. These are what our society, the security authorities and others, are supposed to pick up and neutralize, their danger is being neutralized. And that is what we are constantly doing, and that is why we are constantly giving more resources to the police, the protection police, for example, and we are constantly working to increase deradikalisation, for example, preventative work in a wide range of areas. This is the way in which it is largely possible to break down the hazards that may then be affecting Finland. Then it may have to be said to Mr Rydman that according to Etla's research, an immigrant or a foreigner, hopefully in the future, will enter into business just as often as a common Finn. And that is why I would say to Mrs Sheikki Laakso that there are many professions and jobs in which immigrants can network. For example, a person can work in a kitchen in a pitcher. He may need nothing in the kitchen but the mother tongue of his own reference group, but he can become a taxpayer, and he will certainly be welcome to do so. The person in the register is likely to speak Finnish, answer the phone and speak Finnish. But there are many who do not have to, and there are still such professions. That is why I would say to Mr Rydman that automation is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u123	Mr President! It is quite true that many immigrants are employed quite well. There are ethnic groups that in fact employ better than the ethnic protagonists. On the other hand, it also draws attention to the fact that, unfortunately, there are many groups that employ significantly less than other groups and are highly over-represented among the long-term unemployed and other inactive groups, and this too should not be blindfolded. Here's what I'm talking about. This is a legislative initiative, and legislative initiatives rarely lead to any concrete action in Parliament, but they are good tools for raising debate and raising important social issues. As such, I think that this bill is very much in favour of it and I am happy to support it and I hope that it will help to put pressure on the sitting government to take action — if it were to open up a somewhat more intellectually rewarding debate than perhaps we have heard from time to time in this Chamber. On the other hand, there have also been such good and analytical speeches that perhaps they will provide a good basis for the debate against it, and in that sense I wish this initiative every success.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u124	Mr President! As I am, at least for the time being, the last person on the list of speakers, I would also like to thank Mr Al-Taeet for this debate, who bravely represents that other point of view than most or all the other speakers who are currently in the Chamber. I would like to say a few words about these generalisations. It is quite true that people are individuals and every human being should be viewed as individuals, but legislation cannot leave the individual, but legislation is always based on generalisations and cannot be based on anything else. If you think of a non-immigration issue, we have an 18-year age limit for voting rights, that applies to everyone. It is clear that some of those aged 18 and over are totally immature to take a stand on any matter, and it is equally clear that some 16-year-olds would be quite mature to take a stand on them, but we cannot individually determine who has the right to vote and who does not. This, of course, also applies to immigration policy and foreign policy. For example, the visa requirement applies to nationals of a given country. All Nigerian citizens are required to have a visa in Finland, no US citizen is required to have a visa in Finland. However, it is quite clear that not all people from Nigeria are problematic and some people from the United States are problematic. Not all immigration is problematic for Finland, but these problems are highlighted in certain groups of immigrants. Some nationalities can be identified where employment is extremely low — people from Iraq and Somalia, for example, with whom the employment rate may be at 15%, because a large proportion of the adult population is permanently inactive and unemployment is also very high. This issue can also be considered from the point of view of the entry criterion. Almost all groups of immigrants with problems in terms of employment or crime are also groups that come here through humanitarian channels or through family reunification channels, and it is therefore possible to influence this problem through legislation without taking a stand on people's background or skin colour or other such issues. If asylum policy and family reunification practices are tightened up, including in the ways suggested by the True Finns, these immigration problems can largely be eliminated or at least significantly reduced. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u125	Mr President! For my part, too, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for a good debate and, in particular, Mrs Halla-aho for a good summary and for the wisdom she has shown in saying that legislation cannot treat individuals but is intended for everyone. Of course, there are some exceptions to the legislation from time to time, which gives it a certain degree of flexibility and humanity. I would say that we cannot legislate to attract huge numbers of good immigrants who work in Finland and pay taxes to Finland, but at the same time we would try, for example, to prevent so-called harmful immigration. It is the same legislation that treats everyone. It is the same legislation on which we also want to grant this Finnish citizenship that the Finns of Finland have proposed. Therefore, there are already certain criteria in the current law on the basis of which a person can obtain Finnish citizenship. These criteria are very strict: integration through language is currently required, integrity is required, commitment to Finnish lifestyles is required in a wide variety of ways, including through culture and language. At the same time, this five-year promise can commit the maximum amount of approximately 12,000 to 15,000 people who move to the country after work, stay in the country and start their families. Therefore, the current legislation is quite good, although it is already relatively strict at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u126	Mr President! Migration has been discussed in this regard on both sides and in a different way. I myself come from Coastal Ostrobothnia, where we have, and I would like to raise this issue with regard to work-related immigration, really great challenges in many municipalities. The unemployment rate is even around 2% to 3%, and there is a need for factors around Finland, but also for work-related immigration. And one of the points that came up in this debate and which I would like to emphasise is the need for all kinds of experts, hands, for example, in the boat industry, in the metal industry and also in primary productions, not only for very high-quality experts, but also for a rather wide range of skills. That is also what I wanted to highlight in this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u127	Mr President! Representative Halla-aho brought the matter together well, which is why this bill is signed here today by the Finns of Finland, and Taviohan is its first signatory. So, above all, security, well-being and employment — they are very important to all Finns, and the Finns of Finland are pushing for these things. Internationalism is, of course, something that is today and for granted. We're not against it, are we? But Finnish passport and Finnish citizenship are things that must be earned. It is not a very easy paper, and the fact that we want to extend this observation period in order to ensure that the applicant is entitled to a Finnish passport is the reason why this bill is. This debate has been very colorful and it is good that it has been quite diverse. I would have liked to have had a little more people here. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u128	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session of 28 February 1920.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u129	Mr President! Indeed, last Friday this bill by Mr Junnila was here in the Chamber and we dealt with it extensively, and then there was an expanded debate, and there was also quite a lot of talk about transport, especially private cars and its challenges. This bill proposes that, in addition to two to four instalments, the vehicle tax could be paid in no more than 12 instalments and that the three-euro payment method supplement should be abolished. After all, a car is necessary, especially in rural areas. Motorists are being unduly disciplined today, and that is what we Finns are concerned about, and that is why we want to keep this issue on the agenda. Although the car is vital to most people, the cost of driving and maintaining and purchasing the car is too high at the moment. If there is a situation in households where the distribution of payments into monthly instalments, even if it makes it easier to live, it should be possible, just as has been suggested in this bill. Furthermore, the payment method supplement should not be added to the invoice. This is not a very big issue for the motorist, but it may be necessary in many cases. This representative The Junnila bill, as it went through, would not reduce the tax revenue from driving and would therefore not be a source of tax revenue, but, especially for a low-income Finland, it would give some room for manoeuvre in the payment of vehicle tax. That is why I have also signed this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-04-ps-17.u130	Mr President! Mr Junnila's bill proposes that a taxable person may, if he so wishes, pay an annual vehicle tax in up to 12 instalments instead of up to 4 items permitted by the current law. In addition, it is proposed that the €3 payment method supplement be abolished. The monthly payment of the tax will facilitate the planning of the economy and also the payment of charges when the vehicle is temporarily removed from transport, for example during the winter. The vehicle tax does not have to be paid during the period of depreciation, but the tax paid in advance will only be credited with the next tax ticket. So it won't be returned immediately. Since the tax is paid in advance in accordance with current practice, it may be that the amount of overpaid tax of up to hundreds of euros is expected to be refunded for several months until the vehicle is put into service again. This has rightly upset many motorists, and I too have received personal mail for Parliament's e-mail. I also think that this payment supplement of EUR 3 is unreasonable and should be completely abolished, just as this initiative suggests. I support Mr Junnila's initiative.
