ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Administrative Committee, the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Economic Affairs must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u2	Mr President! Hundreds of coronavirus infections are reported daily, and the disease spreads across the population of Finland. As we can see from the examples of other countries, it is possible that the epidemic situation will continue to deteriorate. Such a change can be both sudden and widespread. In the coming weeks, we will see how regional restrictions and recommendations affect the disease situation and whether any stabilisation can be seen in the sharp increase in the number of cases that started in mid-November. In June, the Government stated that due to the expiry of the Act on Preparedness, the necessary amendments to the Act on communicable diseases should be prepared. Changes with significant links to fundamental rights have been rapidly prepared since then. The proposal provides for various measures to prevent the spread of the corona virus epidemic. The proposed regulation is intended to prevent the spread of infections, i.e. to protect human health. In particular, we want to protect vulnerable people who are at an increased risk of being seriously affected by coronavirus infection, i.e. the aim is to protect life and ensure the carrying capacity of the social and health care system, because people have the right to adequate care and adequate social and health services. First of all, the proposal proposes to provide for the possibility of a regional or national extension of social and health care activities in order to ensure the functioning of the social and health care system. A decision of the Regional Administrative Agency could derogate from the way in which social and health services that fall under the municipal responsibility are otherwise organised and produced. In certain circumstances, the decision could be taken by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Secondly, the proposal proposes to lay down the conditions under which different services can be provided safely even during an epidemic of interest rates. The mechanisms have been phased out in accordance with the hybrid strategy action plan so that obligations and restrictions can be tightened if previous measures are not sufficient. At the basic level, hygiene obligations should be complied with directly under the law. These activities include the provision of an opportunity to clean hands, the improvement of the cleaning of premises and surfaces, the provision of human guidance and measures to maintain sufficient distances. In the context of an acceleration phase, if the regional disease situation so requires, as a secondary measure, if compliance with previous measures is not sufficient, a regional decision could be taken to reduce close contact. The municipality or the Regional State Administrative Agency could require traders and other actors to organise their activities in such a way that close contact between people in customer premises and other open spaces can be effectively avoided. In practice, this could mean space arrangements, such as the setting of partitions and plexes, the repositioning of customer positions or the restriction of use, the steering of customer access or, ultimately, the limitation of the number of customers. The obligation could also be fulfilled by scheduling the arrival and stay of customers. Similarly, in the event of an acceleration, a decision by the Authority could, where appropriate, limit passenger volumes in passenger transport. National decision-making in the field of transport safety for transport service providers would be centralised with the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency. As a last resort, the proposal suggests that the municipality or the Regional State Administrative Agency could close the premises for business or other activities intended for customers or participants for a period of two weeks. The possibility of prohibiting the inclusion of customers or participants could relate to activities where there would be a special possibility of significant supply chains being created. Such facilities would include a wide range of places for sports, saunas, swimming pools, spas and other and related dressing rooms, dance venues, choir singing, amateur theatre and other group activities, amusement and theme parks, fairs and zoos, indoor playgrounds, etc., and general shopping centers — some of the things on this list. According to the Act on Infectious Diseases already in force, certain facilities such as social welfare and health care units, educational institutions, day care centres, housing and similar facilities can be closed down and opportunities for gathering people can be banned. The proposal would therefore add the possibility of imposing restrictions and also closing certain premises for business and leisure activities to the law. The proposal also contains provisions on the supervision of the above-mentioned obligations. Mr President! The draft has been prepared on the basis of the constitutional framework. Regulation is as precise and precise as possible. The aim of this regulation is to safeguard the right of people to health and, in particular, the right of people of high risk groups to life. Similarly, the aim of the proposal is to contribute to ensuring the adequacy of social and health services during the epidemic. There is currently no effective cure for coronavirus infection. Furthermore, the population has no immunity against the disease. This is a clearly dangerous infection for some of the population. In the current epidemic situation, both the legislator and the decision-making authorities will have to weigh up fundamental rights and seek a state of justice in which fundamental rights can be fully realised. The proposed regulation will enable public authorities to protect the health of the population. At the same time, the aim is to ensure that freedom of industry, religious freedom, the protection of property, freedom of assembly and association and cultural rights are fully realised. Mr President! Finally, it is also proposed to specify the rules on access rights, the rules on work, early childhood education and absenteeism and the rules on the place of isolation. In addition, provision would be made for the possibility for Customs and the Border Guard to provide official assistance. The proposed law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible. It is proposed that the provisions of the Act be provisionally in force in relation to the covid-19 epidemic until 31 December 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u3	Thank you for the introduction. Now, let's have a conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u4	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kiuru, for a good introduction. The Korona virus continues to spread around the world, and so do we here in Finland. That is why the government has had to and must increase the means to control the disease. Practical measures have been taken into account in the adoption of the Act of Infection, but these are largely temporary. The aim is to strengthen the capacity of local and regional authorities to take proactive and rapid action to prevent the spread of the corona virus. Regional restrictive measures have already had to be introduced in those locations where the virus has been found to be in an accelerated phase. The clarifications of the restrictive measures concern, inter alia, public events such as sports events, indoor sports, restaurant opening hours and reduction of customer seats, and travel restrictions have been introduced. It is appropriate to introduce even more drastic measures at the stage of dispersal. These activities are decided by the municipality and the Regional State Administrative Agency. In order to minimise the number of close contacts, it will also require the closure of common spaces. These activities include, for example, closing the interiors of team sports, group sports, gyms and other hobby activities. Saunas and swimming pools and spas with dressing rooms, dance places, amusement and theme parks, zoos and indoor play facilities would be closed. The lounges of shopping centres could also be decommissioned. These specific measures would last up to 2 weeks. Mr President! If the corona epidemic were to spread even more and more rapidly over the next few weeks, regional government authorities or, at national level, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health could, as a last resort, oblige the various responsible parties to change their activities on a rather short schedule. This would mean, for example, that health care units would increase the number of care places as well as the number of clients in social care housing or institutional care. The municipality or joint municipal authority could also be obliged to provide social and health services to customers or patients who are not under their responsibility under normal circumstances. Mr President! I, and I believe other Members of Parliament, have had several contacts, for example, from parents of children and young people, with regard to these leisure opportunities for children and young people and the effects of restrictions on their hobbies. I have a 10-year-old son and he is very active in two different teams. I understand very well the importance of the opportunity to engage in activities for the child and the everyday life of the family. We've got it. In Kouvola, we have already moved into the corona expansion phase, and we have had to reduce these indoor training sessions for children and young people, and we have had to stop them because of the disease situation — and, admittedly, it is extremely regrettable and it is a violation of the normal routine of the family and child, but at this point it is good to remember that there are fixed-term restrictions, and I have also tried to stress this to my own child. The Christmas break for several teams usually hits this particular Christmas and New Year. Our children and young people have the rest of their lives to do, and in order for the rest of our lives to begin as quickly as possible, the corona must be subdued. These restrictions are part of caring, and this is done for each of us. I think it is important that, if there is a need, these regional restrictions should be introduced quickly. Timing to stop the acceleration phase is the most important task of the whole epidemic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u5	Mr President! Thank you for finally getting this new bill for infectious diseases to Parliament. Unfortunately, it took a long time, but it was better late than never. The Minister has already presented its content so that I do not go through its details, but I would like to point out that a significant part of these changes are, for example, those relating to hygiene measures which are already being used, which are recommended and which are also being followed by companies, even though they are recommendations, and this proposal will then make them binding on the legal level. These are divided into three different parts, so that there are different restrictions on areas in the initial, accelerated and dispersal phases. If we think that restrictions can be the hardest at the time of spread, i.e. they can be closed down for two weeks, then in practice we have many areas where they are already at this stage, which in practice would mean that in these regions, such as here in Uusimaa, they could be introduced immediately. I am well aware that private operators must also be restricted to the extent that they are at risk of infection, but it must also be borne in mind that the way in which the risk can be reduced as much as possible must always be chosen, and not always that of putting a similar restriction on everyone with a large hand, is necessarily the right way in economic and human terms. This draft Act on communicable diseases gives the authorities, the local authorities, a great deal of authority to take these measures, which go to the site of the Constitution, in other words, the possibilities provided by the Emergency Act are slightly confused with normal legislation, and in this respect I hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will carefully assess this issue. Then, in this proposal, there is the possibility that patients can be redirected across municipal and hospital district boundaries to another area for treatment. That is what is happening at the moment: we are working with the hospital districts, different hospitals are working together, and in a very positive, constructive spirit this is being done with the various actors. And when the work is done for the patients, in this bill this could be done to the law that it would be an obligation to do so. As such, I understand the idea that is being sought here, but there are a lot of open questions: who is making the decision, on what grounds, and whether there will also be a replacement for those areas that will then receive these patients legally, something that they will have to get more staff there — their own care lines will also increase, and the cost of these municipalities and hospital districts will increase. It will remain open in this proposal, as will the reimbursement of costs to private operators, to what extent and in what way it will be done, remain vague. These should be specified. What is good about this in my opinion is that the practice of religion is also included here, because these events are of course such risky events where they are sung. I understand that religious actors have been very well aware of hygiene restrictions, most of them working well, and many church deliveries are carried out at a distance. But it is important to bring this here because there are cases in which there have been large-scale transmission chains from these events. Then there is also the possibility of putting more customers in other medical districts, or also in housing units, including child welfare facilities or elderly units, than in a normal situation, even so that there can be different customers — which will remain open, which means that they would not have to be the same, such as older people in the place of the elderly. It also remains open whether or not adults can be placed in child welfare facilities and on what basis. This is very vaguely now stated in the law, and it would also need clarification. Mr President! What I am wondering is that, after many months of drafting this bill, why has this package not taken on the possibility of a face mask obligation, it has been introduced in the regions. This would, however, ensure the safety of both workers and customers in the regions and would be a significantly lighter measure than changes at the level of preparedness. I would like to ask Minister Kiuru: Why has it not been included? Would it be possible now, during the work of the committee, to add to it, because I have made a legislative initiative on it and the articles that have been prepared would be ready and this is also Rule 58? Open?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u6	Mr President! Here we are now bringing to Parliament the proposal of the Act on communicable diseases, which extends the regional scope for restrictions. First of all, I would like to say that we already have the possibility of different restrictions in the regions, but they are unfortunately used in different ways in different regions. Unfortunately, however, in the HUS region, for example, which currently has the highest load of infectious diseases in terms of the corona, it seems that the municipalities are still battling against these restrictions. This would have been an opportunity, among other things, for HUS to recommend the transition of schools to remote education for secondary school pupils on its website. But it disappeared from HUS's website, and then yesterday we had a decision not to do this because they say that social problems are so great. This would have been a few weeks, and I am very surprised at this activity in our capital region in this regard, given that these same children are going on Christmas holidays. In other words, if, in practice, absenteeism from school would cause as big a problem in Finland as is now being suggested, we could not have children on vacation at all. I am surprised at this, and I am not quite sure, in all respects, that such an increase in rights will, however, be the solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u9	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Susanna Pirttiaho, director of the elderly services in Pieksämäki, has described: “This is like a state of war or a major accident. “ We are in a very serious situation. I believe that we absolutely need a masked mask in Finland. It allows us to protect each other and the citizens. We need a masked mask in Finland. I ask you, Minister, would that be possible? Mr President! There is a law on the amendment and temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases. This bill proposes, inter alia, — and I am now dealing with Article 9a — that care facilities may be added to the health care unit or treated by patients other than the health care unit should normally be provided, that customer places be added to the social care housing service or institutional care unit or that the services provided to customers other than the unit should normally be provided or that the social care housing service or institutional care unit should be involved in the patient health care process in accordance with the decision. In addition, the Regional Administrative Agency may, subject to the implementation of the proposals provided for in its area of activity, oblige the municipality or joint municipal authority to provide social and health services to customers and patients who are not responsible for organising the municipal or joint municipal authorities. Mr President! These are important issues that are being discussed today. This package of laws is extremely large and tight and puts a lot of changes in the field of social welfare and health care. I would like to ask you, Minister, how to secure these possible transfers of care units and the transfer of patients and the opening of new places. I would also like to ask whether the law means that over-the-counter clients and patients are being treated. If that is the case, that means an extra amount of resources for the carers, to which I shall turn next. Finnish Amnesty has given recognition to nurses during the corona period. Amnesty has said that the corona has violated the rights of nurses. Amnesty’s Finnish department has awarded the Canttilä Prize of the Year to all healthcare professionals in Finland, and thank you for the work that healthcare professionals are doing in these difficult circumstances. They risk their own health while caring for the rest of us, and I feel that for 25 years in the care industry, we decision-makers do not understand this. But what is being done in the world? In Iceland, Germany, Norway, the Netherlands, France, Wales, Austria, Portugal, Belgium, the Czech Republic and Sweden, account has been taken of the fact that nurses also need their respect and appreciation financially. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to have a corona allowance for carers, and I think it is important for the government to say so too. I think it is mainly a word when it is said that Parliament cannot decide on wages or that it is not possible to talk about wages in Parliament. What do you think those nurses are thinking about a long line of work and a week after week? It is really, really exhausting and exhausting and raging, and I hope that it will be possible to say out loud here that if these health - care warriors fall, none of us will get treatment. Where are we going if we continue to oblige additional places for care units and nurses to stretch out, to do care tasks for which they may not have training or skills? Then we will also reach that border area of patient safety. Indeed, it is said here that the care unit, the operating unit, must be involved in the implementation of patient health care. We have many different kinds of sick people, we have elderly people, we have elderly people, we have disabled people with different kinds of health care. So this is what I am asking you now, Minister: are you having a debate about the possibility for the government to provide support, just as millions of Finnish companies have been supported? Millions have been given to companies, but of the ants who do the work in the field, no one here is talking. And if you ask and you talk, you say these don't belong to Parliament. When we ourselves are in that hospital as patients, what do we say? Are we saying this was none of our business? Or when our loved ones are there? Take a look at Sweden and Europe elsewhere and see what is happening there. Seriously, if the elderly service director of Pieksämäki, Susanna Pirttiaho, has said and described the situation in Pieksämäki, a small rural town, that ‘this is like a state of war or a major accident’,we are in danger of going our way. Here in the capital region, the situation is very demanding. Mr President! With these words, this bill will come to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and we will certainly go there for a rigorous and precise explanation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u10	Mr President! The spring exceptional circumstances revealed that the legislation on normal conditions is inadequate in the fight against a generally dangerous pandemic such as the corona epidemic, and it is therefore good that we are now able to deal with this. However, amendments to the Act on communicable diseases were expected as early as October and were promised there, when it would have been possible to bring it into force before Christmas. The government is now bringing important and thorough legislation together before Christmas and work break. We will be discussing the 1600-page social welfare reform on Monday, and there is a risk that the work of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will go a long way and that the entry into force of this legislative package will be postponed until the spring. This proposal must, however, be dealt with very carefully and, in particular, changes to the fundamental rights of citizens require a careful assessment by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This package of laws gives authorities new powers to intervene in their own decision-making by other authorities and also by traders and communities. The regional government authorities and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health could take decisions directly over or above the responsibility of organising an individual municipality and the municipality could take decisions that impose hygiene and restriction obligations on the private trader or even temporarily close the premises. Over the autumn, we have seen unpleasant outbursts due to tensions between national and regional actors, which is not conducive to strengthening public confidence in the regulations and recommendations adopted, and it is serious if political tensions and reasons of prestige undermine the necessary cooperation between the authorities and political leaders. It is therefore desirable that this legislation should not lead to additional tensions in the activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the regional authorities and the municipalities, since the public's confidence in the basis of the measures taken by the authorities is very important. In other words, operators and citizens who are subject to restrictions must also feel that treatment is fair and justified. For example, the churches have closed the church service halls on the basis of the recommendations given to the public and the most beautiful Christmas songs are not arranged, but at the same time the questions have been asked as to why 200 people can be hugged at the karaoke bar in the evening or why, at the same time the theatres and concert halls are closed, the shopping centers are lined up in crowded rooms. This bill really concerns the fundamental rights of citizens, the rights of private traders and also the freedom of religion. And I think it is a good thing that the government did not extend this Article 58g that allows for the closure of the premises. These provisions of Articles 58c and d have now also been applied to churches, churches and other religions in relation to the practice of religion, but in relation to the version in the consultation. At the time, it was mainly the free thinkers who had responded to this. And I would like to say that religious communities have actually followed the recommendations and guidelines that have already been issued in a very specific way, such as hygiene, safety distances as well as the closure of premises for parishioners, but, in principle, I think it is very important that attention be paid to the fact that we have a very strong space for religious freedom, both in the Constitution and in the international human rights obligations binding on Finland. If religious freedom were to be affected so strongly that the authorities, that is to say, the individual authorities, could order churches to be shut down, I think it should be done through exceptional circumstances and the emergency law, not on the basis of ordinary law and the judgment of individual authorities. And yes, in my opinion, the whole of the Constitutional Committee should be very careful to assess both the impact of these Articles 58c and d on freedom of religion and then the impact of Article g on the freedom of traders, and it may be asked whether it would then be better to proceed with such a strong approach to these fundamental rights, in fact through the Emergency Act and exceptional circumstances. Fortunately, in this package of laws, these are fixed-term, i.e. they are set to remain in force until the end of 2021 and to deal with this covid epidemic in a tailor-made manner, but I personally hope that there will be no direct interference with fundamental rights in a permanent package of infectious diseases, especially in the area of freedom of religion. This question of compensation is very important and there was no reply from the Minister in this presentation, and, quite vaguely, it has been said in this proposal that the state can replace it. However, there may be significant costs for municipalities as well as for traders for possible closures and also for various hygiene measures, so I hope that the Minister will answer these questions. And finally, this carrot for the nurses must:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u11	Mr President! This supplement to the Act on communicable diseases provides a more robust backrest for regional actors in the fight against the corona virus. The proposal stresses the need for action, but also the timeliness of measures to stop the spread of the epidemic. The flow of information and cooperation between regions is crucial to the success of the anti-pandemic measures. Securing children's and young people's daily lives is essential, and there are few new actions in the proposal for basic education or early childhood education. Restrictions on hobby activities are introduced only if the disease situation so requires. It is good to remember that the sooner we get infectious diseases in each area down, the sooner we get back to normal everyday life and hobbies. It is worth noting that the proposal defines as a last resort a means of considering, for example, increasing the amount of care debts, and this only provides for the resolution of unsolicited care in that situation. Similarly, as a last resort, where security intervals or other measures already taken cannot be considered sufficient due to the specific risk of infection associated with the activity and where this is necessary to prevent the uncontrolled spread of the epidemic, a regional authority decision is allowed to close the premises open to the public or intended for the stay of a limited customer or participant group to customers and participants. Mr President! It is good that increasing levels of infectious disease do not immediately trigger emergency conditions again in Finland, but that normal-time legislation provides legal frameworks that allow authorities to act quickly and decisively. On the other hand, it is also a good thing that certain restrictions on fundamental rights and services also remain locked up in the introduction of the Emergency Act. I believe that a balance has been struck between these two situations in this draft law. It is good to remember that probably this will not be the last pandemic facing mankind, and it is therefore good that we have a legal package that will provide a good capacity to act quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u12	Mr. Speaker! Minister Kiuru and representatives of Mr Werner and Mr Soinikoski have already given good reasons for the necessity and urgency of this proposal. After all, it is proposed in the entry into force period that the law should enter into force as soon as possible. Unfortunately, this is not the best time for Parliament, but it is the most urgent time due to the epidemic situation. In my view, this proposal must, in contrast to the normal timetable, be dealt with in both the actual substance committee and the Constitutional Committee by January at the latest, in order to avoid the fate of most European countries in terms of the extent and depth of this disease, for example, the burden of treatment capacity, in February, which is the case in almost all of Finland. This pain, of course, is compounded by the fact that a significant part is proposed to enter into force on a temporary basis during this epidemic, just until the end of December. After all, the need for these is evident from the current situation. This proposal has also given due consideration to the relationship with the draft budget. There are already significant resources in next week's budget for next year, but then an additional budget early in the year will be able to allocate more resources, for example, to the relevant authorities. But once reference has been made to these compensations in this debate, here, if and when certain business activities have to be completely closed down, there will be management of the compensation arrangements, the compensation arrangements that were made for restaurants during this year. In fact, we are now better able to make models where they are better targeted for companies, so that, especially for those companies which, when they close down, have to pay significant costs ahead — for example, rents may be very large — compensation for this type of cost support model is quite successful on the basis of experience already gained. The sequence of adjustments here seems to be very carefully drawn up. In this current epidemic, both the legislator and the decision-making authorities will have to weigh up fundamental rights and seek a state of justice in which fundamental rights can be fully realised. The regulation proposed here as a whole will enable the public authorities to protect the health of the population, but at the same time the aim is to ensure that freedom of industry, freedom of religion, the protection of property, freedom of assembly and association and cultural rights are fully realised. This balance appears to have been successful in these proposals. After all, we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have, in this year's time, said on this very issue what to do in order to achieve effective action against the pandemic, but not to unduly violate the rights of justice, fundamental rights. In its reports during the time of the Koronapandemia, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stressed the priority given to the legislation of normal conditions and to the competences which are as little lacking in fundamental rights as possible. This is what we are trying to do with this change. A key element in assessing regulatory proportionality is the gradual approach to the regional disease situation. More stringent measures will only be taken by the authorities as less stringent measures or measures taken by operators to combat the spread of the epidemic are no longer sufficient. After all, in this covid-19 pandemic, there have been significant shortcomings in the Act of Preparedness with regard to the regulation of such dangerous epidemics. It goes back to the regulatory history of adding a pandemic-type dangerous disease with a rather light preparation, and it did not give sufficient thought to what specific powers would be needed so that there would be a gap. The need for reform of the Emergency Act has been identified and it would probably be a good idea to launch it in the coming year. Secondly, changes to normal legislation have just been proposed in order to do better. There are then two routes: these permanent changes, which are suitable for similar situations at the future stages, and then these temporary changes, which have been tried to be timed according to how long this pandemic is thought to last. The solution adopted here for these changes until the end of next year seems justified. The main tragedy at the moment is that such extensive powers of exception are already needed. How long is the delay in this legislative process now going to be a key issue? The longer it takes, the more likely it will be to have to re-use the Emergency Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u13	Mr President! We have a very good infectious disease law. I think I have said here in plenary once or twice that it would be good if we all had studied it carefully, because so many times we have dealt with the issues involved here. It has provided a great deal of means, but quite enough is not enough for this situation, as we have seen. We have had to add a number of points, such as Article 54a on the regulation of restaurants, and now there are further additions to this proposal which relate, above all, to the regulation of space and movement that collects people. Then there is Article 9, which contains much of the same things as Article 86 of the Emergency Act. at the moment, that is to say, the article which allows the government to take strong measures to direct the entire health system to deal with such a pandemic situation, not only in relation to transfers and division of labour within the public system, but also in relation to the private health system. It is understandable that these matters and the draft articles must be examined very carefully. I understand, however, that one of the reasons why we have them here in a certain way only now, in mid-December, is that the background discussions have already shown how many things may have to be weighed against each other, and then there are strong views, so I am sure that this further discussion will show that a great deal of different weighing will have to be done. However, I myself would like to emphasise — and I am not at all a member of the people who detract from the importance of business and economic activity, because I understand that it is the basis on which everything is based, both the health system and everything else — that these additional clauses and the whole of this legislation, which we are now dealing with with, with various limitations, this pandemic situation, are only done and only for extremely dangerous and rare situations. Here both Mr Rantanen and Mr Soinikoski referred to the fact that this covid-19 epidemic will not be the only epidemic, it has not been in retrospect, nor will it be from now on, so we must have up-to-date legislation to manage all these situations. I would like to use a few words to describe — in the light of my own personal assessment, in the light of all the public and general statistics — what this situation is at the moment, and I share the views of those who are here, as Mrs Juvonen, for example, said that the situation is very serious, quite alarming. The incidence rate in the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa, i.e. per 100,000 inhabitants in the last 14 days, is very close to 200. Then we have more than 100 but less than 150 in Päijät-Häme, Etelä-Savo, North Ostrobothnia and Varsinais-Suomi. So we have a total of 3 million Finns in such areas where the incidence rate is now well above 100. Then we still have about half of the remaining medical districts in that 50-100 section. That's not what I'm listing here. After all, this situation went through in the autumn, in the light of the figures, so that in mid - August these new infections began to reproduce quite peacefully. It continued to grow in September, but a strange situation occurred in October: it stopped. Is it, then, that it led to some sort of misconception as to what this so - called second wave will be like? At the beginning of October, the incidence rate was 53 to 54, and over the next five weeks it decreased to 46 until 19. On 1 November, daily infections rose from 200 to 400, and recently we have been able to read 500 and even over. And when, about two weeks ago, a rather strong debate was initiated, to which reference has been made, more intensive measures were taken, I claim that they are still nowhere to be seen. So my conclusion is that our measures are not strong enough. Of course, another scenario can always be presented, that the situation would be even worse, that we would now be in Chapter 1000 or something like this if those measures had not been taken, but I think the most important conclusion is that we are very close at the moment to the situation to which Mr Koskinen, for example, pointed out that, when we are not yet in a position to be ready for this legislation, then the use of the emergency law is very close. On Wednesday, 9 December, the Prime Minister said to the media that if the burden on health care starts to be too strong, then we need to introduce a preparedness law. I would say quite frankly, and I dare to say this publicly: we are now very close to that situation. In particular, I am referring to Article 118 of the Emergency Act itself. It does not help that we are discussing how many patients we are able to treat in the ICU — everything needs to be taken care of, that is clear — but we need to take stronger measures to ensure that there will be no more patients at that rate, and I think that this will require us very soon to have Article 118. I would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report. We all get contacts, I have heard colleagues refer to them here. I myself recently received a communication which referred to East Turkey and where the concerned person said that schools have now been placed in remote education from the fourth grade in Turku — unlike in Helsinki, where the epidemic situation is twice as bad — but the supermarkets, shopping malls are full of people, and Christmas is approaching.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u16	Mr President, värderade talman! The government's proposal is important and worthy of support. We must be able to introduce all possible means to prevent the spread of deadly diseases, and we must be able to do this quickly, decisively and effectively if necessary, without unnecessary delays. At the same time, however, one important principle must be borne in mind: the last resort for restrictions on business activities. Public authorities cannot restrict private business activities except for very strong reasons. This is the reason for an uncontrolled pandemic. The Government's proposal takes into account the last location of the restrictions on business activities and contains several fixed-term articles. The proposal rightly complements the current Act on communicable diseases and significantly enhances our efforts in the fight against the pandemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u17	Mr. Speaker! We are now dealing with the Government's proposal for a law on the amendment of the Act on Diseases and the temporary amendment of the Act on Diseases. I shall now read one of the reasons for this point: ‘In accordance with the law, the mainnutritional activity of which is to provide the public with a fee for alcoholic beverages in a foodhouse intended in the Food Law The regulation may limit the number of customers of other restaurants by up to 25 % of the above-mentioned largest customer or person. The Government decree may restrict the opening hours of the restaurant business between 23 and 05 hours and the supply of alcoholic beverages between 22 and 09 hours.’ I would like to say and stress that this is my own personal reflection on the matter and, at the same time, I am bringing a message here from a number of restaurant entrepreneurs who have contacted me. No one disputes that this corona epidemic should be brought to an end as soon as possible and that this must be taken seriously. But you still have to remember and think about what's next. I think we should do everything in our power now to prevent companies from going down. This is a big thank you to the government for having already supported the companies. We must remember that our companies and their employees pay those taxes to make society run. I am taking the floor because I wanted to ask whether it would be possible for restaurants to keep their restaurants open and give them a little longer. Entrepreneurs tell me that today’s sales are focused on specific times. In addition, the slightly extended opening conditions would smooth the flow of customers. The current situation is also what Mr Rantanen mentioned, that no one knows how to deal with certain areas. Here too I would like clarification. Mr President! To conclude, I am disappointed at the fact that the restaurant sector is almost blacked out by this corona epidemic in general. It must be remembered that they are, among other things, self - control and hygiene professionals, have been before the corona and have been especially during this corona. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u18	Mr President! The national epidemic situation has deteriorated significantly in recent weeks. The changes are now rapid and wavy, and local infected clusters can form, grow and spread rapidly. The situation is explosive and there is a real chance of an even more significant worsening of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u21	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. A few questions and comments. I looked at this government proposal on page 68, which reviews the location of intensive care according to the assessment made by the covid-19 coordination group on intensive care, as regards the current situation and the achievable situation. It is stated here that there are currently 67 patients who are ready to be treated and, if I understand correctly, there would be 4 places in Åland. It is then further stated that if surgery is restricted to on-call and urgent surgery only, and the personnel being released are transferred to intensive care, the intensive care capacity will be temporarily increased. And here it is calculated that they would be for up to 285 patients according to the estimates of this government proposal, which is apparently based on the estimates of this covid-19 coordination team. And according to the government’s proposal, the 285 intensive care facilities would mean that the number of patients would, however, put hospitals under extreme pressure and seriously impede the treatment of other diseases. — This is a very serious situation at the moment. I know a lot of people who haven't even been invited to mammograms, so let's see what kind of care debt this is going to give us. But now I ask you, Minister Kiuru: 19.3. you have told us in a newspaper interview that we have 300 intensive care facilities, and in that case it was that it means more than just the amount of breathing equipment. Well, it is now stated in this government proposal that this figure, which was then stated in March, is also falling short. You say that you now have the primary task of raising this to a thousand — I understand, therefore, that somehow by means of equipment and by means of retraining — and now I ask where this 700 gap comes from. Has the Minister been misinformed then, have you not been able to lift it to a thousand places? I'm wondering about this news coverage, and I'm sure people will. Do we really have the situation that if, for some reason, we have hundreds of patients, that we do not have the thousand places? What do we do then? Shall we start choosing who we can get there? This is very confusing. We are talking about the fact that people should be calm, but of course things of this kind are confusing, because when I looked at this myself, I immediately paid attention when I was spinning it 1000 in that number that it is good that we have this kind of opportunity. Then it has been said here that this goes to the Constitutional Committee, which is a great thing, because there are very sensitive issues of fundamental rights here. In the previous speech, the left-wing representative pointed out that we should give the Committee on Constitutional Affairs peace, and I also hope that Members will give that committee peace of work. I have been following this debate and policy in recent days with great concern. I was there last season, and we were dealing with the mess. I am very concerned, because this proposal is also such as many others, that we must be able to trust others here in Parliament that they have been going through well and neutrally. For example, I am the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and I always look forward to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs coming in, which are the terms of reference. But if this is now such that this begins to waver into such politics, then can we now trust what the meaning of its statement is. That is what I am very concerned about and I hope that the group chairmen will be training with all the representatives on what it really is. Then I would like to say a few words about these traders. I personally believe that we should do what is necessary and that everyone should take responsibility for acting responsibly, but we must not instigate any kind of panic, and this is, for example, the sufficiency of care facilities. I think that people have to go to the store and run errands, and no one can go home and lock themselves up. It must be understood that people must be able to move, and no matter how careful it is, there can always be infections, and then there must be enough of that medical staff. There is now a rather limited presence here and there is a limited presence of ministers, even though this is a very wide-ranging proposal, and, in fact, through Minister Kiuru, I am sending a message — you will certainly not be able to answer this — to that government. There will be crazy feedback when there are various restrictions and recommendations, especially from tourism entrepreneurs and also from self-employed people. There are a lot of cancelled markets and such market events, have been done everything, the restrictions have been cancelled, and there are really trouble there. One of these small withdrawals that I want to make: very much at the moment, donations depend also on these husky dog entrepreneurs. If you've been watching the media, you'll be crying in your throat when you're supposed to put them all down. I would like the Ministry to take note of such specific items that this is not just a matter of private donations. I am happy to support the fact that we could make some kind of allocation from this Parliament. You could find out, and then you could hand over the money to these people in nursing. Surely we can give money to the public sector at least, as private operators have done. This applies to housekeepers and to all those who are in a lot of service with other people, taking food home, exposing themselves daily so that this society works properly for us. Yes, we can think a little outside the box in this exceptional situation, as many Members have pointed out, we do not have to rely solely on what seems possible in normal times. I warmly support and hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will make this point in its report. And I think it was Mrs Juvonen who brought it up first, and I am happy to support the beautiful and good ideas of the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u22	Mr President! In the light of the discussions that have taken place today, we can say that there is a common problem here, a common problem between both the government and the opposition, which we should also be able to resolve together. The problem is both health and economic, and it is very difficult to balance the two, as Mr Sarkkinen has pointed out very well here. In the spring, we were surprised, should I say, like, with my pants down, with this pandemic. This is the kind of global pandemic that has been talked about and television sets made and watched, but we didn't really believe that one would ever come. And the same was true when the infectious disease law was adopted. It is concrete, the experience of the situation, such a pandemic, that has been incomplete when it has been made. In that sense, one might find some golden edge here that we now have information. For almost a year now, we have been running around and having a little bit of a tumult and decided to go there and this way, in other words, there is already experience of what kind of infectious disease law we should have, so that the measures that can be taken through it are as convincing as possible. In that sense, I hope that, now that we are dealing with these temporary proposals on this current pandemic situation, more permanent solutions will also be taken into account, because vagueness will fuel suspicion and confidence in all the measures that are being taken, regional and national measures, and unfortunately there are indications of this already across the country. The big concern is that the business community should intervene in this bill as a whole. I am very concerned about the rise in fixed costs for entrepreneurs, for if we now have legislation to fix up the premises and call on them to be covered by insurance once it has been made by law and so forth, it will cause an increase in insurance premiums and so on and so on. So the fixed costs are going up, and then this is going to bring down the companies. This should be taken into account in this reading. I therefore hope that there will be long-term, long-term, wisdom and care in committee, not only on the health side, but also on the part of this entrepreneurship side. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u23	Mr President! At this stage, it is clear that any restrictions or amendments to the Act on communicable diseases will not stop the pandemic, but will, at best, only slow it down. According to the recommendation, corona vaccines are first offered in Finland to health care personnel treating corona patients and staff in care homes for the elderly. The elderly are also here mainly in the queue, and the third group to whom the vaccine is primarily offered are people with diseases that are susceptible to severe coronavirus disease. Of course, the nature of the vaccine and the medical risk assessments will depend on the order in which it will eventually take place. Nevertheless, I am not in favour of having to have a vaccine. Prime Minister Marin has said that vaccination for the entire population is perhaps going to take place next autumn and even later. It should be remembered, however, that Finland, for example, with Malta, was left at the feet of other countries with swine flu vaccines. This has been learned in Malta and elsewhere, and they have already received the vaccine, and the whole island kingdom has received the vaccine by summer, as have many other countries. In Britain, for example, vaccination is in full progress. They've learned a lot from before, too. But in Finland, Prime Minister Marin has backed up solidarity in the distribution of corona vaccine. They say we have to shoulder global responsibility. This means that other countries receive the vaccine in a forward-looking way and Finland looks on the side with fear of vaccine nationalism. You would think that the health of your own citizens would be the most important thing for the country's leadership, even more important than, in itself, a virtuous way of paying attention to the citizens of the rest of the world. However, every Finnish victim is too much. The Prime Minister has said that we must strive internationally to get the vaccine in less prosperous countries. This means, for example, that wealthy countries do not store up all the vaccines, but try to distribute them equally across countries. The question arises as to when so-called political capital is being used for the benefit of its own people, because it seems that Finland is also a foreign country. It would be healthy to show even a tiny amount of healthy national self-esteem in this matter. However, the most important issue is the health of the citizens. It is valuable that the Parliament should update and improve the legislation so that this and future pandemics can be prepared with the experience gained. However, the European Union’s licensing process and joint procurement again show that Finland’s place is at the end of the queue, excluding the small batch at the beginning of the year. The right to buy corona vaccines is, of course, much more effective in the management of the pandemic than the personal sympathy in closed cabinets, where political capital is once again waiting for the person who raised it without success.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u24	Thank you. — Before we go to the second round, Minister Kiuru, 3 minutes, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u25	Mr President! I would point out that this proposal, when Mrs Lundén spoke about these restaurants, does not apply to restaurants. Furthermore, I would like to say to Mr Junnila that there are a lot of things in your speech that are not in line with the Finnish vaccine strategy, and in that respect I would like to give you, in particular, a few tips on the way in which you have already addressed those problems. So I just want to say that I hope that Parliament will, however, assume that this is a serious matter. Getting the vaccine to Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u30	I would like to say that, when we continue the debate, it is a question of amending and temporarily amending the Act on communicable diseases. Let's focus on the things that touch these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u31	Mr President! This bill on infectious diseases, as has been pointed out here, comes very late and on the eve of Christmas, and it is not going to be possible to get it now, which is a pity. However, as Mr Lindén pointed out earlier here, the current Act on communicable diseases also provides a good opportunity to prevent the disease and the spread of the disease, and it should now be used as fully as possible. One thing I am raising now, when Christmas is coming, is this remote school education. Yes, everyone understands that if children were to leave school a little earlier, it would be those days before they meet their grandparents or others in high - risk groups — when we know that at Christmas, however, people in the family circle will meet. And at the end of the year, at this point, there are no more very important things at school in general — in any case without discounting the school’s activities, there is usually a slightly lighter program already at this stage. Could the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health not give stronger guidance to, for example, regional government agencies, which are under the authority of the Ministry, for the transfer of schools to remote education until Christmas? Well, then I would like to bring up the workload of this carers and the preparedness law, which has been flashed here in recent weeks precisely in terms of staff adequacy. Yes, the staff has stretched really significantly last spring and all this time and have been in a certain loose hang all the time. The fact that they are then threatened by a stand-by law does not make sense for their working lives, nor encourages and motivates them or attracts people into the industry. And I also believe that this financial compensation for carers is not a labour market issue, because there are many other things that are being distributed to the municipalities, so that the state could accept in this sense that they can earmark money to the municipalities so that they can distribute the interest subsidy to the carers. Finally, while the Minister is still here, I would like to ask: how does the Ministry intend to intervene in the wrong information which is now being cultivated in social media and through various channels of communication, which makes it difficult to prevent and control corona? Even neglecting hygiene instructions, is anti-face masks
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u32	I repeat that we are now dealing with the amendment of the Act on communicable diseases and its temporary amendment and focusing on those issues, those proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u33	Mr President! I had to get in this toilet when I wasn't sure if I could get all my stuff out in three minutes. As Mr Laiho rightly said, now that this Act on preparedness is being brought up, at least this will not help the nurses to cope if they are then forced to work under the law. But here I would like to draw particular attention to information and communication. We still have very confusing communication, it also comes from THL, and now we should stick precisely to the fact that we are talking about whether this is serious or not. On the other hand, if we get a message that this is not such a serious disease and that this is not such a serious situation, it is a very bad thing. We should now make sure that people understand hygiene instructions, the instructions for wearing masks. In spring, it worked excellently all over the world as a “stäykotto”, “stayhome”. Even now we should talk about people doing business in such a way that contacts become, as little as possible, only necessary, which means in practice work, grocery trade, pharmacy and health care offices. Actually, that's all you need. Then perhaps it would be a good idea to send a message that we should not go to the shopping centers for Christmas, but, if possible, order online, that is quite possible, and, if possible, that domestic companies should be used. This communication has, to say the least, been a bit sad to me. Good communication and — once again — people’s own actions could make it possible to avoid the need to do so much and to avoid the state of preparedness. It is certainly not in anyone's wishes and perhaps least in the wishes of health care staff and nurses at the moment. Instead, they would need respect, and if we were to talk about these... It is quite true that the social partners do pay, but just as much when Parliament distributes Christmas gifts, it could have been considered whether to build a gate in the middle of the forest or whether to give it to the carers. Well, then, about these restrictions on the business sector, the restrictions on the business sector, which are also covered by this law: it would certainly be good for Parliament to have an accurate debate on those compensations. It is now the case that when a municipality or a regional government agency makes that decision, I do not see the funding there that can provide these compensations to companies. I think this is a bit of a problem. Mr Lindén, you have pointed out here that there was a fall in the number of these infections in October, and of course it would now be extremely important to analyse what caused this fallout. As I recall, there must have been school holidays — was that right? — and now we are talking about schools not spreading, but, for example, in our capital region, 40% of the infection can be traced back to where it comes from. I think that these issues should be analysed in a good way as to whether there is perhaps a link between them and, in that sense, that would be very important, because these remote school issues have now been on the agenda. Then I would like the Minister to answer this question of intensive care, whether it is now 1000 or the maximum of what was proposed in this legislation, 200 things, and what is the cause of this gap. I would also like to see a statement on these issues of housing services for people with mental disabilities. And then, at the end of the day, I drew attention to the fact that the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Koskinen, already referred here to the next additional budget. I would just like to point out that when the government came out of its budget debate, where money was added, was there about four billion more in the budget, then the finance minister, Mr Vanhanen, immediately said at the press conference that this money was increased because there was no need to make an additional budget. Obviously, there is no sort of financial discipline on the part of the Marin government. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u34	Mr President! This legislation is now well described in these steps and measures to proceed from this baseline to the legislation of the acceleration and spread phase, and that is good. This provides a range of means for municipalities and regions, but this does not eliminate the need for coordination that is currently taking place there. We should be able to communicate and have that debate in some way — there is also a good mention here of these contradictions that may have existed between politicians and officials. [Leena Sea interlude] With effect from the entry into force of This law should be brought into force as soon as possible. The situation is getting worse and, as Mr Lindén well described here, the preparedness law is getting closer, especially with regard to restrictions on movement and residence. This law may not be able to help this situation, and it must be taken into account, but, as Mr Laiho has said here, we now have the means and the choice of means in the Act on communicable diseases and there is also legislation that will help us in this situation and allow tools to intervene in this situation. But with regard to the law of preparedness, this legislation and the other worsening of the situation, we must have the readiness to meet in this house on a very fast schedule if the situation so requires.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u35	Mr President! It is also proposed to lay down hygiene requirements for passenger transport, and the decision of the Authority may also limit the number of passengers under this proposal. I would like to ask the Minister: would it not be good to introduce this mask order, too, in relation to these means of transport? I was contacted by a person from high-risk groups who told me that, in order to get to work, he has to use three different public transport modes in one direction and he simply does not dare to travel to work now when masks are not used or the mask is very random. Of course, the regulation on masks would affect fundamental rights, that is clear, but there is much more to this proposal than the Constitutional Committee has to think about and consider and what affects the fundamental rights of citizens. Could this mask order not have been or could not have been included in these hygiene requirements, even to a limited extent, for example, in means of transport? My second observation is that this still applies to the various organisers of sports services, the providers of leisure activities, and I am concerned about the impact of the restrictions already imposed on the basis of these recommendations and regulations on the exercise of citizens, especially young people. The deterioration of young people's endurance has already become worrying news during this covid epidemic, and it must be remembered that if you consider these difficult forms of covid disease and the risk of, for example, hospitalisation and intensive care, it is also a matter of human fitness and weight control, for example, which means that overweight is a major risk factor alongside these other risk factors, including age. There is now a need for a variety of measures to encourage citizens to move, even in these circumstances. Of course, outdoor exercise is especially recommended, but there are a lot of young people and others who prefer to engage in indoor activities, if you think of different types of ball or wrestling and this type of hobby.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u36	Thank you. — It is up to the President of the Parliament to ensure that the debate is focused specifically on those matters which are the subject of the debate at the time. I hope that from now on we will remember that these two legislative amendments will be discussed here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u37	Mr President! Thank you for the well-managed parliamentary plenary sessions. The subject is such a rolling and broad one that, of course, each one of us is going to talk more about the corona. But, Mr President, paragraph 9a states that this law obliges ‘the social services or institutional care unit to participate, as decided, in the delivery of patient health care’, and asks the Minister about this:what does this ‘health care delivery’ mean? We are experiencing a major corona crisis, and in the spring of this year we already heard how many elderly people died in care units as a result of this corona epidemic, and then questions arose as to what kind of hospice care they have received, among other things, in the care units there. I've already done it on the 20th of I asked the Ombudsman for a complaint and asked him to find out what the situation of hospice care, the situation of care for the elderly and the treatment of care units, because no one knows what is happening there. Control visits have also been reduced — the controllers have not been able to get there but have been made by telephone — so I would like to ask what this means in this law, which is currently under discussion, the law on the amendment of the Act on communicable diseases and the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases. How is it ensured that care units have access to health care measures? So if you talk about health care being carried out, then you have to have care equipment, aids, medication, and trained personnel to give you the medicine. In particular, I am concerned about this hospice situation, for example in the case of corona patients and how it will be done in the case of elderly people there. Mr President! I was a little disappointed — although, Minister, you respond well — that you did not take a stand, that you did not say a word about this possible support for carers and how we are going to get those carers on the ground to implement this law, which is at this very moment before us. If we increase the number of customers and the number of patients, then the measurements we have at the moment will by no means be sufficient. And, of course, there is also a need for support staff: cleaning workers, equipment managers, transport service staff, so this is a big deal that we are dealing with here. I would also like to ask, Minister, about intensive care. The situation in Sweden is catastrophic. We're running out of intensive care, and things are getting out of hand. It has gotten out of hand, and we must do everything here in Finland that we are not in the same situation. In that sense, this bill is a good one, and I am in favour of further tightening up the constraint that we will be able to take control of this issue — and now it has been in our hands, but it will not get any worse. And, Mr President, I would like to thank the traders and the shops for the brisk grip they have taken in combating the corona, and I welcome the further emphasis on hygiene and the fact that hands and surfaces are kept clean and hand and face masks are available in shops, for example. I would like to emphasise that, and I will continue to ask whether it is not time to impose a mask on the face wherever we move, where we deal with people. Would it not be time for us to be one step ahead of what can happen here? Mr President! Religious communities are also involved in this bill, so I would like to ask you, Minister, to be sure that the restrictions also apply to events in religious communities, where there are many people, that the infections will then not spread. I have asked a written question and a policy initiative in relation to face masks and carers' pay review in this situation of interest. I will continue to do so and I hope you will take that into account. The municipalities have now been given extra money to combat the interest rate, the money they need, but there is still a little more money, and I hope that we will send out a message here that if we want to be able to implement the content of this law, we will need those workers, and we will also need all the students. There is also a need for students who are not necessarily in control of everything and who have not completed certain periods of training. Among other things, they have been introduced in these units, where coronavirus epidemics have occurred. So this question, still in connection with this bill, is: what does it mean to ‘carry out health care in social welfare housing or institutional care units’? Social care housing is a service for elderly people and for disabled persons, and when they are often domestic units, it lacks these very care equipment, aids, e.g. hospice care, euphemisms, oxygen. There are no medicine cabinets with triangular drugs, such as strong pain medications, morphine, which is usually needed at the last stage of man’s death. And these are big questions. I've been a nurse for 25 years, treated a lot of hospice people. I know how that goes, and I know what is needed there, and I am very concerned because social welfare housing units do not have the capacity. There may be skills, but there is no capability. How do we do this, Minister? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u38	Mr President! The introduction of this Act on communicable diseases is also important from the point of view that was raised earlier: for example, Mr Rantanen spoke about the need for communication, which was a very good point, and Mr Ovaska raised the issue of coordination. This is precisely the issue of communication and coordination, and sometimes it seems a little confusing. A good example was that of Minister Kiuru’s reply to my own speech. He pointed out that it would have been said that there would be a vaccine against health authorities and this. No one here has said that, no one, and certainly not. If the Minister's responses are as confusing as they are, then I have no question about the public's criticism of the Act on communicable diseases and the management of corona pandemic in general from a communicative and co-ordination point of view. As far as that is concerned — and it has also been mentioned earlier — that this is somehow contrary to the programme, I quoted Prime Minister Marin in the Evening Sanomat of 28 November. So that's where this information came from. But I would like to return to this point, just as the President has wished here on several occasions. I would also ask the Minister to answer Mr Juvonen's question in relation to Article 9a. This is very important, and it would also be vital in this context to have an answer to this question, which has already been asked many times. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u39	Mr President! On the opposition side, this special compensation has been requested several times, especially for those struggling with the corona epidemic in the front line. Now, of course, it is, as a general rule, a labour market issue, but if we have these exceptional measures, either under the new powers of the Act on Disease Control or under the Emergency Act, the longer and stronger the special measures are used, the greater the argument that, in contrast to the normal labour market mechanism, funds can then be allocated to staff groups subject to such a particularly difficult working pressure. And this will probably come under consideration in the future if such measures are taken. These changes in the activities of social welfare and health care services under Article 9 may have to be made for different types of epidemic, for pandemic reasons, including the rapid organisation of vaccination. When the vaccine is available, it may be a reason that requires special arrangements for these most critical individuals to receive the vaccine as quickly and comprehensively as possible. The representative, Mr Junnila, has made very false claims about this government's vaccination strategy. Although he left, there is reason to correct the fact that I myself asked a written question in the spring about how to ensure that the vaccine can be used as quickly and globally as possible so that the pandemic is actually effectively cut off. It is not a question of having one package of medicines, from which the states are waiting in line, but of making rapid access to the kind of agreements that these pharmaceutical companies, through royalties and licences, distribute as quickly as possible to mass production and to the various continents, and that is the strategy that makes it quickly and more affordable for everyone, rather than keeping them in line and fighting in blood. After all, Finland has participated in two international projects of this kind, which are precisely aimed at ensuring that all these effective and effective, safe vaccines can be delivered precisely in such extensive production and equal distribution.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u40	Mr President! There are also provisions on the monitoring of obligations in the proposal, and I would like to ask that in order to be able to monitor, how is it thought to safeguard those resources, that it is not mere rhetoric, but that proper control is actually possible, because there are great responsibilities attached to this proposal. My second concern is then a little different. Here it is proposed to close down sports, group sports and contact sports facilities and other similar sports and sports facilities, as well as gyms and other similar indoor sports facilities, and the general lounges of shopping centres would be included in this package. I very much ask that serious consideration be taken, especially with regard to leisure facilities. We already have an unfortunate group of young people going out of control, and it may be that hobbies are the only possible contacts with adults, and getting support through hobbies is very important. Health safety must, of course, go ahead, and health safety must be the top priority, but I think it is absolutely essential to keep these young people and children open to entertainment places, so that it does not become the case, then, in an unexposed group of adults, where serious accidents can occur. For some young people, an adult in these facilities may be the only adult who cares, and that is why I really hope, at this point, to exercise consideration and stability as to how we take care of our young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u41	Mr President! Now that this bill is so annoyingly late, it would be very important now to take advantage of all the measures that can be taken under the current Act on communicable diseases and also with various recommendations. Now we are following those intensive care facilities, but the important thing is also how much hospital care is needed, that is, how people cope with home care and when they will then rely on emergency care and the need for medical care. I have years of experience in emergency services, and Christmas—New Year’s time is always tight there when the staff have their own holidays, of course, because it has several holidays. It is therefore essential that open services work as well as possible on e.g. inter-days and other days, so that there is no reduction in activity. And especially now, in this epidemic situation, it would be quite desirable for this message from the government to be distributed to the regions, that these open services should function as properly as possible, so that the pressure on hospitals will be reduced when people are able to deal with them otherwise. Similarly, it would be desirable for elderly units to get things right before the holidays. Mr President! I would like to ask you again, when I have not received an answer to this question, and others have asked me about this face mask obligation, whether it would be possible to include it in this, because it is, however, clearly a lighter measure to prevent and prevent infections than, for example, not taking it and going into preparedness-type restrictions. The fact that they go past the face mask sounds strange. And the second point is really related to this guidance on distance learning: could we try to use guidance, a recommendation, now encourage regions to move to remote education before Christmas, so that these infections can be reduced?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u42	Thank you. — Again, for the third time, the debate must focus on these issues relating to this legislation, which is being amended.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u43	Mr President! A few more points. — It is indeed the case that the capacity for intensive care is not what comes out of this crisis, but precisely that it is the intention not to get caught up in it, which means strong measures in the affected areas, which are now being implemented in very different ways in our country and, unfortunately, I believe that this will continue to be the case. As far as these care and housing services are concerned, Article 9a, to which Mr Juvonen referred, is a very important issue. As we know, with people with mental disabilities, for example, there is no health know-how there, and in a situation where these articles are needed for use, there will also be no health know-how when they are needed in hospitals, and this is a question on which I hope the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will look closely at it. Then I shall return to this matter of communication. Now confusion is the problem that then some people start shooting and do not believe in the danger of the virus as a whole. There is a problem here that when a person does not believe that there is a general-risk infectious disease, which is therefore more deadly than seasonal influenza — I suppose it can be said when you look at the world — it is precisely this that they do not believe in this, when they start to spread it and believe themselves that it is not dangerous, and then they do not follow these restrictions and recommendations that have been made, and that is not going to help either. As far as the vaccine is concerned, it is certainly expected that the moon will rise in this Chamber, because the fact is that by vaccination we will bring about a herd shelter and thus get rid of this disease or at least mitigate its effects. But I would like to point out here the point that many of the debates have to make: very many people remember the swine flu disaster, and that is certainly something that is causing this suspicion of this vaccine now, because this too has been done quickly. I think that this is something that should be taken into account and specifically highlighted in the vaccine the facts very carefully, so that these people, who remember it, would have the courage to do so. In that regard, I also ask: Is the government prepared that if something goes wrong, it will not be the same kind of nonsense as in the reimbursements of narcolepsy? It must not be repeated, and this is something to which attention should be paid. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u44	Mr President! These temporary changes to the Act on communicable diseases, which are now coming to Parliament, are very necessary in order to tackle this pandemic precisely in accordance with this hybrid strategy, so that we can now have the tools available, you can say, all the necessary tools that can be used under normal conditions, and it is therefore important that this be dealt with quickly but carefully. We have to consider fundamental rights here, on the one hand, the right to health and others. I think they have been done in a balanced way here, and it is therefore good that this has now come. Mr President! When this is the background to this pandemic, the movements and waves of which we do not know — there are still many unknowns and many of us are waiting for the vaccine — I would also like to say, I would also point out to Mr Koskinen that the fact that Mr Junnila was trying to give the impression that the government would not do everything possible to bring the vaccine to Finland as quickly and as widely as possible, as if we were prepared to give up our share, is now simply not the case. When there is a lot of sensitivity to this debate on the vaccine, I would at least like to see — a debate that can and must take place — not try to create an image that is not true. I have understood — and I am not an expert on this matter — that it is precisely with these vaccines which the EU has concluded, as part of which Finland has been supporting and working on, that we are going through all the necessary stages and stages in order to ensure that it is safe, and clear communication is needed here. Then, at the same time, it is clear that this production must be produced around the world, and if it succeeds through international cooperation, it is not that we should give up something, but that it is also in the interests of Finland, that, throughout the world, the vaccine will provide protection to overcome this disease, and it will happen exactly as Koskinen said. I wanted to say this because the speech that Junnila made was intended to give a completely wrong impression of Finland's activities and also of this international dimension.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u45	Mr President! This is where I think Mr Malm made a good speech on this very situation of exercise. This section is replaced by the After all, these most robust activities are directed at team sports, group sports, contact sports, other similar sports and sports, gymnasiums and indoor gymnasiums. I am concerned, Mr President, that even now, in the course of these current measures and measures, the condition of the citizens, such as the sustainability of young people, has begun to deteriorate, and especially in the life of a child, a few months or years is a long time and may be completely weaned away from his pleasure in physical activity. Although restaurant restrictions have been imposed, restaurants are still open at night and quite late, and sports enthusiasts have asked if it is better to sit with friends in the restaurant than to be in those sports hobbies to care for your own fitness and health. These various restrictions, regulations and measures should be proportionate in such a way that citizens also feel that they are fair and fair in terms of health safety as a whole. I therefore hope that communication will also draw attention to this, that we will be able to maintain the public health and fitness of Finns even during these various restrictions. Of course, these different opportunities for outdoor exercise are very, very desirable and good in this situation, but we must remember that we people are different and have different preferences for physical activity as well. In some ways, I hope that, especially for children and young people, it will be possible to promote that they do not lose these sports hobbies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u46	Mr President! This law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible. I must say that some criticism is required of this coming to us at this late stage, and I ask you, Minister, how are we going to proceed now, whether Parliament will continue to operate for so long, immediately after Christmas, that we will have the power of this law as soon as possible, because these things really are in a hurry. Mr President! I also think it is important that communication and communication, both from now on and from this future law and from the interest rate situation in Finland in general, should only improve its running, and I would like some kind of latest information from that ministry to all the people. The borders are love, and the fact that each of us must now strengthen our own strength in that we are able to support our own children, our own young people, friends, those close to us, the elderly, so that we can endure the disciplines and suffering caused by this epidemic and the loneliness that this causes. It is important to encourage people to go out and out and organise various municipal walks, whatever ideas can be thought of. We can face one another outside, including the elderly and the elderly, and it is very important that, when these obligations are presented by the law to social welfare housing services, to institutional services operating units, we should think ahead of time about how meetings can be arranged. It must be possible outside, and it also requires the resources of its own resources. I have been talking about this global shortage of nurses, which is about to be around the world, including in Finland. I certainly hope that you will hear these demands carefully, that the carers — the whole staff, who are there, including non- carers — will also be appreciated with this particular corona. Mr President! How do we proceed from here? How urgent are we to bring this law to the finish line? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u47	Mr President! First, I would have the courage to take a stand on sports activities. It is true that there must be an opportunity, but somehow I would like to see such a common sense used now in the midst of an epidemic. It does not always need that equipment and space, but you can run and move outside, so in that respect I would like to see the people now also looking at such safe ways of exercising. But with regard to Mr Lindtman's remarks, in which he referred to Mr Junnila's speech, I would say that: Junnila here quoted directly from Prime Minister Marin's statements. Therefore, if you want to send out a message that the Finnish Government, the Marin Government, wants to ensure that Finns receive a vaccine, then it is worth sticking to that communication, not starting to babble about vaccines around the world, but telling you that the primary purpose is to vaccinate Finns. As far as the requirement for equal vaccination is concerned, I am sure that this is the case, but it is worth looking at the picture of the situation where this epidemic is the worst at the moment. Finland is not doing very well at European level in this situation at the moment, so that these vaccines are absolutely necessary here in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u48	Mr President! In these arguments for the amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, I find no clear justification for why further restrictions are needed. I would think that now that we have, for example, certain recommendations and measures that have been decided, they must also be monitored. What have the controls been, and what results have been achieved with regard to controls? I would think that if there is a pattern of behaviour, a course of action that increases the risk of infection, then those operators should be addressed. Have these controls been used, and have they had sufficient resources there? Now, why don't we hit him with a big hammer when we haven't taken care of that foundation? Shall we go too much to limit before we have treated those previous possibilities to treat this infection? I would also like to stress the importance of communication: it is very important that there is up-to-date, factual communication with the public and that it is consistent with the voice of the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u49	Mr President! This speech by Mr Laiho is in such a way a fair one, telling us well what it has been like to do in the preparation of the Act on communicable diseases. Let us be honest here with ourselves that this is no ordinary exercise. Mrs Laiho, in her speech just now, suggested why such tough powers are being introduced, and some of the people felt that wherever the tough ones were left. This is what it's been all this fall. I would like to say to you that if anyone thinks that under normal legal conditions this quartet would go so far as to make it possible for Parliament to have style-clean performances on the conveyor belt within a few weeks: it is not possible. We have to work so that these proposals have also been prepared as carefully as possible. It has to be said that, precisely in the light of the recent practice of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have set a level of standards for the explanatory statement of the proposal that we cannot bring here proposals which have not been sufficiently careful in terms of the order of reference and the impact assessments. I would like to say that we decided on this update of the Act on communicable diseases on 9.6. on the basis of the Government's policy, and this proposal was already on the table in September, and it was not even there for a month because of the pressure to prepare this proposal. This was already the subject of a consultation in September. I consider this to be a very rapid response, especially since it has been suggested that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has rested all summer — it has not been true. Since then, we have presented this legislation to both the government partners and the opposition during the middle of October, but since then there have been many points in this proposal which have to be corrected. These repairs have involved a huge preparatory network of representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior and the regional government authorities, and this group has met each week to jog these details on the basis of the debate that took place during the middle of October. It was a tough consultation. Criticism came to the fore, and there was a great deal of interest in this debate. I agree that I would have liked to have allowed less of this to happen, but that is what democracy has to do to prepare these issues. We received a preliminary inspection report from the Attorney General on 1 December, and this bill is already here. In this situation, I would like to say, given this history, that we will now be able to deal with it. I would have liked to have stretched even harder, but this isn't, as you understand, just one person's show. What is really needed here is a strong will to get this thing through here. A few details, and I hope I will be able to answer them, because I was not able to complete all these points just now. For example, Mr Räsänen and Mr Malm raised a number of points in section 58g. Congressman Malm was talking about youth facilities. Yes, we did not include the complete closure of youth facilities precisely because the municipality can do it itself in a critical case, and this has taken into account what would be reasonable in these activities. It should be borne in mind that the distribution phase involves two weeks of closure — two weeks of closure. In my view, in a situation in which the country is going into some parts of the dispersal phase, the two-week blockade does not undermine the foundations, Mr Räsänen, and also the large, long-term intention of making sure that children and young people are not excluded, but I personally agree that in the post-emergency world, we have a great deal to do to restore people's ability to function and well-being. Article 58g and the preceding paragraphs also take a position on freedom of religion. This issue was raised during the consultation. This freedom of religion was also discussed in a couple of evening schools with the opposition. I was there at the time, and there was a desire to be more specific about this. Now the starting point is for the authorities to be able to steer the action. Among other things, it is possible to impose a penalty payment on religious communities — I think Mr Rantanen asked — if they did not comply with this decision, but the actual freedom of religion is maintained here so that there will be no more severe restrictions. This is the situation that really led to this big debate. This was accompanied by a group from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education and Culture, and this was also discussed with religious communities. Thus, the authorities could not close the state of religious practice, as it would, according to our estimation, interfere too much with religious freedom. This was the conclusion of this debate. 58 g is a tough paragraph, but as I said, the Constitutional Committee is already under normal legislation. [The President knocks ] With regard to 9a, may I say a few more words, Speaker?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u52	Please, there will be more questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u53	Mr President! I have now been waiting in two speeches for an answer — this has now been asked, I asked, and then a few of us, Mr Rantanen, asked this question again. We have talked about information and information management, which of course affects how people feel, how safe they are and, above all, how the government succeeds in its task. You've had good grades. I still wonder about this difference, that is, when the government proposal states that there are 67 intensive care facilities and 4 in Åland at the moment, and here your proposal states that if non-urgent care is stopped, there will be a maximum of 285 seats, and in the spring of March you said that your primary task is to ensure that intensive care facilities are raised to 1000 places — which, I understand, means that there will be more breathing machines — then this 700 difference will be quite a big Gap if we cannot contain this, which I hope is something I personally hope for. I would like you to open this up, for what reason: has this been neglected, has this been a misunderstanding on the part of the ministry or the minister in March, or is there something here that I do not understand? What bothers me is that this is a huge difference. Then I myself will not criticise the fact that laws should be brought quickly. I do not quite understand the criticism here, if it is well done and necessary. I think that's a good thing. Perhaps I am more sorry that we in this House have, during the autumn, dealt with laws from various ministries, not necessarily from your ministry, that are not so busy and that are more ideological projects. These official resources could have been used to produce high-quality legislation, and that is what I am concerned about, because this is our number one issue. I also wonder at the idea of some — and I agree with the Minister — that we should limit ourselves, but at the same time we bring in different groups whose lives must not be restricted, who must still have a normal life. I think it is an unrealistic requirement, and the common sense understands that if you cannot do indoors, then we cannot go into it, as Mr Räsänen said, that we should now see to it that you can do indoors. After all, we must now be consistent as to which issue we are pursuing. I agree with the Minister on that. But this shortage of intensive care facilities worries me — if there is a blizzard and people go into intensive care — so that if I could get the next answer. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u54	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I must say that we have all been very tight here at the moment and throughout the past year, including in the committees. Very fast, very demanding presentations, very quick expert consultations, which must then have been able to produce the views. In other words, this pain is shared, which I am sure the Minister will also experience. I experienced pain in April, and I also sent a message to your ministry about this particular hospice theme that we have just discussed, which is now the subject of this new draft law. In other words, social care housing or institutional care units are obliged to participate in the care of patients. It has to do with this, that is, in principle the circle closes, which I was afraid of then, and what happened then will continue to happen. I argued here that, as a matter of urgency, hospice units are already being set up at regional and local level. I would like you, Minister, to continue to take this theme forward. Päivi Sillanaukee replied to me at the time from the Ministry and told me that it was a very important matter and that this should be done. That is the situation there in the care units when we talk about social care housing units that are domestic units is that there may not be a nurse there, there may be no medication there, there will be no medication, there will be people giving medicines, such as injections, there will be no care equipment, there will be no care equipment. If the remainder of the time when a person becomes ill with pneumonia, pneumonia, for example, and suffers from respiratory failure and slimyness, and possibly needs the help of an electric suction and that oxygen device, it is already challenging for the nurse to monitor under normal circumstances and it is challenging for the care unit to carry out that treatment, what is it at the time when it comes to the corona patient when they are absolutely shocking? That is why it is important that we ensure that there is... These devices are not so expensive, and it is already part of the basic training of nurses that you know how to supply and use oxygen, and they should be available. Take this up with my concern and my message because it's real. In every nursing unit where the elderly and the elderly are now dying of this corona virus, wrestling with these things. I'd like to ask you about infections of people with foreign background. There have been these clusters, and it has been well known, and the ministry and the corona fist have taken hold of it, and locally, too, information has been taken forward. How is this going to go further so that we can catch all these contagion clusters, because together we have to do this? And I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers to this work that you have done. Sometimes people have asked a lot of questions, because it is a very important subject. I'm asking for understanding. And once we've been in the opposition last season, I'm sure we'll understand each other pretty well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u55	Mr President! This is where Minister Kiuru described this finalisation of the law as being a chimurant, but in some way it would be appropriate to send greetings to the government, that, if we know medically how viruses spread, I think it might be a little strange that it should then be politicised that it is spreading here, but it is not spreading here. In this regard, perhaps we should concentrate on the most important legislative projects at the moment, instead, as Mr Meri said, these ideological legislative projects have been brought here, which are certainly not urgent in this situation. Actually, here on donkey night, here to the religious facilities. I understand that there are differences, but we know for sure in this House that we also have religious facilities that do not follow the instructions and recommendations and regulations at this point, and I find it extraordinary that they are not part of the fact that the authority can close down. On the other hand, however, we are dealing with the issue of business freedom and the protection of property. I find this imbalance strange. Article 9a I would like to say once again that when social care housing units start to make health care, how can it be done in practice when, in a situation where this article is needed, there are no health care professionals there, but there are actually people under the director's title, and even today there are people in these units who do not necessarily have any training in health care or social care. That is why there are directors there, that it does not limit the staff who come to work there, and this is actually a big problem. I do think it is right for Parliament to send a message that this must not lead to an inappropriate restriction of treatment for people with mental disabilities, for example, where problems have been seen much earlier in this country. I understand that if the power is full, then we will have to select, and that is what is being done at the moment, but it cannot be that these people who live in a particular place will be deprived of proper care. In my opinion, it is a totally intolerable argument that the place where you live should tell you what kind of treatment you are receiving and not what the situation is for the patient. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u56	Mr President! Here Mr Rantanen paged these religious communities, and I do have the impression, contrary to what Mr Rantanen said, that religious communities have already complied with these various restrictions very well and precisely on the basis of the recommendations. We have this one case in Jyväskylä, where it was a French-speaking African-based community, but, according to my information, it was not even a church service, but a birthday party and, as I understand it, not even a registered religious community, but such a free-form community, which, of course, are subject to the same rules and principles as other associations. If religious freedom were to be affected so strongly that the authorities would be able to impose, for example, the closure of churches or religious facilities, then I think it is precisely from the point of view of fundamental rights and because of the strong status of religious freedom that it should then take place under conditions of exception and the emergency law, not through ordinary legislation, which would enable the individual authority to take this decision. In other words, this is a very sensitive issue and it is a fundamental right which I do not think should be easily violated. I thank Minister Kiuru for having been able to sit here all this time and listen to us and answer, but I would like you to answer this question about masks. I am well aware that Mask Commands would also be interference with the fundamental rights of citizens, but there are many other ways of addressing fundamental rights here, and most European countries have these different mask regulations. I am thinking in particular of these carriers and the possibility for citizens to move on to public transport in a health-proof manner. Would this be possible, how do you think, if we could add this masquerade order to these hygiene rules?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u57	Mr President! In the context of the draft Act on communicable diseases, I would like to highlight these social welfare housing units, which would also require the provision of health care and the inclusion of additional residents. It is not quite this simple, as has been the case here in the debate. There is a certain level of competence and skills and it does not provide a direct capacity to care for health care customers in the same units and at the same time take into account the needs of the residents that are already there. And there may well be hospice patients who need more of that human resources and need proper care. In this connection, I would also like to point out that where a person is being treated, he does not go beyond any treatment. It is important to take this into account, because I myself have received the messages that it has been said that no one is being sent forward from the nursing home, that we have been directed in this way. And that is not the case, all people have the right to have an assessment of the need for care at all times in the situation in which it is. No one can be directed directly outside of treatment in advance. Then I would say a little more about these religious communities and the pursuit of the business. Now, in this bill, it is considered that two weeks can be allowed to limit the freedom to engage in business but cannot limit religious holdings — they cannot be closed down, but the premises of the trader can be closed down. So there are two fundamental rights here, and it has been considered that one goes ahead of the other. Personally, I believe that a funeral, for example, should be possible, but if there are such actual events, then it should apply equally to religious communities as to business activities. Then I would like to draw attention to this timetable. I am well aware that officials in the Ministry have been hard-working, they have had a lot of work to do, but they have been hard on many others. For example, they have been hard on the draft law on social services, which is not an urgent proposal, but you, Minister Kiuru, in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, have prioritised the draft law on social services before this urgent draft law on communicable diseases, so that we will not be able to get this important law to prevent this universally dangerous disease. And then on face mask duty: We have still not received an answer. Could it now be included in this bill for infectious diseases? There are sections for this, and that would be the best prevention. It does not violate anyone's fundamental right. Even now we are buying a bus ticket when we go to the bus or the subway — why not so easily demand that face mask by the time we get there?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u58	Mr President! I have listened to the good speeches of my fellow Members... [Leena Sea interlude] - Excuse me? — Yes, I am sorry, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u59	And Mr Rantanen and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u60	Mr President! Once again, I will return to this issue of freedom of religion. It may be that I think about this too simply, but somehow I would think that freedom of religion is for everyone and that is the way it should be. But then, when we talk about this section of religious holdings, when such measures are taken, I think it is unbalanced that we can go there for the protection of business property, but then we cannot close them down. It is certainly the case, as has been shown here, that some people take a very responsible view of these, among other things, these most popular Christmas songs, whether or not the church has been moved — in any case they are not being held — but then we have places that do not follow them. We also have a law in this country that there should be no violence, but we still have honour violence. We can't maim children. We still mutilate children. In some ways, I would think that this is the kind of ass that needs to be here too. Yet, everyone can believe, do it anywhere, even in this hall and at home, without interference with man’s freedom of religion. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u61	And Minister Kiuru, if you still want to.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u62	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the representatives for their participation in this debate. This is a question of what kind of instruments will be used to combat the infectious disease in the future, and this is not so unusual that it might still be possible for the next generation to come up with this situation in which we have now been in this last year. It must be said that there have already been smaller epidemics and others, and these updatings of the Act on communicable diseases are needed, and in this regard the question is precisely what Mr Laiho raised in his speech: can we therefore legally intervene in compliance with the recommendations? It's just not possible. And because that is not possible, that is why new instruments are being presented here today to make these recommendations real and legally binding. You have had a good debate here, for example, on the need for masks, and Mr Lindén said from another point of view that this too is a very challenging question. We had a debate today on sports facilities, the restrictions associated with them, whether we should be allowed to close, whether we should not, here we were discussing religious freedom. It tells us that these fundamental rights, which have been protected by the Constitution, are at stake today — and how far can those exceptions then be introduced in the legislation on communicable diseases as normal legislation? The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has previously stated in the Act on communicable diseases that there is an opportunity to stretch out here on the very side of restricting the freedom to conduct a business, because there has already been an opening of a clause to current legislation — or, in fact, an article. This logic is very sensitive to where we can make these new openings. This debate on the division of tasks in social welfare and health care, i.e. whether work is also being done on the social side: in that respect, it is a key issue. On pages 70 to 71, if you want to take a closer look, the criteria have been set out specifically to ensure that this possibility must not be misused, and I think it is all right that it has been raised in this debate, but I would like to stress to you that we also need to ensure that the arguments in this respect are in order to explain the cases in which patients could be treated in the social services unit. And this is an important angle that this does not go on either then over. Representative The sea asked about this whole package of intensive care, and Mr Lindén has already answered it in principle, but I would like to say that this is the very debate that shows how demanding the issues are. When we talk about intensive care in public, do we mean intensive care or intensive supervision? [Leena Sea interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u63	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 15/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Chairman of the Committee, represented by Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u64	Mr President! I shall briefly present the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on a proposal from the Board of Directors for a law on Finland's participation in the activities of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and related laws. The EU Regulation on the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor’s Office (‘the EPPO Regulation’) was adopted in 2017. The EPPO shall be composed of the central office in Luxembourg and the European Delegated Prosecutors in the Member States. It has the power to investigate, as an independent EU prosecutor, crimes against the Union budget and to prosecute those suspected of these offences before national courts. The government's proposal is about the necessary legislative changes to complement the regulation. The EPPO Regulation itself already has legislation directly applicable in the Member States. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights considers that the proposal is justified from the point of view that the legislation should be supplemented only to the extent that it is necessary to clarify the provisions of the regulation. The Committee on Legal Affairs also welcomes the proposal as a starting point for not creating solutions for matters falling within the competence of the EPPO different from those of the competent national authorities. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights supports the adoption of a legislative proposal with a few amendments, in particular those relating to the comments made on the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has called for the regulation to be supplemented with regard to the highest level of judicial review and the handling of ministerial charges. The amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights are likely to relate very rarely to the situations that arise, but to issues of fundamental importance. With regard to the highest level of judicial review, the Legal Affairs Committee proposes to the EPPO Act an informative reference to the rule that the law governing the legality of the Chancellor of Justice of the Government and the Parliamentary Ombudsman concerning the activities of the European Public Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor in Finland is laid down in the Constitution. The amendment proposed by the committee does not leave any doubt that the supervision of senior law enforcement officers is also directed at EPPO prosecutors. With reference to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Legal Affairs regrets that the role of senior law enforcement in relation to the EPPO Regulation has not already been evaluated during the preparatory phase of the regulation. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights notes in its report that in future projects such as this, attention should be paid to issues of this kind already at the negotiating stage. With regard to the criminal liability of EPPO prosecutors, the committee proposes to amend the Prosecution Service Act so that it is clear in the legislation who is accusing the EPPO prosecutors of possible criminal offences. The committee also proposes a provision in the EPPO on possible issues of ministerial responsibility. The opinion of the Constitutional Affairs Committee considers that the specific order of procedure for ministerial responsibility laid down in the Constitution and the increased threshold for prosecution are consistent with the situation of privileges and immunities referred to in Article 29 of the EPPO Regulation. The Regulation also provides for a request for the removal of such a right or freedom. In this context, the Legal Affairs Committee proposes a provision in the EPPO Act, according to which ‘If the request for the waiver of special rights and freedoms referred to in Article29 of the EPPO Regulation concerns a member of the Council of State, It shall be determined by the Chancellor of Justice or the Ombudsman by applying, where applicable, the rules governing the handling of matters of judicial review.” The term ‘applied elements’ can be considered as referring before all the In practice, the European Chief Prosecutor shall make a request under the Article to the Chancellor of Justice or the Parliamentary Ombudsman, who shall then treat the request as a matter of his jurisdiction in accordance with his/her discretion and shall, at his/her discretion, proceed with Article 115 of the Constitution. the measures provided for. In its report, the committee also proposes to lift the prohibition of appeal proposed in the conflict of jurisdiction between the national prosecution authority and the EPPO so that the decision of the district court can be appealed to the Supreme Court. Access to the Supreme Court requires permission to appeal. Unfortunately, in the case of Finland’s accredited European prosecutors, the negotiations on pay and side-costs of pay are still under way. The Legal Affairs Committee considers it justified that the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of Finance and the Office of the Prosecutor General jointly examine how the rights of authorised European prosecutors operating in Finland to social security and pension under the national system are organised. It is important that, when negotiating the initiation of the EPPO's activities, the European Delegated Prosecutors should be given the best possible rights, including with regard to these fees and benefits, and that the situation has become clearer before the EPPO starts its activities. The organisation of social security in exactly the same way as for national prosecutors would require, according to the current assessment, amendments to the law. Any changes will therefore remain to be taken care of separately from the Government’s proposal before us. In addition, the committee proposes to amend the provisions on the entry into force of the legislative proposals so that the laws enter into force at the time laid down by the Government Decree. This is related to the fact that the exact date of initiation of the EPPO is not yet known. According to current data, operations could start at the earliest in the first quarter of 2021. Proposal for a decision of the Legal Affairs Committee: ‘Parliament adopted the proposal for a regulation The report by the Legal Affairs Committee is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u65	Mr President! I have been here in Parliament for less than two years now, and I must say that this EU pattern has only begun to dawn on me in some way. One of these interesting ones was precisely this EPPO regulation, and now the hearings showed that this process was being carried out in relation to the fact that, in those negotiations, Finland should take careful care of (a) national interests and (b) the Finnish Constitution. Well, it now turned out that these special issues of the Finnish Constitution, such as the role of our highest law enforcement officers, had not been taken into account, and in a way this raised me at least at the point of how well we then have this national interest in these negotiations, if we do not even take care of these fundamental issues in the EU, where negotiations are held. Now the regulation is in force, and when it is introduced and implemented here in Finnish legislation, the situation is that we can no longer change it, but we must try to do as much as possible here, but it is not always possible. It follows that, in the end, if there is a conflict, this will be resolved by the European Court of Justice. Of course, you can ask how often a small country wins, I will not take a stand on it, but I will just say that in such a voluntary agreement we will be involved. Actually, I'm excited about this. I've been trying a little bit of a jerk. In 94 the vote was taken on accession to the EU in accordance with the agreement at the time. I myself voted then, and I did vote 'no' then. The fact that the EU was being marketed only as good, but critical, questions were not allowed to be asked at that time either. Tampere, among other things, had a Europe-info point like this, where he was allowed to ask questions about the EU. They let you ask questions, but they didn't ask any bad questions. Then, in 2009, Finland joined the Treaty of Lisbon, in which, in practice, the EU was transferred to the judiciary, the police, the border and immigration, and in that context the European Parliament no longer has representatives of the peoples of the States, but the European Parliament is made up of representatives of the citizens of the Union, which means that we are not Finnish citizens there but European citizens. There is a difference of opinion on this. But the Ombudsman, in his own opinion, used the word ‘intrude’ to this EPPO, and that is what this is all about. I sometimes feel that it is very difficult, at least as a citizen, to find out what the EU is all about. In fact it is really much more than what 94 were voted on, when it was perhaps more like this free trade area and so on. Well, now they're coming to our DA's. Okay, at the moment, the EPPO prosecutors are responsible for crimes against the Union budget, but I do believe that the debate is already under way that this should be taken further. At the same time, there are hate speech projects going on in the EU and so on. Of course, it is appropriate to ask when these prosecutors are going to prosecute other legal matters. Finland is involved in Frontex, which will send us such fundamental rights officers to the border, and when someone at the border pushes people here with a hybrid effect, then the EU agency person says that you should not slip to the border, but everyone gets in. Then, at the same time, we will be pushed into the immigration package, where in practice the EU will determine who we will be. This is very worrying. Now for the last nail in the coffin: this recovery package. That will lead to a debt union that will only reap this federal development. I do think that this is something that every party should actually talk about and say what the EU means. It is not just that you do not have to show your passport at the border or change your currency; it is quite a lot more than that. The question is, of course, how much we will be able to influence there if we cannot even ensure that our own constitution is not violated in these negotiations. But, as has been said in the words of EU Minister Tuppurainen, the thinking of his own people first is damaging, and that is how we are doing things. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u66	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 44/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u67	Mr President! I made an in-depth speech on this issue during the referral debate and I will not go back and repeat what I said then. This was dealt with carefully, as it should be, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and with small regulations we have produced a unanimous report on this. After all, we are dealing with civil crises affecting health care. They are not all such epidemics. They can be major disasters, they can be other serious disturbances that then affect health services and social services as well. And when our country is in its nature, both geographically and otherwise, that from one central government site alone we cannot lead our multiple municipal fields and then it is difficult to gather information directly from the municipalities into one centre to create a picture of the situation, it has been thought that in a certain way we would have a three-way system: There would be a central administration, represented by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, then using the central government agencies involved in the subject. Then these hospital districts would be grouped in such a way that we have five university hospitals around which the hospital districts constitute a special area of responsibility — that would be the middle level. And then we have municipalities. Well, since hospital districts themselves do not take care of other than those in certain areas where there are social welfare districts already, social welfare tasks, then the municipality of the university hospital has been specifically responsible for coordinating the development of the social welfare situation picture. And in this way we have formed this kind of three-step system that forms a situational picture and then standardized way to take care of the preparation. This is, in itself, quite a slight fine-tuning of the current system. I think we could have gone further, but it is good that this model has now been created. This is not just because of this corona situation, but because these ideas were already in the process of social and health care before the outbreak began.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u68	Mr President! In this proposal, hospital districts with a university hospital would be entrusted with the supervision of preparedness planning in social and health care, in accordance with national uniform principles, in their own special responsibility area and in the Social Welfare Act a general provision on preparedness planning and preparedness in social care would be added. The municipalities in the hospital district should draw up a joint social welfare emergency plan under the authority of the social welfare authority of the central hospital. The mission of the medical district maintaining a university hospital would be to create a health care situation picture that would include information on and threats to primary health care and special medical care, as well as the readiness of the health services system to respond to various disorders. This would then provide the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health with information and information on the situation in the national social welfare and health care sector for the Ministry and the government administration. Preparedness planning is being carried out everywhere, and such a change is of course necessary. We need a review of whether our preparedness system is such that we also get the necessary knowledge of the areas in order to reach a conclusion. This bill was supposed to be brought to Parliament last spring. There has already been research into it before this epidemic, but last spring it received so much criticism that it was not imported. There were changes, and now it has been decided here in Parliament and discussed in committee. The committee noted that the proposed amendments did not change the decision-making power or the management relationship with regard to preparedness. This is an important point, namely that the new role to be given to medical districts operating a university hospital is specifically about coordinating preparedness planning and gathering and sharing information on the situation picture. As we all know, university hospitals do not have the best experts in social care, but this is about gathering information about that area, not about its substance. The committee's expert hearings raised the criticism of the timetable for entry into force which was already the previous spring of the crisis. I quite agree that such changes should not be made in the midst of a crisis when we are experiencing such an epidemic, but, as it were, during a period of peace. That is why, in this report too, the committee requires that this proposal be followed by the entry into force of the law. In other words, the date of entry into force must be set as follows:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u69	The 8th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 15 December 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-12-ps-164.u70	The Council of Presidents proposes that the procedure proposed by the Council of Presidents on 11 December 2020 be followed at the sole reading of the draft budget.
