ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of our health safety rules here: keeping distances, keeping safety distance, keeping face masks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u2	A citizens' initiative KAA 7/2020 has been submitted to Parliament on 20 November 2020. The citizens' initiative proposes that Parliament decide that the objective of amending the national identity code legislation, as recorded in the Government Programme, should be abandoned and the current system maintained. In accordance with Article 4 of the Citizens' Initiative Act, the citizens' initiative includes a draft law or a proposal to start drafting the law. I would point out that there is no legal provision for the entries in the Government Programme and therefore the citizens' initiative KAA 7/2020 vp does not comply with the unconditional formal provision for the initiative. In view of the above, I consider that the citizens' initiative is contrary to the Act on Citizens' Initiative and, therefore, pursuant to Article 42(2) of the Constitution, I refuse to take the initiative into consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u4	Mr President! The Government's proposal to supplement the 2021 draft budget will increase the budget by around EUR 1 billion. Of these, EUR 356 million for the future investment programme for 21 and EUR 106 million for the future EU support programme for agriculture, which is, therefore, the EU's money to be allocated through the national budget. Careful management of the interest rate crisis is a central part of the government's economic policy. A significant part of the additional appropriations will therefore again be allocated to expenditure resulting from the corona crisis. These expenditures are one-off and temporary and therefore do not increase the permanent expenditure of the State. The most significant of these is Finavia's capitalisation of EUR 350 million. In addition, the Government's proposal includes a good EUR 56 million contribution to the extension of the increase in the right to unemployment security and unemployment security for entrepreneurs until the end of March 21. In accordance with the Government Programme, the Government will implement a future investment programme during the parliamentary term, which will support the achievement of the objectives of the Government Programme and the long-term sustainability of public finances. These measures are also one-off and will no longer increase central government expenditure in 23. In addition, the measures will be financed mainly through property income, so that they do not increase central government debt either. The future investment programme will not be implemented in its original form in the changed economic context. In the course of the 21 budgetary negotiations, the Government outlined Finland's sustainable growth programme, which will be drawn up to implement the financial objectives of the EU's Recovery and Recovery Support Facility. The Government will combine EU funding and part of the funding of future investment into a structural and cyclically effective entity. Mr President! The net borrowing of central government is estimated at EUR 11.7 billion next year. In order to curb debt, in 21 C.E., the expenditure framework will be restored. However, as the treatment of the corona virus will also require investments next year, in 21 years there will still be some derogations from the spending limits rule in relation to the corona virus situation. For example, the direct health safety costs associated with corona will be fully covered as expenditure outside the spending limits. In addition, an amending budget reserve of EUR 300 million under the Government Programme and a reserve of EUR 500 million for one-off and fiscally mandatory expenditure needs arising from the corona virus situation are in place. Mr President! However, for the national economy and public finances, the key prerequisite for the success of next year's economic policy is the success of preventing the spread of the corona virus. Promising news has been heard about the development of vaccines. Vaccination of the population gives the economy a significant boost to growth. However, this will take time and, in the meantime, adequate measures will have to be taken to keep the situation under control. We have done well so far and there is no reason why we should not continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u5	Mr President! Good Minister of Finance and Minister of Education! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! We looked forward to this additional government proposal in the opposition with particular interest. We expected that the government would have supplemented the main shortcomings of the draft budget, i.e. these missing employment measures with this government's draft budget, but the employment measures still do not appear and do not belong. The Government is committed to securing Finnish well-being and companies' survival beyond the crisis with minimal human and economic damage, and this is a good and important principle. Support for these measures to deal with the corona crisis specifically so that it is human, we would be able to keep the health situation good and, above all, to save the jobs of Finnish people beyond this crisis. In this supplementary, the government will distribute a billion more debt money. This will once again increase the net borrowing of central government by nearly EUR 1 billion next year. In total, the net borrowing of the state is therefore estimated to be around EUR 11.7 billion in debt next year on our children and grandchildren. After all, this year the government has already taken on nearly 20 billion debts. The amount of central government debt is estimated to be EUR 138 billion at the end of next year, i.e. approximately one year later. When the government started, central government debt amounted to EUR 106 billion. So the governments of slopes and Marin have soon increased it by EUR 32 billion. That too is the record, Mr President. And yes, the main problem with your actions is that you know how to distribute money, but you do not seem to have any concern about where this money is coming from. Employment measures are brilliant with their absence, and the debt rally continues. President of the Republic Sauli Niinistö raised his concerns about reckless debt management in Ilkka-Pohjanlainen. President Niinistö stated in an interview with Ilkka-Pohjolainen that the repayment of loans is seen as less binding in current thinking. According to the President, the economic doctrine currently spreads that the central banks can create huge amounts of money, and repayment of this money is not considered a problem or necessarily even necessary. The President of the Republic pointed out that money created from nothing always means a loan somewhere else. He was concerned about the idea that money could be printed endlessly without an economic equivalent. This supplementary proposal includes future investment. I personally wonder that, for example, concerns about vocational education and training issues are pushed forward by the fact that there is only a small amount of investment: hiring teachers, instructors, teaching staff and hourly teachers, but not permanently, even though the needs are permanent, but temporary. The question is whether there is only a short-term need when temporary posts are created only for the duration of this parliamentary term. This supplementary proposal also proposes EUR 25 million for walking and cycling, EUR 25,5 million for nature conservation, but it was not found to keep the boat purchase of the Archipelago Clean and almost the EUR 500000 that they wanted and had already been promised. Could not, Mr Government, have earmarked this money for the Keeping Archipelago Clean? They are doing an extremely valuable job, and when we have been concerned about it today, there is still some Christmas gift money to be distributed to the MPs of the government parties, so I would appeal to you to show that money, even from there, so that this important vessel can be made to keep our coastal area, but also the Saimaa area, clean. It is also proposed to extend the temporary derogation from unemployment protection legislation to structural changes, and I also welcome the extension of the extension of the right to unemployment benefit and the protection component of unemployment protection for entrepreneurs. I would also like to thank you, Mr President, for the proposal to increase and extend the Kela compensation for covid-19 tests in private health care. What is also positive is that the concerns raised by the Assembly about regional airport connections are now being taken seriously. We voted on them in this Chamber earlier. Then there was no understanding of the difficult situation of these provincial airports by the government parties, [ Intermediate calls from the Centre Group] I also welcome the fact that a little extra money is being proposed to the courts and to the Legal Aid Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office for the removal of congestion in court cases. These are important, as is the allocation to the Criminal Sanctions Agency. Mr President! Just a few more remarks. I would also like to express my appreciation for the fact that, where there is cause for commendation, it must be given, for example, that an appropriation is proposed for the implementation of a positive credit register. It is an important action from the perspective of our Finnish people. Then these actions, such as those taken by the police and the Border Guard, now all these increases in appropriations go to the walls. We would, above all, need more men, more women working for the police and the Border Guard, and I would like the government to take this promise seriously, that the number of policemen will be raised to where the government parties also spoke before the elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u6	Thank you. Remember the mask.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u7	Mr President! First of all, I must say to Mr Heinos that I wonder whether we read the same paper, the same presentation, that much different was your point of view — although I do appreciate the fact that there was some praise and thanks for the presentation. But to the point, Mr President. A lot of schoolchildren and students are doing well. At the same time, however, there is a message that not everyone can keep up. There are shortcomings in student writing skills, as well as in literacy. For many young people, drugs are a big problem. In everyday life, many teachers struggle with how to get students to come to school. Among other things, this problem is addressed in the government proposal. An increase of EUR 80 million is proposed for the recruitment of teachers, instructors and support staff in vocational education and training, as well as an increase in the number of hours taught by teachers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u12	Thank you. — There seems to be a need for some sort of debut. Here you go. Those who want to participate in the debut will press the V button from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u13	Mr President! I think that this speech was very good. It pointed out that this economic policy line, which the government has, has been correct, timely and has achieved good results on a European scale, and it was also stressed that it is time for recovery. We are now investing in jobs, education, services for children and the elderly, and a good human line here is always present — health ahead, of course. President! That is what I would like to return to: at least I was very surprised at what Mr Heinonen said about the assembly, namely, once again, I saw a rather strange structure in it. First, the debt is horrified, then a lot of spending is listed, which should be increased. We also remember that last Christmas the Coalition Party presented a billion extra expenses, and then we know that the Coalition Party has presented its tax claims, a billion tax cuts, 300 million of which go to the most well-off.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u14	Mr President! Representative Viitanen is good at that misunderstanding. Of course we are concerned at the meeting that our country is facing severe debt, but above all we are concerned that there are no employment measures. In your time, Mr Social Democrats, your actions on these employment issues have gone backwards. You will not be able to take measures to strengthen the financial base for the future, and that is the concern. You will see a responsible alternative, Mr Viitanen and the left-wing government. Next Tuesday, the Coalition Party will present an alternative budget that takes less debt, creates work and trust for Finns in the future and make these teaching places for vocational education — permanently. Not that we give temporary teachers for two or three years, but that we want them to be permanent,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u15	Mr President! Let us save an alternative budget debate for next week, but it seems that when the coalition is in the government, there will be no money and billions of dollars in training, but as soon as the coalition moves into the opposition, there will suddenly be money to be found, and at the same time there will be concern about debt and at the same time there will be a willingness to direct tax cuts of EUR 1 billion, most of which will be directed to the most well-off Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u18	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to that speech by Mrs Heinonen, in which she says, at the mouth of many of us in the Assembly, that employment measures are missing from this amending budget. I myself think that I no longer even expected employment measures there, because they have not been there in recent times, so I have already lost hope that they will even be presented on this side of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u21	Mr President! On this point, I would say to Mr Heinos that employment measures are more than just cuts in social security. This is how I see it. What is the essence of Finland’s survival and growth? In my view, demographic policy and knowledge, then smooth transport, productivity and the economy. It is true that there is a great deal of investment in this amending budget. Most of them come in need and critical need. There are investments that have not been made in the past and which are critical for Finland’s competitiveness. For example, next year there will be six times as much money in the state budget for private houses as in the power years of the coalition if I raise one. I am particularly proud of the resources for education, such as the resources reserved for the programme to change child and family services, and the increased resources provided by teachers and guidance staff in vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u22	Mr President! We are going through the Finnish budget, but of course there is concern when you think that 50 million is being put here to adapt to climate change in developing countries. Well, that's a pretty big money to put into that kind of purpose. It seems that even this money does not have a proper impact assessment, that what this money actually gets. In a way, we should now support Finland's competitiveness, Finland's success. Somehow it seems that before the time there was such a saying that there was a country with strawberry, other land with blueberry, but the government has turned this on its head: its own land with blueberry, other land with strawberry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u23	Mr President! It is great that Mr Heinonen also found a lot of praise in his speech at the beginning, and one of the things that he has paid a great deal of attention to is the positive credit register, which is now actually being set aside to take forward its preparation. This is a very important issue because at the same time many other reforms will be carried forward to facilitate the position of over-indebtedness. In the coming spring, I hope that we will have a legal reform of this Chamber, for example, on the retention of default marking, but it is already worth distinguishing this from the preparation of a positive credit register. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u24	Mr President! This increase in next year's budget continues the government's policy, in which, unfortunately, indebtedness is the element in preparing for the future. Unfortunately, this amending budget did not contain these employment measures, to which colleagues have already referred. As the first opposition party, the Christian Democrats will be publishing their own alternative budget tomorrow, with our own employment package as an important part of it. But we will then have a debate on these later here in Parliament. I would have liked to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, when, in your presentation, you mentioned the financing of the second stage of future investment, that this is not going to happen as it stands, but is now waiting for the recovery package and the combination of how this will be done in practice — that is to say, how it will now be coordinated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u25	Irade the Talman! It is clear that next year's budget will be heavily in deficit, but it is equally clear what Mr Lindtman pointed out that Finland has done extremely well in European comparisons. And it, in turn, has directly saved jobs, created employment in relation to a worse scenario. There's gonna be a big deficit this year, 20 billion. That is an important sum, but we also know that, in view of the proposals made in this Chamber from the point of view of the opposition, including those expenditure increases,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u28	Mr President! This fourth amending budget is huge, almost EUR 1 billion, and this should be an amending budget — an addition to the normal budget of something small. It's not. This amending budget, as has been pointed out here, lacks the measures that will generate more revenue for the state and employment measures that will keep this society alive and generate more income and businesses here. Education and training have been raised here — these temporary money that is being given there. Do not talk about having teachers: they are temporary. Of course, they're teachers, but they're temporary teachers. Apparently, their employment will end when this funding ends. It is not right for these teachers and the teaching sector to give such temporary carrots,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u34	Mr President! If the present opposition parties were in the government — or vice versa — I suspect that these amending budgets would be about the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u37	Mr President! When you listened to Mr Heinonen and Mr Kivisaari, there was a very significant ideological difference. Mr Kivisaari said very well that here we look to the future and also invest in revitalising in this difficult situation — a very good thing. And these investments in the future, which have also been made in this debate, are precisely a look to the future. They're needed. They will also help to improve employment. Investments in children and young people and education — I think they are very important. I am surprised that they are being criticised on the part of the opposition, particularly on the part of the assembly. Similarly, investments to support airport connections at regional airports, private roads
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u39	Mr President! Working life is changing, and education is the way to deal with it. An increase of EUR 40 million is therefore proposed in order to strengthen continuous learning, and this is certainly the best employment measure. More funding is also proposed for the implementation of the disability programme for the part-time disabled, and this is also clearly an employment measure. We have many problems of well-being at work and sick leave due to exhaustion and also premature retirement. We cannot afford this as a society, and therefore the additional funding proposed for the programme for the development of working life and well-being at work is very necessary, and this is also served by the additional funding proposed for the Workable Rehabilitation in Social and Health Care project, i.e. EUR 4 million. All of these will also increase employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u40	Mr President! This supplementary budget will boost the government's investments in the future by more than EUR 350 million. They are particularly important in the recovery of the interest rate and as part of the recovery package and, as has been said here, they also have employment effects. Developing knowledge and caring for people is particularly important at a time when the world is changing rapidly and the need for retraining is great. That is why we support education at different levels of education and, among other things, continuous learning with EUR 40 million. And yes, with this supplementary budget, Finland also bears global responsibility. EUR 50 million will be allocated to development cooperation. This money will contribute to the realisation of human rights, for example by improving the rights of girls and women and improving adaptation to climate change in developing countries, and this is also important when we face challenges because the whole is essential. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u41	I will give Mr Hoskonen a reply, and then Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u42	Mr President! The debate on this budget complement has taken on a rather strange dimension. The reality is, however, that we in this house must ensure that the Finnish ship is constantly moving forward under exceptionally difficult conditions. At the moment, as we know, we are getting the message from the medical and scientific side that these vaccine campaigns are progressing and that the first ones are already on the way to sale — they will soon be authorised, apparently this year’s side. Once we reach that point — it is quite certain that we will get there, that vaccination campaigns in the world will start and be able to control this disease — then we must have a functioning machinery in this country. If we drive Finland down at this intermediate stage, it is even impossible to get it started later. We've got to do it now. It is true that painful decisions are being taken, but we must now act in such a way that we look forward in a little longer term to the end of the corona period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u43	Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u44	Mr President! Of course, these future investments were supposed to be in the actual budget proposal for next year at the beginning of autumn, but when we saw in the summer that there was a need for space for a framework for next year, both to support the difficult situation in the municipalities and to support Veikkaus' incomes, the government decided that, although all future investments were important and necessary for development, an important amount was taken from them, which could be allocated to the municipalities and Veikkaus organisations. The remaining package for the future had to be re-prepared, which is why it will only come in this supplementary proposal at the end of the year. A number of questions asked about employment measures. At no time was the government prepared to introduce employment measures in this supplementary proposal. Most of the employment measures expected may be linked to legislation. And yes, if decisions are taken in connection with the budget debate, they must also be coordinated with the timetables of the legislation. Therefore, if the opposition had the idea that employment measures would now be included in this supplementary proposal, then it was a false expectation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u47	Secretary Andersson, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u48	Mr President! Many speakers have raised the issue of investment in education and skills, which is indeed a significant part of the future investment that has now been made in this supplementary proposal. With regard to the timeliness and permanence of the government’s training efforts, it can be concluded that both — and — are being done. There is also a need for them because our education system has quite a financial deficit at a large number of levels of education due to the austerity decisions taken in connection with the previous parliamentary term. The additional permanent allowance will include extending compulsory education, strengthening student and student care, making an index increase in full throughout the parliamentary term, strengthening basic funding for higher education institutions, strengthening basic funding for upper secondary schools and all the permanent investments made in early childhood education. In addition to this, training will also be developed and strengthened through future investment in the additional remuneration of teachers and instructors on the professional side or the increase in the number of hours already on the payroll, i.e. this does not require the recruitment of new staff. I would also like to stress that in a country such as Finland, knowledge and education are, to a large extent, employment policies. 40 million of these investments will be allocated directly to continuous learning. The target group is, in particular, older, low-skilled adults of working age, which is precisely the target group we should be able to reach as part of our employment policy and where this raising of skills is extremely important in order to improve their employment opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u49	Thank you. — Let us now move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u50	Mr President! Indeed, as I have already said in that debate, this government proposal continues this familiar line, i.e. more debt as a nation. Of course, I understand that, in this Chamber, we certainly have a common view that temporary indebtedness is understandable because of this corona crisis, but the government has no prospect of the stage at which indebtedness is to be broken down, and perhaps the most serious point is that we have not been presented with these employment measures other than what was said in that budget debate, that there was then, by the end of 2030, a number of modest employment measures were brought up on a list. In that sense, the concern of the opposition in this Chamber is shared by the fact that in future we will be able to move forward with this situation so that future generations do not have a terrible debt burden on their necks. Here in the supplementary list for next year's budget there are things that are quite worthy of you, such as changes in the corona virus situation. I don't think anyone here has anything against them. We understand the capitalisation of Finavia, we understand the support for regional flights and, in particular, the increase in Kela compensations from covid tests in private health care. These are all important and necessary, but in the context of such an increase it really does surprise me whether it has now been absolutely necessary to make the kind of additions that we usually see there, mainly on the side of the actual budget. So here are, for example, these funding for nature reserves or EUR 25 million in promotion of walking and cycling. Are these precisely the ones that are now being driven forward by an increase in the budget? In this sense, it inevitably comes to mind that there are a few types of candy here, on the one hand, for you—for me, that the wishes of one government party have been fulfilled and that the wishes of another government party have been fulfilled with this second addition. Unfortunately, there is no way out of this idea. Well, I listened to the Minister of Finance's explanation of how this recovery fund is now to be taken into account in connection with the financing of the second phase of future investment. There are, of course, great expectations in those regions as to how these things should be promoted through both the bioeconomy and digitalisation, and I have wondered what the timetable is to be if we are to have this report before the House.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u51	Mr President! We are dealing here with the fourth amending budget, which is indeed almost a billion in size. There are items that are understandable in relation to the costs of the interest rate, but there are also items that are not so-called urgent or debt-funded items. That is why it is a little confusing to bring in items in the draft amending budget which are seen to be necessary and, at the same time, not to provide funding for those items which would be extremely urgent to deal with. We are talking about investment in the future, and I would like to say a few words about the future here. We have significant lines of psychiatry for children and adolescents. It is very difficult to access treatment, mental health services, including adult mental health services. The interest situation has made the situation even more difficult, and many people are currently in crisis. Companies go down, the corona causes mental health problems, but the government still does not see the need to invest in mental health services. This, if anything, would have been the point where the government could have corrected the mistake it made because it did not provide enough money for mental health services. The implementation of the therapeutic guarantee would require EUR 35 million — EUR 35 million, compared with a loan of almost EUR 1 billion. Thirty-five million, but it wasn't enough for our mental patients, children and young people. There is no point in talking about future investments if we are not prepared to invest in people's well-being and to provide the conditions for them to study and train. Second point: treatment queues. We have people in an illegal situation on the waiting lists. Future investment would be to put these treatment lines in order now and get people into care. There are important things waiting to happen, people are dying in line at the moment. But even in this amending budget, the government did not see the need to provide additional funding for human services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u54	Mr President! For this therapeutic guarantee debate, I would like to say again at the outset, as a reminder, as a psychotherapy education itself, and as a mental health worker, that these problems have not been created for people during this reign. People’s nausea has accumulated over many years. This is a long time ago a government that talks about mental health, which talks about the need to invest in the well-being of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u59	Mr President! Just a week ago, in this Chamber, we were discussing the supplement to this year's seventh amending budget, and now we already have in our hands the supplement to next year's budget. In this parliamentary term, we will certainly see a large number of additions and amendments. A week ago, I was talking about how the big, important spending stones in the budget jar are filled with spending gravel and spending sand, secondary things. This supplement to the draft budget for next year is a gruesome example of a sum of more than EUR 1 billion, with a couple of stones and the rest of gravel and sand — an endless list of ten-ton items to a few ten million. It has been noted in the government parties and industries that the loan spike is open in a way that will never happen again, at least hopefully not. More money is available almost anywhere, because of the interest rate, unemployment or information security, for example. Finland is in panic control. Large structures, rigid structures or poor productivity are characterised by the fact that maintaining, not to mention increasing, the capacity to deliver in a crisis or at a turning point requires a disproportionate amount of additional resources. The agile parts of the public administration, which are also present, are pulsating, and the rigids are responding to the additional efficiency requirements by means of additional money requirements. Does these additional resources provide what is needed when it is needed? That is something that we do not have time to react to in this Chamber, nor will we be able to react later, because we will continue to reflect on the endless number of additional needs. Mr President! Of course, much of the additional money for this year and next year will go to the necessary additional expenditure directly or indirectly caused by the interest rate. But there is also a considerable amount going on in creating, maintaining and increasing expenditure structures that will be lost in the years to come because of work and pain. We have an unprecedented and necessary diet ahead of us. For example, I would like to highlight this supplement but also, more generally, a number of worrying developments in budgetary developments: Firstly, the productivity development of the public administration — where it exists — seems to fall to wages and not to fall in total expenditure. The number of hard-paid workers and wages are rising, while even the low-paid in the public sector are left with the bone. The pay gap between men and women is a shame. Secondly, there is something seriously wrong with the IT expenditure of the public administration in general and the need for additional funding in this exceptional period. Every time even a little is touched on the IT systems of public administration, millions of people are just flashing. Anyone who can figure out a million dollars should be terrified of it-projects. It's raining and it's raining for some people. It is a critical factor in the success of state service production, but it cannot be managed and developed in this way. Mr President! The sharing of loose money on the wings of important expenditure items will be bitterly avenged in the years to come. The responsible government, which is in Finland’s best interests — when hopefully this will be achieved as soon as possible — will have an unnecessarily hard job to do because of the money being sown now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u60	There is still time for one more speech and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u61	Mr President, ärade talman! Vi har ett kompletterat budgetförslag ai med massor med framtidsinvesteringar och en hel del discussion har förts om bradden i det. Det handlar om många olika delar.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u62	Mr President! It may have been a good thing if we could have defined these future investments as one list and said that they are financed as property income and are one-off. Then there would have been no mention of the fact that the debt is now creating permanent expenses, which will then have to be cut off in due course. They are one-off expenditure on property income. They are now in this supplementary motion for the reason I described in my previous speech. As Mr Lindén said at the interlocutory call, we are investing in waiting lists and in the care guarantee in the actual budget proposal, and we are also prepared to see that the development of the care guarantee in the national growth programme in the recovery instrument will play a key role. For the second time, Mr Essayah asked about this relationship between the recovery package and the wishes of the provinces. Now the government is giving a report on the recovery instrument, its use, to Parliament. It will include targets, criteria for the system by which the recovery tool will be used in Finland. It will not yet contain any proposals on what money will be spent on. That money doesn't exist yet. The ratification process is only just beginning in different countries. However, it has been estimated in the government that even though we do not know when the instrument will come into use, so that it is optimal for the effectiveness and timing of recovery, it is good to prepare for it properly, and in Finland Parliament will have the opportunity to influence the big basic way in which that money will be used. It will not be divided by region, but decisions are national for different purposes. On the basis of our legislation, there will then be different bodies that will take final financing decisions for different purposes after they have come through the budgetary process. It will not be made into one big package, which will be decided once and for all in Parliament, but the use of the recovery tool will be timed for the period of use, and money will gradually be put into circulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u63	Thank you. — The proceedings and the debate shall be suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u64	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u65	Mr President! This proposal, which complements the draft budget, is a red thread for coping with the corona crisis and for continuing the sustainable development measures and thus for the future after the interest rate. Now there is a need for both in society. So we are talking about a supplementary budget proposal, and it seemed to have been forgotten in many previous speeches, so we are not talking about the actual budget, we are talking about the supplement. Mr President! Helping children and young people through the corona epidemic with minimal damage is an important future action. Even mistakes were made in the spring that led to some children falling off the normal learning path and increased the risk of exclusion. Fortunately, money has now been directed to the municipalities to correct the situation in the past, and this proposal proposes EUR 8 million for the quality and equality programme in basic education and EUR 2 million for the morning and afternoon hours. Families with children will also be assisted by an increase of EUR 16 million proposed for the programme to change child and family services. The programme for the change of child and family services develops family centres, early support in everyday life, low-threshold substance abuse and mental health services for children and young people, and child protection is what is needed now. During the spring, there was also an increase in school attendance at different levels, and not all children and young people are still being reached. That is why it is important that EUR 4.5 million be proposed for the expansion of youth work in search of young people. We are now also filling the very damaging cuts made by the previous government in the resources for vocational education and training. An additional EUR 80 million is proposed for the recruitment of teachers, instructors and support staff in vocational education and training, as well as for the increase in the number of hours teachers. An additional EUR 5 million is proposed for the quality and accessibility programme for upper secondary school education. President! Working life is changing due to the corona and also without it, and the change can be achieved through education. Therefore, the EUR 40 million proposed to strengthen continuous learning is necessary and is an important employment measure. There will also be additional funding for the implementation of the disability programme for those who are able to work. Despite the challenges of employment, we also have a lot of problems with well-being at work and sick leave and premature retirement due to fatigue. This is something that we cannot afford as a society, and that is why the additional funding proposed for the programme for the development of working life and well-being at work is very necessary. An additional EUR 4 million is proposed for the Workable Rehabilitation in Social and Health Care project. President! Despite the epidemic of interest rates, we must also take care of the progress of sustainable development. An additional EUR 40 million is proposed to support sustainable growth and vitality in the regions, targeting the preparation of sudden structural changes, regional innovation and experimentation, regional development funding and financing of the KEINO Knowledge Centre and contractual cooperation. I have asked here in this Chamber a few times this autumn about the continuation of the funding of the KEINO Centre of Excellence and I am pleased that it has been taken into account in this proposal. The funding of the KEINO Expertise Centre was cut off, and without this appropriation the continuation of this important work would have been threatened. The KEINO Expertise Centre develops the expertise of contracting entities operating in different areas and provides advice on sustainable and innovative procurement. Among other things, the Audit Committee has highlighted the willingness of municipalities to improve their procurement skills in order to make procurements that support sustainable development, and the KEINO Centre has been a great help to municipalities and other contracting entities in this work. It is now possible to continue this important work. President! Further investment in development cooperation is also needed for the future. Coronavirus pandemic has caused a major economic and social crisis in developing countries. It is estimated that as a result of the crisis, the population of those living in extreme poverty will grow by up to 150 million people. The achievement of sustainable development is escalating further and the stability of societies is being put at risk, and this is also a global security threat. International community support is needed more than ever to get the developing countries through the worst. Development cooperation can also help to reduce the forced exodus of circumstances, and that is an important objective for us. An additional EUR 50 million will be proposed for development cooperation and the appropriation will be allocated, inter alia, to the adaptation of developing countries to climate change. A particularly impressive activity in development cooperation is the training of girls. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u66	Mr President! In the Government Programme, the promotion of many important issues has been included in one-off investments in the future, i.e. in the so-called second basket. In this context of the interest rate crisis, part of future investment can be promoted through the recovery package. It fits in with the nature of future investment. This supplementary budget will boost the future investments that have not been agreed on in the recovery package by EUR 350 million. These are investments in people's well-being, skills development and employment as well as climate action and nature conservation. Developing knowledge and caring for people is especially important now that the world is changing rapidly. Korona has brought uncertainty to people's lives, and the need for retraining is great. That is why, among other things, we support continuous learning with EUR 40 million. With this proposal, the Board of Directors will also continue to mitigate the adverse effects of the interest rate. Especially in Uusimaa and the capital region, the interest rate situation has now become very serious. This means that state aid will continue to be necessary for the people and sectors particularly hit by corona restrictions. In times of uncertainty, it is important to support people's livelihoods and lower the thresholds for taking up work. We will therefore continue with EUR 56 million in important changes in unemployment benefit, which have taken steps towards basic income: For lay-offs, you can study with unemployment benefit for the whole of next year. The increase in the protection component of labour market support will continue so that a beneficiary of labour market support can earn EUR 500 per month without losing the aid. The right of entrepreneurs to labour market support will also be extended until the end of next year. This will create security and make it worthwhile to accept work and support retraining during this period of uncertainty. Mr President! This supplementary proposal also includes approximately EUR 20 million for nature conservation and about EUR 25 million for walking and cycling. Better bike paths promote sustainable mobility. Korona has increased the popularity of cycling. With safe and smooth cycle paths, we ensure that this health-promoting trend continues. It is important that money is also channelled to municipalities that build a lot of cycle paths and have great potential for cycling promotion. In this way, we will ensure that cycling projects do not disappear from the investment lists of municipalities and cities that are struggling with economic challenges. There is a demand for natural protection funds when we strengthen biodiversity and improve hiking structures. Last week, natural friends were delighted to know that we are about to receive two new national parks, Salla and Evo National Parks, under the leadership of Minister of the Environment Krista Mikkonen. As a New Zealander, I also hope to see investments in Porkkala that strengthen nature conservation, nature hiking and tourism, which was still waiting for the national park status. Mr President! The government is concerned about the weakest in the midst of the crisis. We allocate an additional EUR 750000 to prevent financial problems for tenants. The interest crisis has hit many low incomes, and it is important that no one loses their home because of the interest rate. The apartment is human rights. Violence against women has increased and child protection problems remain hidden due to isolation and avoidance of social contacts. That is why it is important that the helpline for violence against women and violence in close relationships, Nollaline, be reimbursed by EUR 75,000 of interest. EUR 570000 is proposed to secure the functioning of Victim Support Finland and EUR 730000 for the development of the premises of child protection units. All extremely important additions. And, President, with this supplementary budget, Finland also bears global responsibility. 50 million will be allocated to development cooperation, and with this money we will contribute to the realisation of human rights, for example by improving the rights of girls and women and adapting to climate change in developing countries. Extreme poverty is increasing for the first time in over 20 years, threatening up to 150 million people around the world. Finland is committed to improving the lives of people living in the least developed countries and those most vulnerable. This responsibility is also borne by the government during difficult times. Finally, I am pleased to say that Lappeenranta has been chosen as the greenest city in Europe, and we support this important achievement with just over EUR 200,000. The work of the city and partners of Lappeenranta shows the potential of cities as a driver of sustainable development and climate work. With the smallest carrots in the state, we are making major changes and we are also growing the climate signature of Finland in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u67	Mr President! The budget supplement 2021 in that day in the opposition was somewhat amazement, and there was much criticism of the government even of its irresponsibility. The criticism does surprise us when we know how well we have managed to manage the crisis in relative terms, both in terms of economy and health, with many comparisons. The budget complement will continue to contribute to overcoming the crisis and mobilise investment in the second phase of the future, help companies cope with the effects of the interest rate and support the daily lives of municipalities, Finns and also the Government’s growth targets through future investments over the crisis period. The total impact of the supplement on central government finances is less than one billion. In this supplement, I am particularly pleased that it is part of the second phase of the government's future investment and its implementation. It is important to continue, despite the corona, the objectives of the Government Programme in terms of early childhood education, education and the strengthening of skills. The additional effort — EUR 40 million to strengthen continuous learning, which will strengthen the fast-acting training of working-age people — fits perfectly in at this time of crisis. The continuation of the quality programme for basic education and the additional funding for afternoon activities are important additional investments in early childhood education. The accessibility of upper secondary school education and the continued funding of the quality programme and the additional EUR 80 million of vocational education and training for the additional remuneration of teachers, instructors and teachers is an important part of correcting the reform of vocational education and training in the previous government. Involved youth work and Support for the Mobility School project is also included in the proposal. The investments of this government in education and strengthening skills in this cyclical situation are long-term precision drugs for the construction of future growth. In particular, I am warmed up by the supplement to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which now tries to return air traffic in Eastern and Northern Finland gradually, despite the corona, to the regional airports. The EUR 11.5 million in the amending budget now allows for the tendering of flights from the beginning of April to the end of 21 and the option for the following year for five regional airports. The continuation of air traffic in Joensuu, Kemi, Kokkola, Kajaani and Jyväskylä is a prerequisite for the accessibility of the regions, the economy and the operating conditions of industry and tourism. On the transport side, also vt 5, Hurus, and the additional authorisation of the Luumäki-Imatra rail link of 30 million are an important part of speeding up and restoring the Karjala track. Mr President! The budget complement is well-structured and well-founded and supports the objectives of the 2021 budget and its construction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u68	Mr President! The Government has submitted its supplementary draft budget for next year's budget. The proposal will continue to make important investments by the current government in areas such as nature conservation, education and climate work in developing countries. In this respect, it is the implementation of future investments agreed in the Government Programme. The second part of the proposal is to facilitate the situation caused by the interest rate. This includes, for example, the capitalisation of Finavia, who has been in trouble for 350 million. When considering the future of Finavia, we need to see where the potential could be to move to fast train traffic, especially about 3 hours from Helsinki. It is also necessary to monitor how Finland does not lose international connections to other parts of Europe in the recovery of air traffic, even if, for climate reasons, growth is not sought. The visionary work on sustainable transport still needs to be continued. The supplementary draft budget will also help entrepreneurs and the unemployed to cope with the corona virus. It is proposed to extend temporary derogations from unemployment security legislation in some respects until the end of March 2021. A total of EUR 56.4 million is proposed to extend the increase in the right to unemployment benefit and the protection component of unemployment security for entrepreneurs. It is important that subsidies are targeted at those entrepreneurs who have lost their livelihood. In this form of support, targeting is not a challenge. With regard to interest subsidies for other companies, it is still necessary to monitor how they can prevent and support those who have lost unemployment as a result of the interest rate. 150 million will be allocated to the recruitment of teachers and instructors in vocational education and training. The additional resource will increase the amount of local education in order to ensure high-quality learning. A quality programme will be launched to improve the quality of upper secondary school education and 15 million will be allocated to this purpose. I am surprised at the fact that, under the leadership of the Minister, the cutbacks that have been made in this debate and in the previous debate have had the nerve to be the greatest critic in terms of financial continuity. However, it is good to say here that there is an understanding across party boundaries that this funding for vocational and secondary education should continue to be maintained. EUR 40 million will be invested in continuous learning. Funding will be targeted in particular at developing the skills of the working-age population, strengthening skills with low basic skills and facilitating the employment of older people and supporting immigrants in employment. These are precisely the employment measures that have long been called for. The targeting of interest rate measures on young people, both in schools and hobbies, challenges young people’s optimism and belief in the future. It is very important that youth work in this area should receive more resources to support young people in need. Finally, I would like to raise a number of nature conservation-related sites. A total of EUR 19.5 million is devoted to the protection of biodiversity. One way to combat biodiversity loss is to renovate valuable habitats such as bogs, traditional biotopes, groves and bird wetlands. The Helmi programme, through which the Ministry of the Environment protects our precious nature, will receive EUR 7 million in accordance with the supplementary draft budget. This appropriation will also help to accelerate the implementation of challenging rehabilitation projects. At the same time, Metsähallitus receives an increase of EUR 6 million. Money is directed to the sustainability of nature conservation areas as well as to the development of recreational structures and practices. During the Korona period, these recreational areas and nature reserves have been heavily used, and it is good that this expensive, important infrastructure is being taken care of. An additional EUR 6.5 million will be allocated to the acquisition of natural protection areas for next year. The Ely Centres have recruited workforces for the establishment of protected areas, and the growing interest of landowners has increased the forests offered for conservation and the number of protected areas to be set up. I would also like to thank the Government for its global responsibility and the implementation of the Government Programme in terms of development cooperation funding. Finally, a number of subjects on the government's human rights agenda: For example, the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman receives 200000 for European expulsion control. The operations of Victim Support Finland are secured, and the resources of Victim Support Finland are EUR 570000. It is good that human rights-based choices can also be made in the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u69	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Vi behandlar alltså regeringens proposition till riksdage om complexing av budgetpropositionen för nänsta år. Här finns det främst framtidsinvesteringar och också en del coronautgifter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u70	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u71	Mr President! The proposal proposes to extend until the end of the year the validity of the Act on temporary derogations from the Unemployment Protection Act in force as a result of the covid-19 epidemic until the end of March 2021. The aim is to continue to ensure the livelihood of employees in situations where employment ends temporarily or completely, and to support the reception of work and the regional mobility of labour. The proposal proposes to extend the temporary changes aimed at simplifying the provisions on unemployment benefit in certain circumstances, thereby reducing the workload required for examining the application for benefits. The proposals for streamlining the provisions concern certain situations of reconciliation of unemployment benefit and the payment of unemployment benefit as an advance without a decision. In addition, the proposal proposes to extend temporarily following an increase in the protection component of EUR 500 for the settlement of unemployment benefit, i.e. the proportion of earnings not taken into account in the payment of the adjusted unemployment benefit. It is also proposed to extend the temporary derogation from the condition for full-time commuting. The changes will increase unemployment security expenditure by an estimated EUR 16.5 million. This is mainly due to the continuation of the temporary increase in the unemployment benefit component. For the rest, changes are estimated to have minor economic effects. Mr President! During the Covid-19 epidemic, changes to the legislation on unemployment protection have been made to safeguard the position of unemployed job seekers and to encourage them to take up work. As a result of the interest-rate crisis, the number of people benefiting from unemployment benefits remains exceptionally high. That is why the extension of the temporary derogations now being presented is justified. The Act is intended to enter into force as soon as possible and to be provisionally in force until 31 March 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u72	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Pekonen, for the introduction. It is right that the government has reacted to the situation, as Parliament has already required in the past. Now this was the government's own reflection. This first stage of Parliament's will was already the subject of the necessary changes, which were in fact required precisely for unemployed job seekers and laid-off workers who suffered from this corona situation. We have to give the government a point about this, that we are being held responsible in this situation, where we are now. Will this go far enough, remain a question, but I do not think that any of us can predict it. But I believe that if this corona situation in the form of a vaccine does not begin to become right now in the spring, then we will need this at a time when we, as far as the export industry is concerned, are in a situation where the world economy is stalling, when we have the number of layoffs being repeated and increased considerably. Then there must still be ink in the printing presses, so to speak, so that the money can be printed, because we cannot leave the unemployed in that situation. And we must also be able to prepare for the unfortunate fact that we are able to live in the export industry, and it is a bigger nut. Let us hope for vaccines and thank the government now, in this situation, for these measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u73	Mr President! Just like a representative. Myllykoski described above, I too have great concern that the fact that this legislation will be in force until the end of March next year will not necessarily be enough, but perhaps we will have to continue with this legislation. Let us hope that things change quickly and that we do not see a major wave of redundancies. At the moment, however, we are still living in a time when quite a lot depends on these layoffs, and we do not quite know the final situation and its gloom. In this proposal, there are some very important issues relating to the payment of unemployment benefits, one might say, both incentives and red tape traps have been tried to reduce. For example, this mobility allowance, and also the increase in the protective component, are something that I think will be useful even after the corona epidemic. I myself sit in the Committee on Social Security, where we have just gone through these incentives traps, the bureaucratic traps and wondered what they really mean and how big are, for example, these problems with the safety component that people are experiencing as a barrier to employment. If I have heard correctly, the minister's presentation must have said that payment would be possible in the case of unemployment benefit without the actual decision still exists. This is also an important reform which I would like to consider after the end of these conditions, because one of these things, which is also called the bureaucracy trap, is this time lag, which happens in the case of people who fear, for example, in a certain situation, that they will be completely excluded from any kind of funding. It does not come from that side of unemployment benefit, it does not come from the social security side — once and for all these time delays between decisions and payments may be so great. In that sense, given the normal situation, it may be an obstacle to accepting a small fixed-term job, for example, because the person wonders how many days these different applications will take to process and calculates that there is a risk that you will be left behind and for so long without money coming from any direction, and yet even pay has its own statutory rhythm. In that sense, I think that this is important if we have been able to find a solution to this situation. Mr President! This is certainly one of the legislative proposals which have now been put on the road because of the interest rate, and yet there are things within these, which should always be considered in the future. In this Chamber, for example, we have generally commended this access to unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs, which I hope could then be considered in the future through ordinary legislation —
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u74	Mr President! This was the expected follow-up, which means the corona is nowhere near over. This, by simplifying and speeding up access to income security, is very important for low-income workers and their families, so that their livelihoods continue, even if lay-offs or unemployment now strikes. I don't want any interruptions. The interest is still on. I think this bill will continue in the spring too. It's not enough yet. Then we should consider, as Mrs Essayah said, whether it should be a little more permanent than this and not just now during the interest period, once again encouraging those who have been unemployed to take on some part-time jobs, to hold on to some part-time jobs, to be excluded from working life, to receive additional income from it, and there is no immediate fear of losing subsidies when you take a day or two jobs. It is, of course, also in the interests of entrepreneurs to get employees into certain jobs, which are just temporary jobs, even such people in them. Everyone knows that people have to look for work longer and longer in their homes. These commuting will often burden the economy when it comes to going far and it will also take some time off, so it is good that this mobility allowance is now being continued in this way. Then I would like to talk about this too, which has been linked to this corona — it was a government proposal in spring 38, and then in the summer it was extended by a government proposal 94 — and that this unemployment allowance paid on the basis of lay-off and unemployment would not take up the maximum contribution period for unemployment allowance if the lay-off had started on or after 16 March. This was a good thing that they didn't go, once this corona goes on, but it got a lot of feedback that if you've been laid off at the beginning of March, you're on the same line with the layoffs since 16 March, because you can't find a job now during the corona period, but they're going through these days - they've been in a very different position. So the next time such things are done, a little consideration would be given to those who have preferred to be left behind, yet this interest rate will affect those who have also become unemployed at the turn of last year. The interest rate is now preventing them from becoming employed, as we see how many layoffs and more unemployed people keep coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u75	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Peko for his excellent presentation on this matter. This has now received praise in this brief debate; no critical tone has been heard here, and for my part I will join this group. This is about the fixed-term solutions to social security and unemployment security that we have already made before, and they will now continue until the end of March. It has also been considered whether it is sufficient time. Well, we'll see it then, and I'm sure there'll be plenty of readiness to go on longer if necessary. In other words, it is a matter of mediation of unemployment benefit, an advance procedure and a mobility grant. As regards this section of the explanatory memorandum to the Act, I say: ‘The purpose of the amendments was to increase the incentives to employ people in critical tasks of security of supply, but also to After all, this epidemic has treated our population very differently. Studies show that between 70% and 80% of the population have not lost income. This does not mean, of course, that they have not also been gnawed by concern in terms of friends, relatives, family members, jobs and the whole of this situation, but yet some of the population has lost their jobs altogether or have lost their income significantly. In such a situation, of course, we need to think about how we are going to implement the social solidarity that we are sharing this burden more equally than we are dealing directly with people in this crisis. Of course, it can always be said that this can happen by raising taxes on those who work and then making transfers. But there could be no increase in taxes as much as this situation has required funding, and that would of course not even be a wise solution in terms of spinning the wheels of the economy. That is why we have resorted to this debt solution. Well, every country in this similar situation has taken on massive debt. It has been said that it is right then for our children and grandchildren. I believe that this bill and its payment will be a long-term matter, but it is now the realistic way to keep our society functioning, to maintain solidarity, to prevent people from falling completely outside society, and at the same time to create the conditions that when the economic wheels turn, then we will be in the best possible hit. I would like to remind you that in January this year we were at a higher employment rate than ever in 30 years. We were in fact on a 75% career already, but now we have fallen three to four percentage points from it, but certainly the economy will change when this corona crisis is over.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u76	Mr President! This is a special question: since we now have this fact that the days are not running out, there is no possibility, however, that, in the event of lay-off under the Employment Contracts Act, a person who has been laid off for 200 days would not have the right to lay off so that he would then also receive the notice period from the employer if he then resigns from the employment relationship because of a long lay-off?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u77	Secretary Bakonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u78	Mr President! I would like to thank the representatives for this good and very positive debate. The interest situation is indeed very unpredictable and unpredictable, and we do not know what is yet to come. Now the government has proposed that this law should enter into force as soon as possible and would actually be in force until the end of March 2021, but I believe that the government is, of course, prepared to look at this situation and to make the necessary changes to this legislation, as has been done, and I believe that Parliament will then be prepared to make and support these changes if necessary. We don't really know how to predict that yet. In this corona situation, the government has made a number of efforts to support and improve the financial situation of people, along with this health crisis. We have supported employees, employers, businesses and entrepreneurs. In his own speech, Mr Essayah raised the issue of the increase in the protection component and the possibility of pre-financing, and I agree with Mr Essayah that both these issues should be considered in this parliamentary reform of social security, which is under way. I think that the interest rate has indeed shown the importance of Finnish social security during this corona crisis, but at the same time it has also shown us all the obstacles and pits that exist in this social security system, and I think that in this parliamentary reform work we are also receiving very valuable information during this corona crisis from our social security system, and I believe that committee work can intervene in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u79	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u80	Mr President! This proposal proposes to provide for a co-operation structure in order to create national preparedness planning for social welfare and health care and to collect a national picture of the situation. The development needs related to the preparedness planning of social and health care and the development of the situation picture have been identified well in advance of the time of the corona pandemic. However, during the pandemic these needs have been highlighted, including material readiness. Finland, like other EU Member States, reports to the Commission every three years on the national risk assessment. The national risk assessment includes 20 significant risks from a national perspective or a threat of disturbance. This estimate was last made in 2018. Social and health care operators currently have regional and local contingency plans in varying ways, but they have not been implemented in a coherent manner on the basis of this national risk assessment. This bill implements a coherent planning framework for preparedness planning, which also allows regional risk weighting according to needs and risk assessments. Nationally integrated preparedness planning would be guided by university hospital districts in five specific geographical areas of responsibility. Every social and health care organisation would have uniform principles for preparedness planning in the future. Hospital districts operating a university hospital would cooperate with each other and work on uniform principles in such a way that preparedness planning would become a national entity. However, each municipality and hospital district would still be responsible for their own preparedness planning. The Act on Social Welfare would include a general obligation to provide provision in accordance with the provisions of the Act on Emergency Response, according to which the municipal institution responsible for social services must be prepared by means of contingency planning, both in emergency and emergency situations, and other measures to ensure the best possible performance of its duties in the event of disturbances and exceptional circumstances. This complements the general preparedness obligation currently in the Emergency Act. Coherent preparedness planning for social care would be carried out in line with health care by the municipalities of the district of the hospital district to draw up a joint plan under the direction of the social welfare authority of the central hospital. In order to create a situation picture, it is proposed that the hospital district operating a university hospital should gather and analyse information on the disruptions and threats of basic services and specialised medical care. The data would be collected from five specific responsibility areas in a uniform format, thus providing a comprehensive picture of the situation for all actors. A hospital district maintaining a university hospital would share a harmonised collection of situational picture information with municipalities and medical districts in their special responsibility for carrying out their duties. The situational picture information would also be shared with other university health care districts and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and this would support national decision-making. A new provision would be introduced in the Social Welfare Act to create a picture of the situation in social care. The municipal social welfare institution should, within its own territory, collect and analyse information on the disruptions and threats that endanger the social security and well-being of the population and the implementation of social welfare care, as well as create and maintain a picture of the state of play of the preparedness of social care. The situational picture of social services would be shared with other competent authorities, such as the Hospital District and the leading authority of social welfare services in the Hospital District, the Regional State Administrative Agency and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, for the purpose of managing the tasks and incident related to preparedness. Increasing co-operation between municipalities responsible for organising social services and the level of co-ordination of the special responsibility area would also enable the activities of social services to be designed in larger regions and to gather an up-to-date picture of the situation for regional and national needs. The possibility for the State to contribute to the maintenance of preparedness and the management of special situations would also be extended to social care activities, which are currently regulated only by the Health Care Act. Mr President! The purpose of the Government's proposal is therefore not to change the preparedness planning tasks of social welfare and health care operators that have already been laid down. The purpose of the proposal is to gather this information more effectively and thus significantly improve the capacity of social and health care to respond to various types of disturbances and threats. The proposed laws are intended to enter into force from the beginning of 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u81	Mr President! Good Minister! It is appropriate to improve the regulation of preparedness and preparedness, as well as the management of disturbances, and to clarify the role of the various actors is in principle a good thing. This bill has been in the consultation twice, for the first time since last spring and now in the summer. In the spring of 2020, C21 city leaders, the leaders of large cities, took a strong position that the proposal should not be taken forward as such. In their opinion, a very strong criticism of the draft law at the time was that the proposal does not improve but rather undermines the ability to lead social and health care and other critical services under exceptional circumstances. If implemented, the bill would break the existing well-functioning structures, create duplication of work and increase costs. In this way, significant proposals relating to the tasks, powers and autonomy of municipalities must be prepared carefully and in cooperation with the municipal field and not in the middle of a crisis. As a result of this feedback to the opinion, changes have been made to the law in the spring, and it no longer proposes direct changes to the responsibilities or the management of resources in relation to exceptional circumstances, but rather the proposed changes concern, above all, the creation of a situation picture and the guidance of this preparation. But there is still criticism from the cities about this, because it is seen that, in times of crisis, such a bill should not be passed. Is it the right time for this reform to take place, particularly from the point of view of urgent procedure? This is supposed to come into force from the beginning of the year. In particular, the Government's proposal is justified by the fragmented current system and the fact that the capabilities of a wide range of organisations and producers in specialised medical care, primary health care and social care do not allow the rapid collection of harmonised data and the appropriate use of resources at regional and national level. Well, I'm sure this is for real. But so far, as this crisis has already begun last spring, we have found the structures in which information can be obtained in the regions, and a mere change of law now does not bring anything new to this situation, to deal with this corona crisis. Therefore, it would make sense to prepare this in peace. I am going to bring up some of the ideas of some cities. For example, the City of Helsinki has raised the need for legislative changes to be carefully assessed only after the crisis and not in the context of the pandemic. The consultation period for the new consultation may be considered to be short, in particular given that the consultation took place during the summer holiday period. In the opinion of the City of Tampere, legislative changes should be adopted at the earliest after the corona epidemic or in the context of the newly-prepared social welfare reform. The City of Espoo is of the opinion that the legal amendments that are the subject of the opinion should not be made. The city sees that there is no appropriate justification for the urgent timetable for the legislative reform of the preparedness regulation. In its previous opinion, the city reiterated its view that the proposed timetable does not allow for such structurally important legislative solutions. The current covid-19 pandemic situation is not the right time for the legislative reform of preparedness regulation. The City of Helsinki also pointed out that the Finnish system has been exceptionally successful in managing the pandemic. However, as the government parties have raised here, and the opposition has also felt that Finland has succeeded reasonably well in this pandemic, so why should we now make such a major legislative change for the future? Preparedness should always be planned in a time of peace, so to speak, and when there is no crisis situation. These changes would require a thorough investigation and should also assess their link with social reform when the legislative package is brought here in Parliament. Such a link with the ongoing restructuring is problematic at this stage. Changes should only be made in the context of a potential social welfare reform, which should give careful consideration to cooperation and division of tasks between municipalities and regions in the field of preparedness. It is also important for municipalities and regions to be involved in this planning, so that we actually have effective joint structures, precisely those management patterns that work in the crisis, in the management of preparedness, in the best possible way. If, at the moment, the government and the ministry have such a feeling that they are not in control of this crisis management, then we should not make hasty decisions and go in such a radical way to change management patterns at this stage, in the middle of the crisis. This can certainly be dealt with when the corona crisis is over — for example, it is now predicted that after next spring — for example, the following autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u82	Mr President! With regard to this government proposal, the most important question is probably what would have been achieved if this had been in force before the corona epidemic in Finland took off. So what would have been the clear benefits of this legislation? The municipalities and joint municipal authorities, as has been heard here, are today obliged to prepare for disturbances in normal conditions and emergency conditions by means of contingency plans and many other measures, and, as was seen last spring, the municipalities were quite successful in doing so. Perhaps as a small beauty flaw, it was quite the so-called copy-paste method in many municipalities when it was wrongly stated — from one municipality to another — that there would have been an activation of Section 108 of the Emergency Act, which then led to the transfer of powers to the mayors there, and at the time when something more serious happened, that is to say, the mayor decided, for example, to start negotiations, then began to ask whether this section of the Emergency Act had been activated in this house. Perhaps this is something that, in the coming year, many inspection boards will probably have to make some kind of remark. This may have been a single swing, so to speak, which happened in the municipal court, but otherwise, when you look at this, from very small municipalities, these contingency plans, different compositions of management groups and others were quite successful, quite well. Perhaps here, when you look at this government proposal, you are now drawing attention to this picture of the situation and, as it were, to its coordination, but here there is a question and a little doubt as to how much we really want to influence and change these different management and responsibility relations, and then when I look at these economic effects, it is said here that this proposal would have no significant impact on the finances of the municipalities and the state. Well, of course, that information is always received at municipal level and, if I have understood it correctly, these provisions would also want to safeguard such situations that if there is a national disaster or crisis here, which is not the responsibility of a municipality or a joint municipal authority under the law, then in such specific circumstances and especially in their subsequent management, the State could also pay the costs incurred by the municipalities. For example, these natural disasters in south-east Asia, namely the tsunami, and the Málaga bus accidents and these school shootings, that is, these types of situations where the need for this national actor has been identified. But indeed the fundamental question is what would have been achieved by this, something that the current legislation failed to achieve last spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u83	Mr President! To this very beginning, it has to be said that the substance of the government's proposal is very important and timely in this time period in which we live. The aim is therefore to improve the capacity of social and health care to respond to various social disturbances and threats through more harmonised preparedness planning. I see that this reform is necessary, because there has been a fragmentation in the planning of preparedness for social welfare and health care, and there has been no uniform basis. There has also been a lack of a common picture of the situation in the event of major disruptions. So these shortcomings are now being corrected, and I believe that this corona pandemic we have at hand at the latest has increased the need and understanding for such a reform for the future. And certainly the corona pandemic has also helped to teach us about this preparedness planning work. In the future, therefore, national planning of preparedness would be guided by university hospital districts in five special areas of responsibility, thus creating a national entity. As Mr Pekonen said in his presentation, it is important that the obligation to prepare social services is now also laid down, as is already the case with health care. I also see this as very important. In other words, uniform preparedness planning for social care would be carried out in line with health care, so that the municipalities of the district of the hospital district would draw up a joint plan for the management of the work of the central hospital, the city, the social welfare authorities. In Satakunta, for example, this work would be carried out by the social welfare authorities of Pori. It should be noted that, although the aim is now to achieve a more uniform system at national level, it is still the responsibility of each individual municipality and hospital district to take responsibility for their own preparedness planning, and therefore the specific threats in their area will also be taken into account. Mr President! The national risk assessment now covers 20 different threat models or disturbances that are possible in Finland. These may include a pandemic such as corona, a large accident, a cyber attack or a nuclear accident. However, in some ways all of these also apply to social and health care, and none of them yet have a national plan of preparedness. It is important that work can be done to create a situation picture and start preparedness planning as soon as possible, as this process takes years and the need for reform is evident. I personally do not feel that this reform is being carried out in haste. Criticism that now is the wrong time for reform: when would the right time be when we do not know what threat and when will be facing us in the near future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u84	Mr President! We are dealing with a very important issue. In part, this is the first speech I will make on this Parliament's floor, which has been written in full advance. I have been involved in many crises. As an example, I would like to mention the shocking accident on the ferry to Estonia. That's when I was a member of the Marine Rescue Management Team. What matters now, however, is not what I have done, but what I have done: how should civil crises be dealt with in modern times, so that the outcome is as good as possible? In 2011, Prime Minister Vanhanen’s two Government Secretary Risto Volanen, Doctor of Political Science, Colonel Pekka Visuri and two other writers published the book “In the Eye of the Storm: Finland’s Division Crisis”. It addresses eight civilian crises in the period 2004-2010. Dr. Volanen's extensive article includes an important section on crisis management in the Finnish state administration: how to manage crisis management in the case of a civilian crisis that is smaller than a war but greater than a crisis managed by a rescue service, police or other individual authorities? This is the corona crisis we are currently experiencing. It is a crisis of health, economics, social life and security. In Finland, the fight against corona pandemic has been well managed. Have you had to improvise? Yes. If we had known more, would different decisions have been taken? Maybe. But the most important thing is that the result of the fight so far has been one of the best in Europe. Therefore, my following, partly critical views are not criticism of the government or the authorities, but general comments on regulations. I will raise issues that must be taken into account when this proposal and the wider issue are being discussed. At the same time, I hope that the proposal will be dealt with quickly, because this must be put into effect at the beginning of next year. We have had to deal with the corona crisis in circumstances where the general legal basis for crisis management is not entirely clear. I am not referring to the Act on communicable diseases, which has mostly worked excellently, even though there is something to be corrected for. I am talking about a wide-ranging crisis in many different ministries, which is not just an infectious disease crisis. It is not a question of whether there has been enough cooperation or coordination, or whether individual officials or decision-makers have made the right decisions, but it is a question of the fact that, through a number of government periods, there have been vague and interpretative points in the entire regulation on the management and management of large-scale crises and that they have been passed on to the next governments. I'm putting it into practice, and I don't do it with hindsight. The same issues were discussed in depth after the tsunami crisis in 2006-2008. The then Prime Minister Vanhanen and the then Prime Minister's deputy Eero Heinäluoma would know well what I mean. What is the role of the Prime Minister's Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's Office in relation to specialised ministries? What is the role of municipalities, hospital districts, regional government authorities and expert offices such as THL? With regard to the fight against communicable diseases of general concern, their functions are defined in the Act on communicable diseases, but the whole is very complex and complex in terms of the management of such a major crisis. There will be a huge number of working groups and responsible parties, and they will return to the time of the key people. What is the legal validity of the recommendations? Who has the power to decide and how much? What is the role of mayors, for example? I personally find no operational role in the infectious disease law for them, but I still think it is a good thing that they are providing information on important issues. And they are responsible for the finances of the municipalities they run. When this draft law was in the consultation, it received a critical reception from the municipalities, as Mr Laiho said here. This is not covered up in the explanatory memorandum either. I myself thought the draft law was quite good at the time — better than the present one. I am, of course, in favour of this bill. It's a step in the right direction, but it's watered down from the early summer version. The role of the university hospital districts was heartburned by the municipality. I'm sure there was some misunderstanding. On the other hand, it is a question of power competition between different levels of government and institutions, which is very common. Originally, a clear three-level crisis management system was sought, which is ideal for a large geographical area of Finland: central government, five special areas of responsibility and municipalities. There are no direct management of more than 300 municipalities or even 21 hospital districts. It was not a question of social care being subjected to specialised medical care, but of the medical districts of university hospitals being used as an organisational level, reinforced by the knowledge of both primary and social care, and they guide the activities of municipalities in the management of the social and health crisis. Now this is mainly a draft law on preparedness planning management and on how to create a situation picture of the crisis. That's good, but we have to go further. Finally, as far as the corona crisis is concerned, we are now at the cutting edge of Finland: either the violent epidemic in the capital region is spreading throughout the country, or we can turn it into a career of daily infections with strong restrictive measures. It is now our main task here in Parliament and in society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u85	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Lindén, for your very expert speech. I admit that I am not very familiar with this problem. Here Mr Viljanen justified the urgency of the matter, and Mr Laiho expressed doubts about it. I would now like Mr Pekonen to answer the questions put by Mr Laiho. Mr Laiho pointed out that the 21 largest cities had criticised this proposal and, as I understand it, the timetable, and the questions relating to the timetable are just as follows: What is the reason, in the midst of a pandemic, in the midst of a crisis, for a reform of this kind to take place? For example, the lessons currently available for dealing with the crisis are not yet available for this legislation. And the second question raised by Mr Laiho, I understand, was that, when he has links with the forthcoming reform of the province, i.e. social security reform, why, at this stage, when this reform of the province and social security is still at the stage — the draft law is not to be passed on to Parliament, not to mention that it has been dealt with by Parliament — to carry out the reform, to speed up the reform, which has links to this new regional or welfare administration created by the social welfare reform. I believe that these are important and good questions and I would like Mr Pekonen to give them good answers. All in all, as far as these government priorities are concerned, there is little to be surprised about. As we can see and are generally aware, Parliament operates under exceptional circumstances, that is what can be said, and in an exceptional situation. You would think that, in such a situation, there would be no rush to introduce major, significant reforms which would require thorough and, you might say, the treatment of normal conditions — I am referring, for example, to the extension of compulsory schooling. But, overall, I hope that the Minister will answer the questions put by Mr Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u86	At this stage, the time allocated in advance is running out, so Minister Pekonen, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u87	Mr President! Thank you for your excellent, comprehensive contributions. Firstly, to begin with, I would like to say that this bill has not been prepared because of this crisis. The preparation of this bill has already been underway before the corona crisis occurred, and, for example, in the Convention on Emergency Conditions for Social and Health Care long before the beginning of the corona pandemic, this government proposal was explicitly prioritised high in order to prepare and take forward it at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and that is what we have done. Some time ago, I was specifically asked for and promised improvements in preparedness and preparedness, and now that we are at this point in presenting this very well-run government proposal to you, it seems a little strange that it is being criticised. It is quite true what Mr Laiho said that this government proposal has been the subject of two statements, precisely because, after the first consultation, this government proposal received a lot of criticism. The government proposal was changed on the basis of this criticism and we then decided that we would send it back to the consultation because there were so many changes and we wanted to hear comments about it. After that, the comments were clearly in support of this proposal. We have also heard separately the heads of the hospital districts and the chief of staff on this issue, and everyone supported and encouraged this government's proposal to be taken forward. With regard to the social reform that is under preparation, this structure will be transferred to social welfare areas, so in so far as this does not conflict with social welfare reform, it will become part of it. I would also like to say that we are now also starting a long-term round of regional preparedness planning, and that is what we will use in the future. Mr Essayah asked what would have been achieved if this proposal had already been in force. At least the situation of contingency plans could indeed be better if we had had this in place, and at the same time we would have had a much better picture of the regions from the outset. As a result, preparedness plans can also be better steered and clear recommendations made, for example, on material preparedness. I would also like to say that we have plans in the STM to develop preparedness and preparedness even after this proposal, and then for future governments, and we are now doing everything we can to develop preparedness in this regime.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u88	Thank you. — The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u89	We will now resume the debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u90	Mr President! This Government's proposal to amend the Health Care Act and the Social Welfare Act into laws would change the provisions on preparedness planning and the creation of a situation picture in social and health care. Well, there's been a good conversation. I listened to it in my room. There were experts here, and they wondered if this was the right time. I myself feel that, at a time when the situation is in place, there should be no major upheavals, but there should then also be lessons to be learned from this treatment of the corona epidemic. When we have specifically considered what the role of a university hospital would be, I would remind you that when we talk here about its role in creating a health situation picture in the future, that picture will be created, for example, if we talk about this corona epidemic, precisely in those regions. That is why I say that now that we have basic health care, special care — and they are here in their own territory where there are hospital districts — and then there are so-called separations, i.e. university hospital districts, it is so important that cooperation and division of labour are not duplicated and that, on the other hand, the situation picture remains the right one. After all, the picture of the situation may change over the day several times, and that is why regional information is important. Even now, the medical district is updating the situation picture. We have such a regional fist, a hospital-specific one, created there, which is a good thing, and now we should take advantage of the fact that it does not happen that a university hospital is responsible for the task, which is not able to look at the whole. Well, whatever the case, in any case, such a readiness organisation requires organisations, municipalities and hospital districts, both university hospital districts and those other hospital districts. And then I would like to add to the debate on this security of supply. I submitted a written question to the government on the issue of the security of supply report, because we always give decisions and plans on this security of supply every few years, but Parliament is not included in it. I am very pleased that Mr Haavisto, during Question Time, was struggling with my idea of a parliamentary security of supply report — to see if we have security of supply in order. And even in this context, it is worth taking into account this organisation, how the readiness is maintained. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u91	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u92	Mr President! It is right that we should also have reacted to the measures resulting from the corona crisis, because now, if these changes had not been extended, we would be in a situation where the activities that must be carried out could not be carried out. The Ministry has prepared this follow-up, and in the sense of saying that this is perhaps a timely comment if we talk about today's situation. The President of the Republic has already said that he has been in support of exceptional circumstances when they were brought up by the government and, if we remember the latest news now, the President will still be prepared, if the government so suggests, to bring exceptional circumstances to this country. In that sense, it is good that these meetings can be kept at a distance in the construction of real estate and in the same way in reindeer husbandry areas and in common forest matters, once they have been made possible by this exceptional law. We need such temporary procedures to deal with matters. At the end of the day, Mr President, I hope that we can say as we did in the song: ‘Ad hoc for all. “ Let's hope we get over this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u93	Mr President! In that I can agree with the predecessor that it is hoped that this interest rate will be temporary and that it will be removed. However, even in this legislative proposal, the intention is indeed to continue with the Government's proposal, which has already been made, which will enable these necessary meetings to be held, such as real estate deliveries, shareholders' meetings and the meetings provided for in the Law on reindeer husbandry, to be held at a distance, and the law is now to be extended until the end of June. This is exactly the kind of legislation we have been discussing here with regard to communities and associations. In this respect, I must say that I hope that we will have an amendment to the Association Act to avoid that we should do... — Here, the Minister of Justice will arrive when changes to the Association Act are desired. — — — — Under the Associations Act, it would be possible for associations to keep their annual meetings at a distance, otherwise this would mean unbridled rumba in the reform of these rules. The Board of Patents and Registrations is going to be blocked, because at this time, now that this legislation which makes it possible to introduce a different procedure has been in force, many associations have begun to wonder that this should be possible otherwise, and if the rules of the association do not allow it, then the rules will have to be changed. I only think with horror when Finland is the so-called promised country of associations, that if all associations then begin to make this similar change, it would be very important in that sense that this possible holding of annual meetings at a distance should be done through the amendment of the Association Act. I'm sure it would save a lot of bureaucracy and stuff. However, in many associations and even in the organisation of the meetings in this presentation, there has been a digital leap which has certainly also led to a shift in activity and has shown that things can also be arranged differently. Of course, there was a debate here at the time, especially about associations, about the importance of social contact for people and meeting others. Certainly, all meetings would be only remote, at least not all participants in various associations and shareholders, real estate deliveries and meetings within the meaning of the Reindeer Management Act do not necessarily wish to do so. But we really do expect that if there were to be a legislative change here, then there would not always be a need for these separate derogations to be regulated by a government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u94	Mr President! Mr Essayah has made a good point here. Of course, everything we have learned now, what we have had to adapt to, is very good to do, but I do believe that the changes in the rules need to be made, even if the law of association changes, in every association. What is important now is to ensure that all these good ideas on the digital leap can be realised, so that we do broadband legislation, and that we must indeed have the opportunity to be in those countries too, and not water down the legislation so that mobile communications can begin to regulate in such a way that, in the event of congestion or disruption, we can reduce efficiency as significantly as we are now apparently in the course of a new consultation, which would be possible by means of a Government decree. Now we have to monitor everywhere that this digital leap is indeed an opportunity for all Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u95	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u96	Mr President, värderade talman! The present proposal proposes to amend the criminal code. The rule on the prosecution of an illegal threat would be amended so that the offence would be formally prosecuted if the illegal threat was directed to a person on account of his/her duties and the offender was not a member of the staff of the workplace. The prosecution should also prosecute an illegal threat if the offence has been committed against a person because of his public trust.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u97	Madam President! Minister! The government proposes to turn an illegal threat into a formal charge if an illegal threat is directed to a person because of his/her duties or because of his/her public trust. I would like to give my full support to this proposal, which is absolutely essential. It is a step in the right direction in guaranteeing the functioning of society. This proposal would provide additional tools against targeting those in positions of employment and public confidence, while at the same time improving the position of victims. As a result of their official activities, the authorities have been increasingly threatened by violence, and with current developments this phenomenon is unlikely to be mitigated. It is in the interests of all of us to defend the reliability, impartiality and operational capacity of the public authority organisation. In my view, if an individual authority is threatened and is thus affected by his activities or decision-making, it is entirely justified that the prosecution should be allowed to prosecute an illegal threat without a separate requirement for the plaintiff to be punished. The same applies to those in public positions of trust. In the end, it is more than an individual: it is a situation in which the fundamental functions of a democratic society are affected inappropriately, and it is therefore quite clear that society must also intervene. In addition to the social impact, it is, of course, also a major problem at individual level that we must not ignore. In the end, it is also a question of their own well-being. I do not think it is unreasonable to demand that these people carry out their duties without threats of violence or other crimes. Or if this happens, it should not be on their shoulders alone to start a criminal procedure. In the worst case scenario, the victim — in fear of escalation or even revenge — will not do this and will never even be allowed to investigate the case. It is not a private matter, so responsibility must not be left to an individual. Mr President! When discussing this theme, freedom of expression is also often raised. Freedom of expression is one of the key elements of our fundamental and human rights, and that is quite clear. Unfortunately, it does not always seem so clear that freedom of expression is not without limits. Freedom of expression and restrictions on it always involve weighing between different rights, and we should not create the impression that such statements want to unduly restrict freedom of expression. People have, and will always have, the right to give hard feedback. However, this does not mean that, for example, threats of violence would be acceptable. That is by no means the case. While freedom of expression must be respected, it must not be used as a pretext to forget other fundamental rights. For example, according to Article 10 of the Constitution, everyone’s private life, honor and home peace have been secured, which brings us to my next consideration. Although I support this initiative and its objective, this is nothing more than a first step in the right direction. Further action is needed, because it is ultimately a very wide-ranging phenomenon that cannot be tackled simply by a change in the right to prosecute an illegal threat. I believe that in similar situations, at least, it would also be appropriate to transform the dissemination of information that violates private life, defamation and also the violation of the media peace into crimes under public prosecution. I also believe that a more precise definition of the target as its own distinguishing mark would be necessary. With the Government's proposal in the consultation, similar comments were also received on a wide range of experts. The direction is correct, but not yet sufficient. I understand that this is a difficult whole, but these measures must be taken. There may be challenges in drawing up borders and definitions, but that is no reason not to do things. We must ensure that the authorities who work importantly and those who work in public confidence are allowed to do their work without threats and other systematic harassment. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u98	Madam President! The bill is a good one, and it is pleasant to accept it, because now the door has been opened so that this can then develop further. It is right that people who are doing their job and, in many cases, people who are doing their work for the benefit of society, saving, trying to take responsibility for the whole community in positions of trust or work, should have security and peace to do their work without fear and intimidation. On the other hand, I personally believe that everyone should have the same level of protection. Every Finnish citizen must have the same right to that protection under the law. We are taking a situation in which a person has stood up in municipal elections or in parliamentary elections without any standing in that situation: he is forced to withdraw because of fear, because of threats from his own candidacy and is unable to act, as this society should be, bringing his own affairs, his own views. That is what is still missing and, as the previous speaker has said very well, we still have to call for measures. Similarly, drawing the line to where and what kind of speech is being given: Let us stick to freedom of expression, precisely so that if threats prevent a person’s freedom of expression because he has to be afraid, then it must certainly be eradicated, but we cannot do it in any way so that we have to weigh every single word in principle. You have to be able to give that criticism and criticism and give your own opinion. Of course, what descriptions and illustrations are used is everyone’s own business, and that is where opinions show that it is purposeful because of a person’s background or opinions and involves a threat, it must not be done. As far as the goal is concerned, it is a good thing that it will at least come up in this debate now, but it will require even more and longer-term reflection or clarity as to what it may be. It is good that this is now moving forward and, as I said at the beginning, the door is now open for the better development of things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u99	Madam President! Thank you to Minister Henriksson for this bill, which proposes to amend the criminal law so that the rule on the prosecution of an illegal threat is amended so that the act would be subject to official prosecution if an illegal threat was committed to a person on account of his duties and the offender was not a member of the staff of the workplace. The prosecution should also prosecute an illegal threat if the offence has been committed against a person because of his public trust. Mr President! We have a lot of employees who are doing their important work, including the police, paramedics, social welfare and health care staff, prison staff, and also representatives. They must be able to do their work in peace and also have the right to physical and mental integrity. This bill would provide an additional tool and support to employees, officials and representatives. It is also an indication that their work is valued and their position is valued and they will not be left alone if this happens. And this law also has an important preventive effect. The awareness that it can be prosecuted will certainly also raise the threshold for various threats. This has social implications. Of course, we must be able to work and we must be able to do the work of the workers and officials, and also the political decision-makers, but at the same time, we must, of course, ensure that we have the right to freedom of expression. Such a threat also has significant effects at individual level, the extent of which cannot even be predicted. It is not just a single threat; it has a variety of effects. And that is why it is very important that we get this law here in Parliament and get it through.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u100	Mr President! Fear is currently preventing many people from participating in the social debate. Fear guides what is discussed at all and who participates in it. Fear prevents people from running for election. Fear paralyzes me. Fear slows you down. Fear is all in the body. Mr President! It is often said that fear should not be given power. I've been thinking about that message a lot. How does it feel for a person who constantly has to fear, what kind of feedback does his social participation bring? Am I somehow fragile and weak if I feel fear in the midst of dozens and dozens of abusive hate messages and after those that tear apart my whole womanhood, threaten and take away human dignity? Rather, is it not the case that this society should be able to protect every individual so that no one has to fear social activity? It cannot be just a matter of individuals whether fear can be turned into a resource and stepped above it. Mr President! The amendment to the criminal code before us today on an illegal threat is in fact a minor correction, but symbolically very significant. It sends out a signal that the growing hate speech is under collective responsibility for all of us. It is no longer up to the victim himself to go forward with the illegal threat to him. According to the proposal, it is proposed to amend the provision on the prosecution of an illegal threat so that the act would be subject to official prosecution if the illegal threat were to be directed against a person because of his/her duties and the offender was not a member of the staff of the workplace. The prosecution would also be entitled to prosecute an illegal threat if the act had been committed against a person because of his public trust. This government proposal is very welcome in a situation where the public debate climate has become more intense, especially in social media. Threatening is a serious threat to the democratic rule of law. It is important that legislation now tackles the fact that the fight against illegal hate speech does not just fall on the victim's shoulders. Many people do not even know how many professional groups in their daily work are forced to tolerate systematic hate speech and paint. For example, policemen, researchers, social workers, prosecutors and judges are increasingly being threatened and targeted. This is extremely dangerous for the functioning of democracy as a whole, as the goal of the goal is to seriously interfere with the activities of the authorities, but also with the decision-making process. Mr President! However, it is important to remember that even this bill is not enough when we act against growing hate crime. We need a wide range of other means and the whole of the legislation to promote, among other things, the criminalisation of paint. Often not all forms of hate crime are even familiar to the authorities, which is why a lot of training is needed in this area. It is also the case that, in many cases, hate speech and hate crime are particularly affected by groups that are already in a vulnerable position in principle, including those belonging to different minorities. Not all people have the same resources to protect themselves against hate speech. That is why, in addition to amending legislation, we also need resources for the work of the authorities, for more knowledge and for training. At present, few people dare or are able to take forward cases that meet the criteria for an illegal threat. There is often a lack of hope that the report of a crime does not lead to anything, or fear that the report will create a new cycle of hate speech and paint. This is also why the government's proposal is so important. Mr President! It is up to us all to act against fear. Fear is not a private matter. It is our responsibility to protect democracy from hatred and to uphold freedom of expression every single day. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u101	Mr President! Everyone should have the right to do their job or to act in public confidence without any undue harassment or fear. No one should have to face threats of violence or crime in their work — no one in any profession or activity. Still, a lot of people do. The proposed change would therefore enhance the responsiveness of both society and the employer to threats and targets directed at those in positions of employment and public confidence, thereby improving the position of victims. This government proposal is therefore an important part of a larger, ambitious objective to tackle more effectively harassment, intimidation and targeting. It is clear that the actions of the authorities and our political decision-makers must be subject to public criticism and debate, but it is also clear that public criticism is not the same as extremes such as an illegal threat. The creation of any threat is not giving feedback or assessing another's work, nor will it become so, even if it is aimed at concealing freedom of speech or opinion. The government is therefore not carrying out a law reform that violates these fundamental rights, but is, for example, safeguarding the peace of important work, public authorities or professionals in other fields, for the benefit of all of us and of this society. It is difficult to define and intervene in painting, but it should never be an obstacle to the fact that we are not at last trying to tackle this phenomenon quickly. Painting is always a serious threat to the democratic rule of law, as we have already heard in previous speeches in this Chamber today. Society must be able to give a clear signal that there is a serious and unacceptable approach to target and all kinds of threats. That is exactly what this government proposal is saying, but this is only part of it. We still need a lot of other measures to achieve the important objectives included in the Government Programme. I would also like to mention that threats or targets are not limited to, for example, the profession of government or trust. It is therefore important to extend the protection to all persons who are subject to illegal threats because of their work or duties of trust. This provision should cover any situation in which a person encounters this threat because of his profession or position, for example, there are situations where harassment is sought through leisure activities, thereby affecting the person’s work or position. Nor should we forget that a person may be the victim of such a crime because of his or her own work or public trust, and more effective means must also be found to deal with these situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u102	Madam President! I very much welcome the fact that the illegal intimidation of employees and of the person in charge of the public trust is at last being addressed. Those who are victims of an illegal threat because of their duties will no longer be left to their own devices. Now responsibility can be placed without the victim himself being active in seeking justice or under pressure to give up his claims. This is a very serious and wide-ranging problem. According to a number of studies, workers, officials, journalists, researchers and political decision-makers are increasingly being subjected to harassment and threats of violence or other crime, especially in social media instruments, and it is constantly growing. There has also been an increase in the number of targets, false reports and complaints, and vandalism, which have been mentioned here on a number of occasions. In my opinion, this increase in the illegal threat also shows respect for fellow citizens and the fundamental pillars of our democratic society. I believe that this kind of hate speech is damaging, above all, our precious democracy. Studies show that hate speech has reduced the motivation of politicians to influence controversial issues. In this Chamber, we must fight ruthlessly to ensure that employees or shopkeepers do not have to be afraid of doing their own job. Society must be able to respond more quickly and effectively to these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u103	Let us take Mr Werner here, then Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u104	Madam President! According to Prime Minister Sanna Marin’s Government Programme, ‘Participative Finland’, cross-administrative measures are being implemented during the Government term to address more systemic harassment, This government proposal is yet another concrete step towards the determined implementation of the Government Programme. Again, words become government acts. According to the government's proposal now before us, it is proposed to amend the provision on the prosecution of an illegal threat so that the act would be subject to official prosecution if the illegal threat were directed to a person on account of his duties and the offender was not a member of the staff of the workplace. The prosecution should also prosecute an illegal threat if the offence has been committed against a person because of his public trust. The publication series 57 of the Government’s study and research activities for 2019 dealt with the research they had commissioned in “Vahavalla: Effects of hate speech on social decision-making”. The study made it clear that there is no unusual choice as a decision-maker as a target for hate speech. It is very common for the decision-maker to receive offensive, abusive and even threatening messages. Of course, illegal threats are not only targeted at decision-makers, but have unfortunately become part of the everyday life, for example, for those who work in health and social care, as well as for those who work in various service sectors. As a general rule, the authorities may also be concerned with a false criminal report or a complaint made as a result of an official act. It is a matter of targeting — systematic, mass-stranded threats or persecution — where the originator of the action deliberately shows that the object of the threat or other harassment will come to the attention of the supporters by direct invitations or hidden expressions. Madam President! I well remember the opening of the Parliaments and the way the President of the Republic raised hate speech in his opening speech, that there is a great need for someone to make another speech worthless because of his opinion and his actions. Hate speech often involves direct threats. We have been proud that, in Finland, everyone can seek different occupations or political positions of trust or even stand for elections in accordance with their interest. I think we should hold on to this. It is normal for a heated debate to take place, especially in situations where there has been an increase in political confrontation. This debate must be conducted in a proper manner without offending the other, not with words of hate and threats. Whether it is decision-makers or employees, everyone must be able to carry out their own duties without experiencing undue harassment, threats of violence or other crime. There is every reason to be concerned about how commonplace hate speech and threats have become in Finland, especially with a very easy message in social media. These conscious comments, intended to exert pressure or silence, inevitably affect the person affected. These acts are cowardly and substandard. A change in the prosecution of the proposed illegal threat would enhance society's response to threats against those in positions of employment and public confidence and would improve the position of victims of such behaviour. A change in the right to prosecute an illegal threat would improve the status of the victim and would demonstrate that threats of violence or other crimes against those in positions of employment or public confidence are unacceptable and are not a private matter for the parties. Moreover, this change would improve the ability of public authorities to address illegal threats. I think that this government proposal is very important and it is very good that we have started to correct this problem. It is good to move on from this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u105	Secretary Henrikson, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u106	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank all the representatives for their support for this important proposal. From the point of view of society, we are talking about a very, very important issue. As has been said here, fear hinders participation in the social debate today, and that is something we cannot agree to. That is why this motion is so important. In this context, I would also like to point out that this proposal is also relevant for equality. The threat of violence or its fear is a particularly significant threat to security, particularly in relation to certain women in women-dominated sectors or in public or leading positions. This proposal is therefore also relevant for equality. I would also like to remind Members that the Emeritus Archbishop, Kari Mäkinen, led a working group whose task was to come up with proposals for a more effective eradication of hate speech and illegal harassment by criminal law. This is now a concrete indication of what the work of its working group has led to. I would also like to thank the previous government for setting up the Mäkinen Task Force. Finally, I would like to say that from now on the government will continue to work to combat and prevent the target. In many speeches it was raised. A commentary appointed by the Prime Minister’s Office, doctor of law, district judge Mika Illman, is currently assessing the legal basis for the goal and possible new legislative proposals. We will therefore return to this important issue. This is an important step in the right direction. Freedom of expression is an important fundamental right,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u107	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u108	We will now resume the debate on item 7 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u109	Mr President! This proposal is, if I may say so, unfortunately welcome. An illegal threat here is brought under official charge when it is directed against a person because of his or her job. Targeting is an increasingly burdensome element of the work of officials, researchers and politicians alike. It threatens freedom of expression and information, but also research and public authorities. So it is high time that we intervene effectively in the goal-making process. This is a worthy proposal, which is a step in the right direction, but not enough on its own. That is why I hope that the broader study of the targets and the measures needed to eradicate it, which is under way in the Ministry of Justice, will proceed rapidly. This proposal amends the right to prosecute an illegal threat in such a way that it is subject to official prosecution if the offence is committed against a person on account of his/her duties and the offender is not a member of the staff of the workplace. In addition, the prosecutor may also prosecute an illegal threat if the offence has been committed against a person because of his public trust. The recruitment of next spring's municipal elections is under way, and unfortunately there is no one or two candidates who have asked how terrible it is to carry out the task of a politician because of the messages that go into person and even threats against you or your family. We must not allow this action to prevent the functioning of democracy and stand for election. This proposal covers a wide range of areas, which is good. This includes social work, teaching tasks and judicial and police activities. There is also a broad definition of tasks: artistic and scientific activities. This is good in order to safeguard both democracy and the status of these people, because journalists and artists must remain free to raise issues that may heat up feelings or debate without fear. Targeting should be taken seriously so that the threshold does not fall even worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u110	Irade the Talman! Vi lever i en tid när gränserna flyttas. De flyttas obemärkt ibland. Vi märker inte hur respekten för varandra och respekten för våra system urholkas. När vi säger det är det ganska självklart att ingen ska behöva frukta för sin egen skerhet, men det är inte en självklarhet i dag. Därför är den ox föreslagna ändringen av strafflagen mer läkommen, så att vi från samhällets sida markerar vad som är acceptabelt och vad som inte är det. Det kan inte vara så att du ska drunk hot och osäkerhet för att du utför din arbetsuppgift eller sköter ett förtroendeuppdrag där du uttrycker dina åsikter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u111	President! This is indeed, as Mr Hopsu has said, an extremely desirable law. Illegal threats and so-called targets are now under indictment. I have drawn attention to the debate on who, in particular, receives these targets and such threats — it is a diverse group of professionals, but for example, police officers, health workers, teachers and decision-makers. The reporters also made such an appeal that this should be addressed. This is very important. Then I will draw attention to one thing that has not been discussed very much in Finland. Medi News published an article in May, about which I am surprised that it is not very much discussed: doctors and nurses treating Korona patients are being abused, and it has come from the international arena. In other words, many different channels tell us that mental and physical violence is being inflicted on health personnel in countries struggling with the epidemic. The International Association of Nurses (ICN) has reported that, through its network, there have been very worrying messages that many types of violence have been committed against health professionals working in the front line of the fight against corona during the epidemic. Health care staff in several countries have faced discrimination and isolation. People also believe they're spreading the corona virus. A Mexican nurse told me at the ICN webinar that her colleague had been sprinkled with bleach and some had been thrown hot coffee on the way home. The Economist also wrote in the spring that harassment and violence against health professionals have increased during the pandemic. The exposure of nursing staff to violence and harassment on business trips is also increased by the fact that the rest of the population is mainly isolated from their homes and there are few other people in public transport. For the second time last week, the European Medical Organisations, in the midst of a pandemic of health professionals, took the stand on violence. These are truly worrying news, and now that this corona epidemic is chastising us to varying degrees in different areas, it is also very important to raise this concern. But on this bill: I think it is very important, and in my life I have worked with precisely such professional groups who are experiencing this type of problem. This is very much to be welcomed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u112	Värderade Talman! Thank you for your excellent contributions. Here, among other things, Mr Risikko and Mr Norrback well described how there is some sort of transfer of borders in society and how there is a lack of respect in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u113	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u114	Mr President! The Government has already twice proposed amendments to the Employment Protection Act and the Act on Public Employment and Business Services related to the covid-19 pandemic. The aim was to secure the right of layoffs and other unemployed people to unemployment benefit and to ensure that during the pandemic, TE Offices could concentrate resources on the most critical tasks. The derogations shall be valid until the end of this year. Prolongation of the epidemic and public fear of the disease continue to reduce economic activity in society, depending on the sector. This has had a significant impact on consumer demand. Companies have reduced their workforce, which is also reflected in the large number of laid-off job seekers at the TE Offices. In this situation, the Government has considered it justified to propose to Parliament that the temporary provisions on unemployment benefit and the services of the TE Office be extended partly to the year 2021. The most important temporary changes to the Unemployment Security Act in my field of activity concern the right to lay-off unemployment benefit and the right to labour market support for entrepreneurs. Unemployment benefit would continue to be paid to laid-off persons during the period of lay-off without further study, and this change would be valid until the end of next year 2021. Labour market support would continue to be paid to entrepreneurs in the event of a reduction in the amount of work or company income due to a pandemic, but business activity will continue. As a rule, unemployment benefit is not paid in such a situation. The exemption for labour market support for entrepreneurs would be extended until the end of March next year. During January next year, the Employment and Economic Development Offices would retain a margin of discretion as to whether they will organise the so-called fixed-term interviews of the jobseeker. The processing situation of TE Offices is estimated to be congested at the turn of the year, which will be influenced, among other things, by ongoing cooperation procedures in companies and estimates that the number of layoffs will remain at a high level. In order to ensure the livelihood of unemployed job seekers, it is important that the Employment and Economic Development Offices have the opportunity to organise their tasks in such a way that resources can be allocated to dealing with unemployment security issues for job seekers. In addition, a temporary amendment to the Unemployment Security Act would be extended until January 21, i.e. until the end of January next year, which would not result in a loss of unemployment benefit if the employment plan was neglected and a young uneducated place of education was not applied for. Now that the functioning of the TE Offices has been secured during a difficult year and after the busy turn of the year, interviews with jobseekers and the preparation and updating of employment plans will be back to the so-called normal working methods from February 2021. The proposal relates to and is intended to be dealt with in the context of the supplementary draft budget for 2021. The change in labour market support for entrepreneurs is estimated to increase the costs for the state by EUR 47.7 million and to affect around 22,000 entrepreneurs per month, unless there are significant changes in this pandemic and employment situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u115	Madam President! At present, a considerable number of people have been laid off, who have been studying full-time for a long time — a year, two, perhaps three, some less time — and have financed their lives with it. They have acquired a profession at times, and when they have not got a job in that field, they do some evening, weekend or daytime jobs and then study along with it. It is important that, now that they are laid off, they are able to continue their studies and then there will be no interruptions or problems in the way the benefits go. That layoff can be so short. Even in my own neighborhood, there was experience of how it went smoothly, when we were laid off for a while and studied, there was no interruption in it. We have many entrepreneurs who have been disciplined by this corona with a very hard hand. Entrepreneurs are now also entitled to labour market support — and this will continue — if their income does not exceed EUR 1100 per month. This is an important issue, but now that we are looking at this interest rate situation and the government is probably tightening these interest rate restrictions, I would ask the Minister: is the government paying enough attention now to the support of small micro-entrepreneurs, to what additional support could be given to them in this regard? If business activity is restricted, it is particularly difficult for service entrepreneurs and they do not really have any concrete opportunities to cope with this continuing interest rate situation. It is important to prevent companies from going down — even small businesses and micro-enterprises, where there are one or two people at work — while, once after the interest rate situation, many of them have the capacity to continue to do business when they are only now sufficiently supported. If the company is driven down and the entrepreneur becomes unemployed, then it is often difficult to get started again: the motivation is gone, and perhaps the economy is in really bad shape. When this corona is sometimes overcome, it would be good to assess precisely what the effects of this corona have been. For the future, it would be of paramount importance to clarify what will be done in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u116	Madam President! First of all, it is easy to support Mr Lehdo's idea that, after this state of emergency, the government and Parliament certainly want to know what measures have been most important in supporting, among other things, operators in various sectors of the economy and, of course, the unemployed in this very difficult situation, when this pandemic is at stake. But now we have a very important follow-up to the interest rate bill at the moment — I personally think so — and the very important labour market support for entrepreneurs will continue with this proposal until the end of March, when the current legislation would have ended at the end of the year. In addition, unemployment benefit would continue to be paid to laid-off persons for the duration of the lay-off period, without prejudice to studies. The latter proposal would continue until the end of 2021. Of course, we must be able to reconsider these things too if and when we continue to have this annoying disease. It is also important to respond to this discretion of the TE Offices, because each of us knows that the processing situation at the turn of the year is expected to become congested in any case, and of course unemployed job seekers also need that face-to-face, important service through the TE Offices. As Mr Haatainen said in his own presentation, the government has twice already proposed amendments to the Act on Unemployment Protection and Public Employment and Business Services relating to its pandemic, and now we are in this situation. The intention has been, and of course it remains, to safeguard the right of lay-offs and other unemployed people to unemployment benefit and, of course, to ensure that the important point I have mentioned is that during this pandemic, the TE Offices can concentrate resources on those most critical tasks. To my fellow Members and my fellow Members, for the record, we are already in the time frame for this government proposal 229 here today in the referral debate, and we have also dealt with this proposal in the form of a pre-trial report today following the hearings in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u117	Madam President! All we can do is welcome with joy that something is being done in this grayness and misery for the entrepreneurs too. It is a great thing that the coalition of governments, where the left-wing parties are strongly involved, takes account of business, because it is also in the interests of our employees. It is very important not to have to stop business when the problem arises. I agree with what Mr Lehdo and Mr Taimela have said, and in particular with what Mr Lehto said: now all the experience is being gathered here, because it is certainly good to look at changes in the unemployment security of entrepreneurs after this epidemic. In some ways, it seems unreasonable when business starts to decline — and the flow of income has of course been deteriorating — and unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs is paid for the last period and not according to the amount of unemployment insurance contributions paid by a person in his entrepreneurial history. And this problem also needs to be examined at some point, then, whether it is justified in the case of declining business and then whether it is necessary to stop doing business. So we still have some talk, but this government has grabbed the bull by the horns, and in that sense, thank the Minister for taking these things forward. All that interest is made, but it is easy to support the issues of humanity, entrepreneurship and the position of workers that have now been raised. It is a good thing that we have the right of the unemployed to continue their education and training, because it is precisely in this situation that it is important that those unemployed who are studying have the opportunity to develop and complete their studies in order to make them more accessible to the future labour market. That is what this is all about, as is the intention, that we ensure it and that they have the opportunity to finish their studies. And I am sure there is still a chance to specify where the whole end of the flood will come from, so that it is better to have its own job opportunity after this crisis. Very good work for the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u118	Mr President! Thank you for those contributions. It is good that the committee has already taken this up, because it is good to have these laws ready quickly before Christmas. Mr Lehto raised the issue of monitoring and impact assessments and these, and it was supported here. Yes, the government will monitor the impact of this pandemic on business and on the number of layoffs and, of course, how they will continue, and how these measures will then be dismantled and used. Indeed, this proposal now seeks to make it possible to study during lay-off periods and that the time that is, in a way, lost, because things are being learned at work all the time, can then be used to strengthen its own skills without losing unemployment benefit. Of course, the second point that has been raised here is the position of entrepreneurs that they do not have to stop their businesses in order to be safe, that is to say that they are now also entitled to continue to do so, to continue to receive unemployment benefit, which has been in place so far, now until the end of March. But this pandemic seems to be on the way, so there is still plenty to follow up on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u119	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SIVM 10/2020 vp. The content of the bill is now being decided. Statement by Mr Risikko, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u120	Mr President! Indeed, it is a government proposal to promote legislation and to amend the law on the financing of education and culture. “The presentation proposes to make provision for the promotion of the legislative In addition, amendments would be made to the provisions of the Act on the Financing of Education and Culture on the State Contribution of Performing Arts.’ And this has often been mentioned in our committee that this law has indeed been expected. ‘The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs notes that the purpose Performing art falling within the scope of the law is defined in a broad manner, which allows for wider support for performing art. The Committee also welcomes the proposal's objective of increasing the flexibility and transparency of the system of state aids." ‘In the reform, the basic principle of the In view of the allocation and fairness of state-owned financing, it is justified that the calculation of unit prices will continue to be based on actual operating costs incurred by art institutions and that the actual number of man-years of the same calendar year will be used as the distributor. In this case, the amount of the central government share will be in line with the cost level and the person-years for the volume of operations.’ “The committee considers that the government’s performance benefits the performers and more The reform will thus have a strengthening effect on the realisation of cultural rights.” ‘For thereasons for which the Board’s proposal is The committee supports the adoption of legislative proposals contained in the government proposal with observations and amendments.’ And a few more words to the end. This report is a long one, and indeed these changes have been made. ‘In the consultation with the committee’sexpert,the wide-ranging view presented that the proposed The Committee considers it important that the additional funding provided for in the budgetary plan should come to the benefit of the development of the entire performing arts sector, further strengthening cultural wealth and diversity." “The committee recognises some factors which may in the future cause changes Among other things, performing art developed further through virtual presentations, media art and various multi-art forms such as performance, performance art and stage poetry. In addition, it is important to take account of the potential of production platforms that renew the field of art.’ "In order to make the proposed legislation possible,the an entry into force provision is added to the draft law. A new entry into force provision is also needed 2. the draft law so that certain state grants granted under the theatre and orchestral law can be taken into account in the implementation of the proposed legislation in the same way as they would have been taken into account if the legislation were not amended. The committee also considers it necessary to make certain clarifications and corrections 2. the draft law. “ And then we have a separate 3. a draft law with its own new section. It is therefore all in more detail in the detailed explanatory statement of this report and in these articles of law. You should really get to know them. There is also one objection to this report, but everything has been done in a very good spirit. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u121	Mr President! State participation reform of performing art has been built for a long and hard time over the parliamentary term. I am grateful that we are now at this point. The reform is the responsibility of the Minister for Science and Culture, and Mr Puumala, Secretary of State, has led the preparatory working group. And good work has been done. The presentation has been prepared in broad consultation with the operators, as it should be. The present art is now being defined more broadly. In addition to theatre and orchestra activities, the reform will allow the state's participation to include circus and dance arts, choirs, operas and operats, for example. Over the years, young people, new generation authors have diversified our perception of performing art. The EUR 10 million additional funding provided for the reform will ensure that we can preserve traditions while enabling new sectors and operators to benefit from state participation. The proposal is not only a bow to recognised operators but also timely and adaptable. With the reform, a multi-annual financing plan will be drawn up for each actor in performing art. This will support the predictability of funding and the long-term sustainability of activities. One of the most important and well-supported objectives is to support the preservation and development of a regionally comprehensive network of cultural services. The provision of performing art creates vitality throughout Finland. We can all be proud of the quality and variety of performing art we have in different parts of Finland. President! Unfortunately, because of the corona restrictions, many of us find the opening left by art. For example, theatres have long had to work at half-lights, and unfortunately, here in Helsinki, too, there has been another situation where the doors have been closed again. With the restrictions brought by Korona, many of us have been without performing art. Its absence has reminded us of how much joy it brings and how much it increases quality of life. Art and culture have a strange power. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media also expresses its concern that the time of the epidemic has shown the vulnerability of cultural actors in terms of income formation and the conditions for professional activity. The crisis has made it difficult for cultural workers to make a living in an unprecedented way. As a result of performances, concerts and cancellations of various gigs, many in the cultural field have been left unworked. Other concerns have also arisen. Approximately half of the central government funding of performing arts has come from betting profit funds, and the potential permanent decline in gambling revenues weakens the regional availability of professional cultural services, which is a key criterion of the relevant central government participation system. The difficulties of local government finances also affect the ability of municipalities to finance actors in the arts and culture sector. The Committee on Culture therefore stresses that public funding in the field of culture must be secured in such a way that it is predictable, predictable and adequate. President! Indeed, the proposal has been carefully examined in committee. The intention of the Government proposal to extend the scope of the state participation system for performing art is very much to be welcomed. The proposal is therefore very necessary. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u122	Irade fru talman, Madam President! The government's proposal to promote performing art and change funding for education and culture must be welcomed and, as mentioned here, it has been expected quite a lot. The law is now helping to ensure equality between civilisation and, in part, languages. The position of Svenska Teatern in the Swedish-speaking theatre field is in many respects similar to that of the Finnish National Theatre. It is good that the Swedish-speaking theatre has now been considered to be a nationally significant theatre activity and that the activities of another national language are therefore also safeguarded.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u123	Madam President! In this proposal, too, it is now clear that these state subsidies will be increased again. This is done with debt money, at the same time as there are other things going on and the interest is going on. Now, again, more money is being put into theaters and orchestras, and the state shares are now being slightly modified, to some extent. I would like to give you an example of this: when these sections of the state are allocated to a certain extent and require that city theaters and city orchestras should have certain man-years and a certain number of employees there, then, with the debt money, the municipalities will have to keep expensive orchestras and theatres in place, that they will receive these sections of the state, which the state will retain and support with the debt money. In Lahti, too, millions of dollars were being raised in support of the theatre and the orchestra so that we could receive these state subsidies. In other words, the city takes a debt that we can keep a certain level, that we can obtain a certain amount of state funding. This is a terrible cycle where more money is being spent all the time, yet the number of visitors is not increasing. Then we have this increased central government share percentage for Svenska Teatern and Tampere Labour Theatre. This is not fair now, since other theatres and orchestras are that two theatres will then automatically get it raised. The draft law then requires that the operation of the operating unit should be professional and permanent. In practice it is — isn't it? — so that summer theatres will not receive these state aids through this way, once these requirements have been met and few summer theatres will remain operational even in the winter, they will always be put on hold for the time being. The draft law then proposes that the State contribution to the operating costs of the operating units is intended to promote the diversity of art and cultural diversity, i.e. the political direction of cultural objectives. Should those listeners not determine which direction and what kind of art is being made and what interests them, which, in turn, would bring those spectators and money to those theaters so that they would not need so much government support?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u124	Irade the Talman! I går hade samkommunstamman för SÖFUK, som upprättthåller Wasa Teater, sin stamma, och det var ganska dysstra tider: Ekonomin ser inte lovande ut. Vi har en nyrenoverad teater, man har kruvat bort reserve stol. Men det fanns en glädjande punkt när vår teaterchef redogjorde för läget på teatern, och det var just det lagförslag som vi diskuterar är nu och som finns till beslut. Det är ett bevis för att vi har en förankring på fältet för den oxen och dess innehåll. Det som också är glädjande — inte bara glädjande utan nödvändigt — är förstås att Svenska Teaterns roll befästs genom att den i printälls med de övriga nationalscenerna. Det är viktigt för hela Finland, för det TVåspråkiga Finland, och det är viktigt också för det svenska språket och den finlandssssven identiteten. Det är är någonting vi ska reserve över.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u125	Mr President! It is good that this so-called VOS law on the reform of the state participation system in performing art is now in the process of graduating from this Parliament. The old theatre and orchestra code has already lived and has long been in need of reform. The performing arts institutions are largely municipal or municipal-funded actors, and the state contribution ensures that art can be done even where the income from the public and the municipality's money are not enough otherwise. The intention of the Government proposal to extend the scope of the state participation system for performing art is very much to be welcomed. Performing art falling within the scope of the law is defined in a broad manner, which allows for wider support for performing art. I also welcome the proposal's objective of increasing the flexibility and transparency of the system of central government transfers. It is justified that the calculation of unit prices will continue to be based on actual operating costs resulting from the operation of art plants and that the actual number of person-years of the same calendar year will be used as the distributor. In this case, the amount of the central government share will respect the cost level and the person-years for the volume of operations. The reform will thus have a strengthening effect on the implementation of cultural rights. It cannot be overemphasized that additional funding is necessary for the renewal of performing art. The presentation is based on the work initiated by the Kuusisto Group in January 2018. In this context, I would like to warmly thank the excellent groundwork of the working group in the field of culture — it has really listened to the sound of the field in it. The legal scope of the law is extended to cover all forms of performing art. Many fields of art, such as choirs, have previously been excluded. When choirs have not previously been covered by the law, among other things, the opportunities for professional singers to work as singers in the choir, in the same way as in musical orchestras, have been very limited. This is one example of what this new VOS law will do. It is important that access to the system of state aids is not proposed to be limited to specific forms of performing art. This aims to promote the diversity of artistic and cultural services. The proposed legislation provides for the possibility of granting an increased central government share in part of the staff years of the operating unit. In such cases, resources may be allocated, inter alia, to tour or visit activities as well as to performance activities for children, linguistic minorities or special groups. In addition to the current State contribution, the increased central government share will replace discretionary state grants for the same activity. The implementation of the reform must ensure that the diverse provision of performing art is also secured from a regional perspective. We need to ensure that the various fields of art are secured on an equal footing. Attention should be paid, among other things, to the reduction in the unit price of orchestras and differentiation from the unit price of the theatre. The long-term trend has been that these unit prices differ from each other. The Government's proposal suggests that the operating unit could be approved for either an indefinite period of time or for a three-year period under the state participation scheme for performing art. This aims to provide sufficient support for both the long-term development of activities and the renewal of the sector. The proposed reform will increase flexibility in the current system of central government transfers. The existing legislation has allowed theatres and orchestras that have been granted State participation to have almost permanent status in order to obtain state participation funding. When the incumbents have not left the financial sphere, it has not been possible to take new players on account of the limited amount of money available. Mr President! The majority of the free-field entities applying for State participation, which do not receive State participation but receive funding from Taike, have also been engaged in professional and regular activities for years. The free-field operators operate with small financial resources. The starting point for free-field operators to meet the conditions laid down in the draft law is different from those which have developed their activities for a long time with a state contribution. Attention has been drawn to the fact that approximately half of the state funding of performing art has come from betting profit funds. I would therefore like to point out that the permanent decline in gambling revenues must not undermine the territorial availability of professional cultural services, which is a central criterion of the system of state participation in this area. The difficulties of local government finances also affect the ability of municipalities to finance actors in the arts and culture sector. Mr President! Public funding in the field of culture must be secured in such a way that it is predictable and adequate. It should be remembered that the cultural sector is a medium-sized and labour-intensive sector in Finland. In 2018, culture accounted for as much as 4.9 per cent of all employed persons and 135,000 persons worked in cultural occupations, or quite a large number. The indirect impact on the regional economy will increase the employment impact of the cultural sector. Investing in culture has not only an economic impact but also an impact on the well-being of people. The GDP share of culture is as high as 3.3 per cent. It is important to identify factors that could lead to future changes in the financing model of performing art. Among other things, performing art developed further through virtual presentations, media art and various multi-art forms such as performance, performance art and stage poetry. In addition, taking into account the potential of production platforms that renew the field of action of performing art is of enormous importance. And, Mr President, one last thing. The interest-rate crisis, as we know, has made it more difficult for cultural workers to make a living in an unprecedented way. Due to performances, concerts and cancellations of various gigs, many in the cultural sector have become unemployed. In particular, operators in the free field receive their income from a number of sources, from which copyright compensation is an important issue. However, the date of payment of the copyright compensation may be long after the work entitled to the compensation has been completed. In the case of the unemployed, the situation is particularly difficult. Copyright compensation reduces earnings-related daily allowance in the same way as wages earned during unemployment, although copyright compensation is not even taken into account when the amount of daily allowance is raised. It is very important that this is corrected as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u126	Mr President! I am very pleased that this law has progressed. When this was a referral debate, I already spoke about the importance of culture in general, a little about the history of this law. That is where Mr Eloranta well described this whole. I'm not spending any more time on this. I came here to make this very brief speech just because I was very shocked, President, very shocked when today I noticed that the Finns of Peru have protested about this. I found it absolutely appalling when I listened very much to what the Finns have just said and it said that it is so wrong to support theatres, for example. Yes, I claim that at least in Pirkanmaa, Tampere, many supporters of basic Finns really like to go to the theatre, likes to visit the Work People's Theatre. I cannot see at all that in these sad times it is not worth supporting culture. What is characteristic of these theatres, orchestras, museums, which is covered by this legislation, is the form of cultural support that is specifically directed at all areas of Finland. This is also very important in regional policy. For example, it has been calculated in Pirkanmaa that cultural festivals brought good 250 million to the regional economy, and that is not a small sum. Cultural events increase employment — a very important theme today — and I would not have believed that the Finns of Finland would go into this. I was particularly surprised, I was very disappointed that they were also against the Tampere Workers' Theatre, its funding. It's historyless. Worker Theatre has had this special financial position for a long time, and now the Finns of Finland would be giving it up, while, on the contrary, the history of this legislation includes a working group phase where it was suggested that this support for the Theatre of Workers would be abandoned, but then the Minister of Culture Terho fought for this not to happen, with the support of the representatives of all of us parties. Here was the Pirkanmaa business life, everyone wanted to see the importance of the Worker Theatre and to secure this particular level of funding. This is of great importance, and I do not think that the representatives of the Finns of Finland in Pirkanmaa will be able to make a very easy effort to justify why Labour, the Tampere Workers' Theatre, could not give what is certain to be theirs. Thank you to the Labour Theatre, thank you to the theatres, thank you to the committee for your good and quick work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u127	Mr President! Mr Viitanen, for your information: The Finns have not said that there is no support for these. The Finns themselves criticise the fact that subsidies are being increased all the time, even though the economy is already in bad shape, and the Finns themselves object to steering from the direction of politicians the art that theatres should do when theatres should be able to decide for themselves. The Finns also criticise this fact that summer theatres cannot be included, and the Finns themselves criticise the fact that not all theatres are on the same line, but two receive twice as much support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u128	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, we can now adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u129	Mr President! I propose that one statement be adopted in the draft law, which reads as follows: ‘The Council of State shall require that a model of additional aid combined with aid be adopted by the Council of State. The additional aid would have been targeted at undertakings in sectors where, as a result of public law restrictions such as travel restrictions and assembly restrictions, the activity of the business is almost completely prevented and where turnover has fallen abnormally. These areas include, for example, the travel agency sector, the field of events and fair activities.’
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u130	Mr President! I support the statement made by Mr Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u131	Värderade Talman! Det handlar alltså om regeringens proposition till riksdage med förslag till lag om ändring av lagen om temporärt kostnadstöd för företag.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u132	The 21st item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u133	Madam President! I have waited a long time for this day and for this bill to be opened. It is clear that the exceptional circumstances of the spring have also confused the situation with regard to legislative work, but it must also be borne in mind that the problems have not disappeared in this period, rather, only worsened, and that is why it is very important that we finally get to work on this bill. Last week we spent a child's rights week. The timing was a coincidence, but I think it is quite a fitting and symbolic coincidence, because the main theme of this initiative is precisely to safeguard and improve the rights of the child. Unfortunately, we live in a world in which shockingly many children are deprived of the right to safe childhood. Physical and mental violence is always wrong, but it is particularly repulsive when it is directed by an adult at a defenseless child. There are incomprehensible amounts of sexual violence against children on the Internet. In the vernacular and newspapers often talk about child pornography, but today experts and authorities prefer the term CAM, which comes from the English language Child Abuse Material. It is important to make this distinction in order to better understand what is going on. It's not pornography. It's a crime. The development of terminology and technology has opened up new channels and opportunities for criminals at a time when our own legislation has not kept up with it. The aim of this bill is now to bring CAM-related legislation more closely into line with the world around us and this time. The initiative contains four substantive changes to the section. The first is to add a new paragraph to Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code, which provides for the possession, in addition to dissemination, of pictures of brutal violence to be punishable. In addition to child abuse material, huge amounts of violence involving child abuse and torture are currently spreading on the Internet. Under current legislation, possession of such material is not a crime. In Finland, this material is allowed to be downloaded and watched, but it will only become punishable if it is distributed further. According to the police, the number of child abuse descriptions is increasing, and home searches are used to find videos of brutal violence, even baby killing videos. In these situations, where there is no evidence of dissemination, the possession of such raw violence material will not become a sanction under the current legislation. However, the possession and download of such material shows an exceptional idealization of violence in the author, and the material can also be used for sexual purposes. As a result, criminalising the possession of raw violent material is justified. The second amendment includes the fact that Chapter 17, Section 18 of the Criminal Code: , so that the dissemination of one file would also be a crime, along with the dissemination of more than one file. For some reason, the distribution of an individual file is not punishable under current legislation. Today, however, one file can cover dozens of hours of video material, hundreds of images. In addition, each image or video is stored in situations where the child is actually being exploited and therefore the possession of an individual file, an individual image and an individual video should also be punishable. The protection of the physical integrity and rights of the child by means of legislative action shall be considered to be a legitimate measure. As a third amendment, it is proposed that the maximum penalty for Article 19 of Chapter 17 of the Penal Code is increased to two years and the title of the offence is changed to ‘the possession of material describing the sexual exploitation of children’. The new title would give a more accurate picture of what this crime is all about, and the increase in the penalty rate would also take better account of the fact that there are children in all pictures and records who have all been abused or even raped. As far as possession is concerned, it should also be noted that demand causes material to be made, and this is also in favour of a higher penalty scale for possession. The increase in the maximum penalty would also indicate that society takes the production and possession of CAM material very seriously. As a fourth amendment, we would add a new Article 19a to Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code, which provides for the criminal offence of possession of material describing the sexual exploitation of a child, which is not currently the case in our law. As technology develops, the storage capacity of equipment and the quantities of material seized by police in search of their homes have increased exponentially. In one case, there may be tens of thousands of pictures and hundreds of hours of videos. Many rings operating in dark networks also require access in return for images or videos, i.e. they serve as exchange tools. There is a huge market for CAM material, the annual value of which is calculated in billions of euros. In international comparison, Finnish legislation lags heavily behind many other countries, due to the fact that Finnish legislation on CAM material dates back to before social media. The amount of material held in the possession may be incomprehensible, but the penalties imposed are in most cases fined. Gradualisation of the label into two categories of grossness would allow for a more accurate comparison of the penalty scales according to the severity of the offences. Mr President! With regard to the CAM material, we must not forget that in all cases we are dealing with real children, children whom we should protect and who should not have the slightest idea of such evil or even the existence of such a thing, let alone of being targeted. I have tremendous respect for the authorities who have to deal with this type of crime. It's an incredibly hard job, but it's worth more than that. For that reason, too, I want to do anything I can and help them in their work so that they have all the tools they need in terms of legislation. With these four proposed pieces of law, the world will not yet be finished, but the direction is the right one, and we must move towards it. Finally, I would also like to thank Mr S.H.I.E.L.D., with whom we prepared this initiative for a long time, and also to thank all of you more than 100 signatories. Such broad support shows how important this issue is and that the safety of children is not a government-opposition issue, but a common one for all of us. Thank you all for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u134	Madam President! The bill before us is extremely important and I would like to thank Mr Keto-Huov, who has tabled the initiative, and all those who have signed this bill. I would also like to thank the representative for the very halting and emotional introduction. In front of this bill, we speak in a cruel, gross way of violating the rights of the child, completely unacceptable and reprehensible crimes, of those who break their minds or at their worst take their lives. I have worked with children who have been victims of such crimes, and I am glad that there is a clear spirit in this Chamber that we are doing everything we can under the law to prevent these crimes and to catch the perpetrators. As long as we do not succeed in securing zero tolerance, we must also ensure that the victims receive all the help. Unfortunately, the law does not fully guarantee that shocking crimes do not occur, but it has an important role to play in the seriousness of what our society is doing. In the final analysis, our laws set a limit to what we consider to be unacceptable and what we do not. We should also ensure that these laws are up to date, that they identify new and changing forms of crime. As stated in the bill, our law is incomplete and outdated, as regards, for example, the possession and distribution of children's rights on the Internet. It cannot be that in Finland you can download and view raw material containing violence against children without consequences. The possession of any image or video material that violates the child's physical self-determination should always be punishable, including in the case of individual cases, as regards the dissemination of the material. I think it is quite clear that this deficiency in our law must be corrected and imposed, alongside the spread of brutal violence, on possession as a criminal offence. I also fully agree with Mr Keto-Huovinen, who has taken the initiative, that the penalty scale for the possession of child sexual abuse material should be reviewed. It was extremely halting to read in this explanatory statement of the bill how it can now be that, due to the laxity of the penalty scale, the offence may even become obsolete before it can be investigated and the charges brought. Furthermore, the increase in the maximum penalty would again be a strong signal of the seriousness and seriousness of the crimes committed against the rights of the child. I therefore support this bill with all its points and I hope that the government will correct these glaring problems in our criminal law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u135	Madam President! CAM material — that combination of letters comes from the English language ‘ChildAbuseMaterial’ — has been better known in child pornography in Finland. Criminal investigation related to CAM material is undoubtedly the most challenging police work, which may be, in addition to sexual exploitation of children. When the police get a trace of child pornography or CAM material, it always means that at least thousands of pictures and videos can be found in the possession of one suspect. The archives of tens of thousands of images are very common cases. There are countless and extensive international CAM barriers on the anonymous Internet networks, which are very often used as an admission fee for this particular CAM material. The admission fee may include, for example, 10,000 pictures. Material is also exchanged and can also be used for shopping. The CAM material is therefore a very valuable currency in the industry. A very small number of police officers are investigating CAM material in Finland, and there are a lot of cases to investigate. In addition to this, the cases are very slow to investigate. All material must be screened by image, video by video, because in Finland the material must be classified according to its grossness. For example, if you find 80,000 pictures and 3500 videos in the possession of one suspect, as recently happened in North Karelia, everyone can carefully calculate how long it takes to classify the material of that one case alone — and on top of it all the other investigative work and the day of their interrogation. The CAM material is thus divided into three categories of grossness: Class 1 — material where the child or children pose or the image is specified in the child's genitals; Class 2 — material where the child is subjected to sexual activity; Class 3 — material in which the child is raped, forced, threatened, bound or involved in an animal. In particular, third-class material is so violent and ruthless that it has damaging effects on police officers investigating these crimes. This material disabled researchers, and I have witnessed this in my own work as a police officer many times. But what damage do they cause to children in these materials? At the very least, destructive. In Sweden, the classification has been abolished and there the number of convictions has clearly increased. So we are talking about a very serious, deeply perverted area of crime. It is completely incomprehensible that these crimes are in practice fined and therefore the limitation periods are short. It poses its own challenges to criminal investigations, and as a result, cases may even become obsolete before they have been investigated. This should not happen in a rule of law such as Finland. This bill seeks to increase the limitation period to two years, which would be a clear improvement on the current situation. It is also incomprehensible that the distribution of one picture or video is not punishable. Not even if it's the third grade, the most outrageous, the one where the child is raped, forced, threatened, tied up, etcetera. This is an insufferable situation. One video can be a day long, and it can contain any kind of outrageous material, and it is not a crime to distribute it. The law is from before the current form of the Internet, let alone social media, and this is another instance that clearly demonstrates this situation and the ageing of the law. Furthermore, the possession of raw, sadistic violence materials is not punishable by the abuse and torture of children. These materials are very materially related to CAM materials. Very often, there is violent material inside the materials seized, and at the end of the investigation, the police must hand them back to the suspect, no matter how much, no matter how outrageous. It's okay to ask who thinks this is the right thing to do. This also needs to be changed, not only because of the content, but also because when the police find such violent material, it would also be used to access the CAM material rings. They go hand in hand. In other words, the risk of getting caught in this sense would also increase substantially. I say that every one of us has a keen desire that as many factors as possible be caught in this area of crime and that as much material as possible be removed from these criminal ways. It is also important, as a society, to show how this phenomenon is viewed and to send out a clear message. At the same time, stricter criminal sanctions would at least serve as some kind of deterrent in this matter. Mr President! We have taken this initiative together with Mrs Pihla Keto-Hovinen, and I would like to thank her for her excellent cooperation with this initiative. The professional experience and perception of the police and the prosecutor have met in a productive way in this important matter. I would also like to thank all the more than 100 Members of Parliament who have signed this initiative and thus shown the strong will of this House for this change. In particular, I would like to thank the experts whom we have heard when we took this initiative and who have made their own invaluable contribution to this work. Last but not least, I would like to thank the older detective, Mikko Veijalainen, for the discussion with whom this bill has been initiated. Now we'll see if the world can be changed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u136	Mr President! The bill now under discussion is extremely important. The abuse of a child and this mere conversation will certainly bring us all into power mentally and physically badly. At least I'm having a terrible time. I believe that any action that protects our children from the most incomprehensible horrors should be looked at. As has already been pointed out in the presentation text and here, during the expert speeches by Mr Keto-Huovinen and Mr S.H.E.L.H.E.L.D., huge amounts of child abuse materials are spreading on the Internet, as well as materials that involve serious violence against children. Times have indeed changed, and so must laws change. I am not even able to really talk about this whole issue any more, I just want to support this bill with my speech and I hope for a very quick reading. Let's hope the world gets a little better through this bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u137	Madam President! I would also like to thank the authors of the initiative and all the signatories — I myself signed this very important initiative. Taking advantage of children is a real pain in the ass. It often destroys the life of that child, it becomes physical and mental injuries, and, apart from physical injuries, it also has mental violence to realize that there is still footage going on from it, which goes around almost the rest of his life in the secrets of the Internet, it can never be removed. This has been so well discussed here, and I do not comment much on this except on that section 17a entitled ‘Administration of violence’. There is also this violence at school, where brutal violence is used when one is abused, and there others describe it. Is it not the case, then, that possession of a picture would be punishable, even though it is young, by whom? Similar brutal violence is also used in bullying at school, and those materials are then distributed and held in possession of where beaten friends have been beaten. This bill is a very good one, and I would like to add one more comment to it: that this too should become a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u138	Madam President! Thank you to S.H.I.E.L.D. and Keto-Huovinen. It might be said that this is such a stopping experience when you have not personally been aware of the evil that is happening around you, as concretely as you have described it today, and that is already important. It's grotesque, disgusting, something completely incomprehensible. As has already been said here, laws must remain in time when we are reforming legislation so slowly that we have it from the previous century. In particular, with regard to everything that relates to material moving on the Internet, it should be possible in Parliament to see whether we need to reform our legislation. It would now be time, especially with this bill, to start looking closely at the whole of our legislation, which is there in the so-called social media, the connection of material on the Internet to our various laws, and to update those laws. Thank you again to the authors of the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u139	Mr President! Thank you to colleagues Keto-Huovinen and S.H.I.E.L.L.D. for this particularly important bill, which is indeed intended to make the possession of images of brutal violence, along with dissemination, punishable and, among other things, the possession of material describing the sexual exploitation of the child and all the other punishments involved. What is really important is that this matter has been written and told in this Chamber today. It is hard to imagine, and still completely incomprehensible, what is happening at the moment, when, even with the development of information and technology, the distribution of various really gross imagery has also become a means of earning some. As the explanatory memorandum to the bill has well pointed out, huge amounts of child abuse material are spreading on the Internet, including material that is subject to serious violence against children, and this brutality has indeed increased in recent years. As Mr Keto-Huovinen pointed out, last year there were almost a hundred, 89 such crimes of spreading a child's image of gross sexual orientation, which is more than the last three years combined. These legislative changes are indeed justified and necessary, and it is important that this bill has the support of more than one hundred colleagues, so I also hope that this will move forward rapidly this period. It was also seen during the last period that, with the support of 100 colleagues, certain things are then actually treated as government proposals and can bring about a change. In addition to these legislative changes, it is equally important to ensure support and assistance for victims and, in particular, long-term support. Last season I pointed out that when there are crimes involving a child, we should be able to say a certain type of investigation guarantee, that is to say that crimes against children should also be able to be resolved within at least six months, and this is as important as these legal changes and support for victims. Thank you for this good cooperation and, with this bill, for raising an important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u140	Mr President! First of all, thank you to Mr Keto-Huovinen and Mr S.H.I.E.L.D., the authors of the bill. I must say personally that I have not heard such a brutal text in this Chamber as the representative. S.H.I.E.L.D. just described what could happen to these children, and I don't know if the President has heard such speeches here during his long career. But if there had been 200 representatives here today to listen to this bill, I would argue that it would go into preparation today — it was such a brutal text that these children have been doing this over the years. The laws must live in time, and I hope that this bill will indeed move forward. I don't feel good physically. Excuse me, Speaker.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u141	Mr President! I would also like to refer to Mrs Wallinheim for this House to call on the Committee on Legal Affairs to take this bill, which has the support of one hundred colleagues, and which is therefore comparable to the government's proposal, to the most prompt consideration possible — including the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr Keto-Huovinen and Mr Kilpi, who are in fact the first signatories and draftsmen of this bill — and, in particular, to the idea that we are sure to be aware from the right and left of the Chamber that our legislation in this area is not even close to the 2020s where it should be. It's barely in the 21st century. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u142	The 22nd item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u143	Madam President! The purpose of this law is to ensure the status of employees working in Finland, but also a level playing field for Finnish and Finnish entrepreneurs who comply with laws and agreements. Sub-wage means that companies do not comply with a general binding collective agreement or a normal binding collective agreement. We have too many situations where, in many cases, non-Finnish workers face their own ignorance that they are not at the same wage level as a Finnish or organised worker at the workplace. Regrettably, employers who engage in such activities are so-called drawer entrepreneurs who, through their reluctant practices, seek a competitive advantage for those entrepreneurs who genuinely operate, paying taxes and insurance contributions and, in this respect, shoulder their responsibilities for society, both in terms of tax revenues and in terms of human production. It is particularly important that we be able to discuss this issue. Some may think that the contractual society is too lacking in the freedom of the entrepreneur, but I would like to point out that the second purpose here is to ensure that the honest Finnish entrepreneur is able to compete in the competition that is taking place in this country. Perhaps so briefly on this point, and let us hope that this will continue. There are no hundreds of names here, since the running leg could not go around this matter any further. We do have measures in this government to reduce the illegal behaviour of penalties and administrative charges, but I would say that this criminalisation of underpaid wages is, however, the instrument that can genuinely tackle the misalignment we unfortunately have too much in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u144	Madam President! I think Congressman Myllykoski hit on the lactic acid when he couldn't make it, could run to me when I signed this. Yes, he's missed this. This is a really good bill. I would have signed this. After all, this year, a government proposal was made to Parliament to change the Posting of Workers Act, which sought to promote equal treatment of posted workers in terms of working conditions with national workers and equal competition for companies. In other words, the legislation is that if workers are sent here from elsewhere, the same working conditions must apply, the same remuneration and so on. This should be monitored and punished. Every time there are sanctions, it makes you comply with more law. There are always people who want to circumvent the law if there are no sanctions. Monitoring is, of course, always difficult, but more resources should be available. There will probably now be more resources to study these, to get all the companies on an equal footing, then there will be no one trampling on wages. This is particularly common in buildings, and in the same way there are restaurants where a lot of underpaid people are used and prices are then dumped, and the neighbour falls when he is unable to compete at prices.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u145	The 23rd item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u146	Mr President! This bill moves from the criminal law world to the restaurant world, which proposes a reduction in VAT on alcoholic beverages from 24% to 14%, i.e. the same as in restaurants. According to an estimate made by the Natural Resources Agency in 2018, this change would mean an increase of around EUR 127 million in the restaurant sector, i.e. in the demand for restaurant services and EUR 300 million in the national economy as a whole on an annual basis. Mr President! This bill was originally signed in May and was supposed to be in force until the end of 2020, but the congestion of the bill and this corona situation have caused us to be delayed in dealing with this issue. This means, for my part, that I am going to take a new, similar initiative this week, and it can be signed by all Members of Parliament electronically and by the central assembly until Friday evening. There are about 10,000 restaurants in Finland, and if we look at the situation last spring, half of them were already in trouble because all the restaurants were virtually closed on April 4 and 31 May. between time and time. In the summer — Government proposal No 67 — the Parliament decided to support the restaurant sector, amounting to approximately EUR 170 million. Even then, the industry's representative, MaRa, felt that this amount was totally inadequate, would have required at least EUR 350 million. In other words, it was already known at the time that it was totally inadequate support, and now that we look at the way in which the corona epidemic has resumed in this country, we know that the restaurant industry has been a prisoner of very uncertain conditions and has had to adjust its activities constantly and in very uncertain circumstances. It has not always been known what the next week will be and what the situation for the rest of the year will be. Mr President! Finland currently has the EU's highest VAT rate on alcoholic beverages, and this is particularly evident when it comes to beer. It is our restaurant culture that beer is the most important alcoholic drink. Mr President! At the moment, 90 per cent of drinking alcohol in Finland is at home, and we have considered at the meeting that although the aim of this bill is to be temporary, in the longer term this change would be good because it would guide alcohol consumption to controlled premises in public places. Mr President! Quite often, when we talk about a change in the level of VAT, we have an obstacle to the European Union and its provisions, but here, in this case, it is not, for the EU already allowed this change in 2009 — this change has just not been implemented. Mr President! This change should be supported for a number of reasons: Firstly, it would increase employment in the sector. Secondly, it would secure tax revenues specifically for Finland in the long term, because quite a lot of our drinking alcohol is also imported from elsewhere — mainly Estonia and the Baltic countries — here to Finland and this would direct tax revenues more to Finland. And thirdly, it would improve the competitiveness of the domestic tourism and restaurant sector in relation to tourism abroad. Now, if ever, this would be a very important hand-out for this industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u147	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Kauma for a good legislative initiative and for the fact that the bill will certainly be renewed now, because it will very soon expire. Mr Kauma spoke well about the effects this VAT reduction would have: jobs, it would have a lot of dynamic effects, it would shift alcohol consumption back to restaurants. These are certainly all the measures supported by the whole hall, so that you do not drink alcohol at home, but in restaurants in particular. I am absolutely sure that at some point, however, this will pass in Finland. Is it now Mr Kauman's bill or this government or the next one, but it is clear that at some point we will be reducing this, even because we now know that in this very service-intensive sector, where around 100,000 people are working, a lot of jobs will be lost in the future. This is precisely what would be extremely important now for this sector, which is certainly suffering most from the interest rate at the moment. So, Mr President, I support Mr Kauman's good bill, and I will also support the following.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u148	Mr President! In the restaurant sector, on average, the level of turnover has declined very significantly from the pre-crisis level, and I think that Mr Kauman's legislative initiative is quite apt to tackle this problem. Korona has made the operating environment of restaurants much more difficult, and it is now a question of helping them by facilitating competition, facilitating business or not. On the other hand, this whole is about developing a completely new European alcohol culture in Finland, but basically, however, I see that this bill is based on people having jobs, on restaurants being able to keep their employees and on them being able to hire more in the future. As Mrs Wallinheimo has said here, this is likely to change — so why not take advantage of the weak situation caused by the corona crisis and turn the trend towards people being able to enjoy alcohol responsibly in a restaurant without being unduly expensive. I support Mr Kauma's bill. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u149	Mr President! Now, if ever it's time to talk about this, too. I agree when Mrs Wallinheim said that at some point we here have this and we are making decisions. It must be borne in mind that the calculation of VAT on alcohol in restaurants also has the particularly positive non-economic effects — of course, it can always be asked in whose mind and in what respect. But I would see that it is terribly frustrating to squint at home — because alcohol in restaurants is so expensive — and I believe that this behaviour would change so that we would go to the restaurant early in the evening, and not until after we have had those Estonian booze taken to the house, we will go to the bar at around 11:00 and after. I would believe that the musician Mikko Alatalo, who left the job of a congressman, would be pleased if he could go to the restaurant at 10 o’clock — let alone that at least 12 o’clock there is a first gig. So it's possible to promote that cultural activity and bring... However, I have a slightly different view from Mr Kauma, who has made a good initiative, who said that public places are controlled or that we drink more at home. I would like to describe it in such a way that from home and from public places to services, to good services that employ restaurant workers. I have left out the controlled conditions at least about three years ago, but will enjoy the good services that a restaurant entrepreneur and his staff can provide to everyone. Now that Mr Kauma renews this bill, I have a pen ready to sign it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u150	Mr President! I warmly support Mr Kauman's commendable bill. Restaurants have become a sufferer even in an unreasonable way in the yoke of corona. Many entrepreneurs are losing their lives, and even bankruptcies will not be avoided. It's an intolerable human tragedy. Yes, we have to turn all the stones and stumps to support entrepreneurship and business, because they are the very ones out of you that are the curse of the corona. I too am ready to be among the first to wait for this initiative to be renewed here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u151	Mr President! Mr Kauma's bill on the temporary amendment of value added tax in relation to alcoholic beverages consumed in connection with restaurant and catering services is very much to be welcomed and, in particular, it must be supported in this period of time. It would also be such an employment act, an act of domesticism, an act of Finland, in the sense that the restaurant and hotel sector, as well as tourism, have been in considerable distress. It is regrettable that during the corona period, however, the number of drinks purchased from Alko has increased and, in a way, the focus of consumption has been shifted to homes and to non-supervised premises. However, we have had a European drinking and restaurant culture for a long time, so that we would also drink with food. Here too, Mr President, it is good, as Mr Kauma has pointed out, that VAT is also regulated in a certain way at EU level: there cannot be very many VAT rates, but in this respect the directive already allows a reduced rate for alcohol consumption. While tax revenue often takes the view that raising that stock and raising that tax share would bring the highest amount of tax to the State’s treasury, there are also taxes in which, in fact, the reduction in its tax rate or VAT rate will guide people’s behaviour and consumption, so that even if the total amount of tax is temporarily reduced, in the longer term all the other benefits and then the benefits of tax revenues would also be positive to the State’s treasury, because on the expenditure side too this would certainly be visible. It was easy to support this, it was easy to sign, and hopefully, on the wider front too, this would now proceed if a new bill came along. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u152	Mr President! I myself believe that sooner or later this change in the law will take place in Finland. It was nice to hear these speeches that pens have already been sharpened here for the next bill. Just a few more chapters to clarify the content of this legislative initiative. In other words, the tourist and restaurant lobby has estimated that this change in the law would create some 2,400 more jobs. Of course, this has been assessed under normal conditions and now we are living in interest rate conditions, but in any case we are talking about thousands of jobs. And, Mr President, another chapter here: when I mentioned this alcohol imported from abroad, it is true that imports of passengers from abroad are almost twice as large as those from a restaurant, i.e. very large. It would be good if we could get the alcohol bought in Finland to the same level and then get the tax revenue here in Finland. It would have such a positive effect. Mr President! This really includes restaurants, cafés, bars and nightclubs, i.e. the whole repertoire that we have here in the peninsula of Finland, all kinds of restaurants with the right to drink. Mr Myllykoski then said that perhaps we should talk already about the fact that not so much controlled conditions would be the point here, so that under controlled conditions drinking would take place, but in general this alcohol culture and that we should go to this European alcohol culture. Well, I agree with you. When you look at the behavior of our younger generation, they are probably already on a much smarter level than the generation of me and Mrs Myllykoski may have ever been. In that sense, I am confident that these changes will also take place right there on the side of consumer behaviour. Mr President! I am pleased that this bill has been well received and I hope that it will also receive it in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u153	The 24th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u154	Mr President! It is up to us all to combat climate change. As political decision-makers, it is our responsibility, through legislation and the budget, to create incentives for climate-friendly, economic and other activities, whether it be restrictions, tax increases on fossil fuels or support for clean technology. Our decisions create the frameworks and instruments that affect the consumption patterns and behaviour of companies and individuals, including investments. Individuals can also play their part if they have the ability and the opportunity to do so. Consumption habits and the choice of modes of mobility and housing are all part of climate decisions. The legislative initiative now under discussion relates to how easy and clear we make our legislation so that people, businesses and foundations, for example, can take responsibility for slowing down climate change. Certain actors, such as Finnair and the Compensate Foundation, have actively sought to create opportunities for individual people and companies to reduce the carbon footprint by offering carbon emission compensation opportunities. However, the police’s lottery administration has interpreted such activities as an unpaid collection of funds under the fundraising law. Mr President! The climate crisis is not waiting; we urgently need emission reduction and compensation measures in all sectors. It is even a little absurd that current legislation does not allow, for example, the activities of the Compensate Foundation without a fund-raising permit, even though the Foundation buys emission reduction units, i.e. carbon sequestration, with the sum paid by the consumer. The interpretation of the lottery administration has gathered a lot of criticism as expected. The bill even states that the interpretation of the lottery administration threatens to put on ice the whole area of emissions compensation in Finland, because obtaining a fund-raising permit would require a lot of new bureaucracy for operators. We simply cannot afford to end up like this. Because of unclear legal interpretations, it is essential that we clarify the law so that the rules of the game are easily understood and supported by everyone — businesses, foundations and individuals alike. It is great that the government, under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, has taken action and, at the beginning of November, submitted a proposal for a consultation to limit voluntary emission compensations outside the fund-raising law. In the future, therefore, voluntary emission compensation activities would not require a fund-raising permit. Therefore, the Government’s proposal for a base is already in line with the requirements of the bill. Unfortunately for a long time, however, this response has been taken by such a fresh representative. Almost two years ago, when the law comes in, the interpretation of the law and the putting on ice of this compensation action. Thank you, therefore, to the authors of the legislative initiative, in order to bring forward the good and necessary debate together. Now I'm hoping for a quick but high-quality piece of law-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u155	Mr President! Indeed, it was easy to support this amendment of Article 1 of the fund-raising law. During the last term in the Committee on Administrative Affairs, where I was now Vice-President and last year as a member, we did an overall reform of the Big Lottery Act, and it seems perhaps incredible now to think that the things we are talking about were not thought of three years ago or four years ago when this big Lottery Act was introduced and discussed in committee. Indeed, such various compensations and models for emission compensation are certainly needed in this decade and would have been forthcoming. In that sense, it is regrettable that this interpretation has led to the situation that the various public declarations of intent have now had to be withdrawn, both this Kappenäätiö Foundation and also Finnair, because they have stated that they do not want to move forward until the situation is clear and clear with regard to this lottery legislation and also with regard to the Police Government. Indeed, the Ministry of the Interior set up a legislative project for this in the spring and, on the other hand, it can be thought that this bill has also had its place and that the Ministry of the Interior has also received the message that there is support for this in the case of parliamentarians, and we have actively raised this issue. It is good that the Ministry of the Interior has now acted and that a legislative project has been submitted to the consultation, and in so far as the proposal from the Government of the Ministry of the Interior comes to the Administrative Committee at the time, the Administrative Committee will also be able to assess this and combine this bill with the examination of the Government's proposal. This is an important issue, and it is precisely the legislation that must create the framework and the rules of the game that companies will then be able to operate. Mr President! I say to the end that during the last term, when I was chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Sustainable Development, we introduced different models, how Parliament can take responsibility, when it is essential to move to and fly to different countries — although we have not heard from the corona period, but in a normal situation. At the time, the committee also suggested that Parliament could also participate in these air compensations, but for that, too, this has now been frozen. Of course, with blue and white wings to the world and within the kingdom we fly a lot, but this also requires a lot of work and rules on emission compensation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u156	Mr President! Just a few more points about these compensations. It must be ensured that they only sell services and projects that genuinely also generate climate benefits. Currently, the market, i.e. international markets, offers a wide range of compensation services. These compensation markets must also be regulated. The Ministry of the Environment has launched studies on the current state of regulation of voluntary emission compensations and these development needs, with the aim of ensuring that compensation projects have a genuinely positive climate impact. The compensation providers have also called for clarification of these rules of the game. I agree with Mrs Talvitie that the solution to Parliament's air compensation should be brought to a decision as soon as possible. Now, although not much flying, would be a good time to resolve this issue as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u157	Mr President! This is an important part of the fight against climate change. The most important thing, of course, is to achieve emission reductions. We need more carbon sinks, but our legislation must also allow compensation measures and, in particular, we should promote rather than try to constrain, where Finland would have a huge amount to offer. This has highlighted options that have not yet been made available to the extent that would be desirable. But it has been great to hear that the government is also contributing to this, and I believe that this is an example of a theme that we can work together across party boundaries to promote. Climate change is a common challenge for all of us and we need all the means to achieve this goal in carbon-neutral Finland. It simply does not make sense or sustainable for legislation or regulation to prevent the use of compensation models or products, so the good news is that things are moving forward, and certainly this public debate has contributed to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u158	The 25th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u159	Mr President! Indeed, the discussion is about the permanent abolition of the fairway fee for my bill, i.e. the abolition of the law on fairway charges. I took the initiative six months ago, but, as I am sure each of us has noticed, the problems and challenges of the export industry are far from over, but they may even be very much ahead of us. I have already spoken on this bill several times in Parliament in connection with the various paragraphs, so this time I shall leave my own arguments a little less. I believe that these arguments have shown that my thinking is supported by the representatives of the opposition parties, and I am extremely grateful for that, but instead of giving you my own arguments, I am going to read you a little tedious extracts from the expert opinion on the law in question, which the government itself was still preparing in the spring but then withdrawing. Here we go. ‘The modern-day fairway chargingsystemincludes structures that undermine Finland’s “ ‘The maritime corridors and theirmaintenance are basic Stateinfraa, and their costs are Fairway charges are an additional cost for companies engaged in foreign trade, which they pay in connection with sea freight.’ ‘The ticket payment mustremovecompetitiveness and increase the cost ‘The abolition of cross-border payments has a broad The levy will increase the logistics costs of companies and the costs of maritime transport will have a strong impact on the logistics competitiveness of companies operating in different industries.’ “A fully-fledged solution of Finland’s own, which unfortunately reduces the costs of Due to bus fares, the Finnish route is currently not competitive in transit. The abolition of the fairway charge would increase the volume of transit traffic and thus compensate for the impact of the removal of fairway charges on government revenues.’ ‘Non-nationally set levies and ‘The abolition of the ‘The abolition of the levy would also have positive effects on the The proposal is important ‘to ensure the continuity of foreign trade in Finland’. The proposal ‘maintains the viability and security of These are expert opinions for the bill in question. The experts were more than 90% behind the bill. So we are talking about the future of Finland, about how we ensure one of our well-being in difficult conditions, but also about strengthening it. So my bill on the abolition of the fairway fee will increase jobs, increase well-being and build a competitive Finland. Simply put, it means that many entrepreneurs and employees can afford to buy ham at the Christmas table. I would like to thank all the signatories and those who have been a little late in the process and, as I mentioned at the outset, I believe that all the opposition parties are more or less. I would also like to thank my own party, which has strongly supported me with this bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u160	Thank you for the introduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u161	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kausto, for the bill, which I also signed. As Mrs Kausto has pointed out here and we all know, Finland is a very export-driven country and we are, however, a certain kind of island here, so many things, goods and logistics chains come to us either by sea or by air. It is our strength, but it is also a weakness in a certain way, and in that sense, for example, if we look at this competitive environment in the Baltic Sea, it would be important that Finland's competitiveness should be at the same level as other countries in the Baltic Sea and so we could do something about it ourselves. If we reduce or eliminate the fairway charge, so will our own competitiveness. Such different national contributions and taxes also play a major role in the location of companies and, as a result, in the Finnish economy. Last but not least, it is about jobs and the export euro, and it is therefore important to bring them into line with other countries in the Baltic Sea. Of course, it is thought that the fairway fee will be paid by someone in connection with the freight, and that someone will always be a company. And that's where they're going to figure out how to take those logistics chains and what they're going through. Therefore, in a certain way, the abolition of fairway charges may also be an environmental act in certain situations. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-24-ps-150.u162	The 31st item is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 25 November 2020. The Council of Presidents proposes that the procedure for the sole reading of the seventh draft amending budget be as follows: The debate will begin at the plenary session on Wednesday, 25 November 1920, at 2 p.m., with a rapid part-session, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. The amendments must be submitted to the central office by 10 a.m. on Wednesday 25 November 2020. The relevant votes will take place on Friday, 27 November 2020. To the extent that no amendments to the seventh amending budget have been proposed, it is deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
