ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u1	At this point, before we enter into this debate on the state budget, I would like to say to the Members that there have been minor improvements in this area, as we have the opportunity to speak from this platform without masks. These small tables have been brought here on both sides, which have the opportunity to take off the mask and disinfect your hands and then, after the speech, put the mask on and disinfect your hands. In other words, we want to be able to take care of the speeches from the podium also in a health-safe way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the other committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the referral to the Committee on Finance, i.e. no later than 12 November 1920. The debate and discussion were suspended at the plenary session on 8 October 2020. In this context, discussion will also be allowed on the 4th to 19th day of the agenda. on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u3	Mr President! The Government proposes a total budget of approximately EUR 3.5 billion for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which corresponds to the level of the previous year. The Government will continue to make significant investments in improving the transport network, managing the road repair debt and public passenger transport. In addition to the budget, the fourth amending budget for 2020 already decided on a government proposal to launch a number of new bus projects. In traffic management, priority will be given to the measures required for the day-to-day operation of the transport network, the condition of a high-speed and significant network for business, as well as traffic safety and the opportunities offered by digitalisation. All measures aim to address climate change mitigation. Mr President! A mandate of EUR 90 million is proposed to extend the closures of the Saimaa Canal. The aim of the project is to promote the operating conditions of the Saimaa Canal and Lake Saimaa Region and reduce transport costs by allowing longer vessels On the Saimaa Canal and deepway network up to the ports of Varkaus and Joensuu. The project will extend the channel closures by 11 metres by renewing and transferring the upper gates of the locks. The Saimaa Canal is also being developed by raising the water level. This project was granted a mandate of EUR 5 million in the fourth amending budget for 20 years. A mandate of EUR 21.2 million and an appropriation of EUR 5 million for the year 21 is proposed for the development of the Viitasaari road section on Highway 4 on Äänekoski-Vitasaari road. The aim of the project is to improve road safety and traffic flow. The project will build central rails, interconnectors, new lighting and game fences for the current bypasses. A mandate of EUR 19 million and an appropriation of EUR 7 million for 21 years is proposed for the first phase of upgrading the Tampere-Jyväskylä track. The aim of the project is to promote the smooth operation of freight and passenger train traffic, improve track transmission capacity and promote the life cycle maintenance of the track. These activities are also largely directed towards the Jämsä region. Parliament approved the government's proposal for the fourth amending budget for the year 20 on 26 June. It includes funding in the form of interest relief, industrial investments and measures related to MAL contracts for a wide range of new road, rail and waterway projects across Finland. The financing of new bus projects approved in the amending budget will continue in the 21st draft budget. Mr President! As part of its climate policy measures, the Government will also increase its investment in new tram and commuter rail projects. A total of seven and a half million euro planning powers are proposed for the Turku tram project and for the Helsinki Region’s local rail depots. The fourth amending budget for the year 20 already granted a planning mandate on the Vantaa express rail road following the Government's proposal and extended the Tampere Raitiotie project by the so-called Hatanpää branch. Mr President! The Government submitted a proposal to the Parliament to amend the Act on fairway payments. The proposal proposes that the halves of the fairway fee be extended in 21. The measure aims to compensate for the loss of income and profitability of commercial shipping and foreign trade in economically uncertain circumstances. This will support Finland’s competitiveness and the functioning of commercial shipping. The government agreed in the budget debate in September 20 to extend the halves of fairway charges until 23. Mr President! The national transport system plan is being prepared under the leadership of the parliamentary steering group. The Transport 12 plan will contribute to a more predictable transport policy and will provide a long-term perspective on the development of the transport system. In the future, the plan will guide the allocation of funds to the transport system. As part of the plan, large-scale railway project companies will also be considered. The financing of the project companies is dealt with separately from the financial framework of the national transport system plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u4	We are entering the debatable phase and I would now like to ask those Members who wish to speak in this debat to take their place and, with a response button V, to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u5	Madam President! During this term of government, there will be a clear increase in investment in transport and communications networks. We can reduce the correction debt, develop transport networks and take emission reduction measures. This will support the vitality of the economy and create jobs. Mr Harakka, Minister for Transport and Communications, deserves very much thanks for this historic effort in inland waterway transport. In order to extend the closures of the Saimaa Canal, 90 million is a huge employment act at these times. It is expected to bring up to 1000–1200 person-years of work and work in the Russian quarter-renting area requires the This is also a huge act of climate change, as it is possible to operate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u6	Madam President! Thank you for continuing this road repair debt. It is a major task for us, and it must be continued in the way we started last season, and it must be speeded up a little, and hopefully in the next and perhaps the next period, there will be enough work to do, and I personally hope that these contributions will also be available for the lower state road network. There are a terrible number of asphalt roads that are filled with holes, but also gravel roads that are filled with holes. All the support for this job. But then the second question is whether any of these fixed roads will soon be available for anyone to drive. With us, the use of a car tilts at a fierce rate. At the beginning of August, you made history, the history of the 21st century, the biggest one-off increase in fuels, and now there are plans to pay congestion or tolls again for private motorists.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u7	Mr President! And, Minister, I'm gonna have to take a few withdrawals right there. I considered that administrative expenditure would increase by EUR 50 million, while, for example, it is already ten times as high as the environmental side of the transport sector. And one thing that made me wonder: contentment goals are oddly low, if you think that there are still quite a lot of investments there, which of course we must thank you for. Of course, I would have liked to see foreign trucks involved in these road cases, the promotion of vignette fees, which has also been involved in government negotiations, which would of course be the easiest and most sensible way of doing it through professional transport or commercial diesel. But, of course, as a representative of my own region, I must express my concern about the fact that highway 15
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u8	Madam President! The balanced development of the country as a whole, the promotion of diversity, regional equality and support for people's freedom of choice — all of these issues have a key role to play and secure transport and telecommunications connections, and in practice these issues will be reflected in next year's budget, for example, in the increased basic infrastructure allocation, the continuation of the level of aid for private roads, the launch of a number of new transport projects and also in broadband construction. I personally hope that these things can be taken forward next year and also in the years to come as ever better opportunities for people to live in Finland as a whole. And, Minister for Transport,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u9	Mr President! We all look forward to the major investments in rail links that have long been mentioned in this kingdom, especially those fast connections which have a significant impact on economic activity but which are also very important to people's everyday lives. Understandably, this expectation is sometimes even impatient. Many ask where the hour trains are staying, when the east track is speeding up, and in the north we have the main track and the less than four hour train to Oulu are important questions for both daily running and climate. Fortunately, however, the Minister's and the government's will is clear with regard to these high-speed trains. I would also like to ask briefly about cycling. This summer has been the golden age of domestic tourism, and cycling has already been a strong growth in tourism in the past. This year a new cycling centre was established in Finland, and it has been an important part of this information and route development. My question is: will this course of action be continued even after this funding has ceased?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u10	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the Government very warmly for the fact that two really important projects — three of them, but in particular the two — have received initial funding: Äänekoski — Viitasaari, which is the European road, Finland’s superior freeway. There's a Kong fabric that we still remember the accident, and it's a passageway that serves the whole country. It is now receiving the funding it needs. The second is the railway connection Tampere-Jyväskylä, which is an extremely important project for industry, which is also important for smoothness and safety and also because of the difficult situation in Jämsä Kaipola. Thank you for these. Mr President! When these new projects are being considered
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u11	Mr President! I thank the Minister for a very balanced transport policy for the whole country. Already in the Government Programme, it was decided to start repairing the road network that had been scrapped by the previous government, and under the circumstances of the corona, this decision was even better than anticipated. I'd like to raise a few individual targets. The promotion of Vantaa’s steering wheel transfers a large number of commuting traffic to the rails, facilitates congestion in the entire Helsinki Metropolitan Area and enables housing construction. It is a very important project. Then perhaps a completely new proposal. These high - speed trains between cities are very important, but the completion of the east track in particular seems to be painfully far away. According to the survey, depending on the policy, this part of Helsinki-Portoo is by far the most profitable. It would be a better project than anything else in this country to move passenger traffic onto the rails. Wouldn't it be a good idea to build this commuter line first?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u12	Madam President! We must thank the Minister for this: there are really good projects here, and they are all arguments. I'd like to ask you a few questions. I'll take it from this east track. About a week ago, when the ministry’s distinguished top official announced this, it caused some confusion. Is it now also the Minister's line on how it runs over there, and is it a stone-cracked line on how it goes? This line has caused exhilaration somewhere, but somewhere in the midst of depression. So, what's the situation here? Is there some planning money covered in this budget book now that I was unable to find it? The second is Highway 25, Hanko-Honkää, and from there the continuous main road 55, which goes all the way to Porvoose. It is dangerous, it has a lot of heavy traffic, it is the port of Hanko at the other end and Porvoo oil refinery at the other end. What's the status on this? I couldn't find any funding for that either. Is it designed to get started?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u13	Mr President! There is a lot of good inside, and especially after that summer's additional budget, there will be further funding for important infrastructure investments. With regard to Mr Tolvanen's first question, I would like to add that these project companies are, after all, a little blurry about this normal decision-making process. In the case of these large projects, such as railway projects, the general plan — its funding — will normally be decided by Parliament, and in this context this approach will also be applied in practice. Well, with regard to the east track, these three different lines have now been included in the preliminary report of the Fairway Office and have been subject to a meritable preliminary assessment. This notice then came out, in which the first recipients of project company funding were announced as being elected. However, in such cases, I think that we should primarily make the political approach which is the most sensible and urgent of the three in terms of the economy, and then start planning it forward. Here's a little bit of him waving a dog.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u14	Värderade Talman! För oss som bor i skärgården är det enormt viktigt att våra färtor fungerar. Det är de som tar oss fram, det är de som gör att vi överhuvudtaget kan leva där. Om färtorna står stilla står också det vardagliga livet i skärgården stilla. Det handlar alltså om att vi ska ta oss på jobb — jag ska ta mig hit till riksdagen — det handlar om att barnen ska komma till skolan, det handlar om att våra åldringar ska få den åldringsvård de behöver.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u15	Madam President! I would also like to raise this issue in my own speech, because this is a very important project for the whole of Eastern Finland, and it will also have a major impact on the reduction of emissions. It has been said that it is half the Finnish project, and this should be borne in mind. It has therefore been a pity that, in this regard, for example, it was not possible to move forward towards EU funding when the preparations of these project companies had not been sufficiently advanced at that stage. I would now like to hear how quickly we can move forward on this issue, because this connection with St. Petersburg actually allows us to have these TEN-T funding, and this would clearly be a project that we should also be able to take forward at EU level. On the same occasion, I would like to ask about this Finnair situation, for example, regarding flights in Joensuu, because we have a threat of becoming a bag case in North Karelia, if we listen to such eastern line lines,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u16	Mr President! It is easy to join Mr Essayah in this. Of the 126,000 flights in Joensuu, half are connecting flights elsewhere, and whoever else claims to be doing so, Joensuu Airport will have positive results. But all in all, I am very pleased with this transport policy. Now it has been raised to a high level and an agenda in the government, and it has also moved on to long-term transport planning, LJS 12 work. It appears to be moving along exactly according to schedules and hopefully completed in the spring. The investments made in basic bus maintenance have been visible on the roads during the summer. For example, with the Ely of North Savo, almost 10 per cent of the correction debt has been tackled, and that work will now continue in future budgets. Looking good.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u17	Madam President! It is a pleasure to be able to join in these thanks to Mr Haraka here. Perhaps the wisest solution for the entire state budget is to finance the extension of the closures of the Saimaa Canal. This EUR 90 million project is smart and its benefits are far-reaching. Foreign transport along the Saimaa Canal can continue and develop and will benefit both the export industry and our country's environmental objectives, and in this respect, on behalf of the whole province of South Karelia, I would like to express my thanks for this sensible solution and decision. In a group statement by the Greens' Parliament Group, a sentence was made about the major transport tax reform that will take place this autumn. However, we have not heard details about this, and it would be interesting to hear whether this information in the group talk is true, and if so, what kind of reform is coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u18	Mr President! In five years' time, Finns should have at least 100 megabits of Internet access in accordance with the Government Programme. The new Broadband Support Act is on the way and should enter into force from the beginning of next year. In the budget, you will allocate EUR 5 million to broadband construction for the coming year. Korona showed how important online connections are for children's schooling, young people's studies, services for the elderly and teleworking for working-age people. Finland is lagging behind and the objectives are far too low, not to mention measures and funding. Finland’s broadband construction should be much better than it currently is. How realistic do you, Minister Harakka, see that even that 100 megabit target can be achieved in Finland in five years, and would it be worth waking up to today and admitting that we are not getting enough market-based connections, but that both the state and the municipalities must invest more in broadband construction?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u19	Madam President! The repair debt of the road is an eternity problem, and contrary to what may have been claimed here, the previous government invested heavily, that is, the centre, the majority and the Finns, in improving the repair debt of the road, and I am glad that the work is now continuing. This budget shows a strong increase in the level of state aid for basic bus maintenance and private roads, thanks to the Minister, and the new bus projects, and thanks to the Minister and the Government for that. In particular, I would like to thank you for the amount to be invested in the Jyväskylä-Tampere track, the mandate is 19 million, and the Äänekoski-Vitasaari road section is EUR 21 million. Minister, thank you for your good work: very important projects for the whole of Finland and Central Finland. But I would also like to ask about that air traffic. Eighty-five per cent of air traffic from Jyväskylä continues to be connected. Now this decision by Finnair is terrible for the province. Could you open up a little how to guarantee air transport connections to Jyväskylä in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u20	Madam President! With this budget, only a few new development projects will be launched. In this respect, the government acted in a forward-looking way, and now the fourth amending budget has mobilised a significant number of new transport projects, worth more than 1.3 billion in total. I think it is important to carry out these projects that have already been decided and to finance them, but at the same time, we must look to the future. For the future, long-term work beyond government periods is important. The 12-year plan for transport ensures that the future development of the transport system is predictable from the point of view of people, businesses, municipalities and the public sector. I would like to ask Minister Haraka: when can we expect the results of the work of the group on the 12-year national transport system plan?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u21	Thank you, honourable Speaker! Personally, I wonder why this budget is increasing Yle's budget, the index. So the upper index increases by paying Yle 11.1 million more in the coming year, but when you look at the income side of the state, it is said that the income is not even close to that category that the upper index will not increase as much as the upper index will raise Yle's income. At the same level of earnings, 502 million and 30 million on the social side, we reach 532 million, while Yle is given 543 million on the whole. So is it not time to do the same thing as in 2015, i.e. freeze the Yle index in this economic situation, I ask.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u22	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a good presentation, and there are really a lot of good things here, and I have listened to them and I have read them with warmth, but I would like to ask you about that debt of correction that it is now almost 3 billion points and it has only grown, so what kind of tackle plan really is there? And then, in his day, the fragility of bridges was solved. There were several hundred bridges that needed repair. What is the current situation? Are you going to tell me more about this regional air traffic? Are you also going to tell me about the vignette fee? And how are you going to fix the taxi system? And how do you intend to address the traffic behaviour of young people? That's a few questions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u26	At this point, I will give two more replies, followed by the Minister. Firstly, Mr Löfström and secondly, Mr Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u27	Thank you, Mr President. One of the major sufferers of the crisis is shipping, as many shipowners have suffered passenger restrictions as well as air transport. This can be seen, for example, in traffic between Finland and Sweden, where many ships have been removed from traffic, three of them under the Finnish flag. The support received through the IGC and Traficom to maintain security of supply is vital. Thank the government for that. The proposal to extend the halving of fairway charges is important and supports Finnish shipping while supporting Finnish exports. Thank you to the government for that too. However, the danger is such that it is not enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u28	Madam President! From the outset, Mr Koskinen's comments on the project companies must be said to be quite relevant — thank you for that. Repairing bottlenecks in modern rail lines is the most important and cost-effective way to improve rail connections. So let's keep our eyes on the ball there, too. Finland is committed to halving transport emissions by 2030. That is an ambitious objective, but, as we heard this week, scientists say it is absolutely possible, provided that there is a strong will for it. New steps are now being taken towards fossil-free transport. One of the major implications of this budget is the reform of the employment benefits of transport in the climate. Emissions from commuting will be reduced by making the bicycle benefit tax-free up to EUR 1200, by promoting the introduction of electric cars and charging hybrids, and by encouraging the use of public transport where it is the most sustainable mode of transport. Although the employment car benefit affects only a small proportion of Finns, it accounts for up to 15 per cent of new cars. Within a few years, these
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u29	And now, Minister Harakka, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u30	Mr President! I would like to thank Parliament for its good questions, some of which I will then come back to you at the end. If I start now with Mr Risiko's question battery, most of which will be left to each referral debate itself when these things are brought here to Parliament, for example, in the very near future changes in the regulation of taxis. But when you were talking about that repair debt, this government has added EUR 300 million to the basic bus maintenance every year. Just now, when I said in the introduction what is new, what is special, then, in a way, this basic issue may be overlooked. EUR 1.2 billion over the entire term of the government will lead to the fact that, when it appears that we too in the Transport 12 Group have an agreement — thanks to the opposition, too, that this line will continue — then the debt of correction will finally decline in 2027. From then on, our roads are in better shape than ever, and this investment in road maintenance also applies to the lower road network. And as you may recall, last summer you were two and a half times more paved than the summer before, 4300 kilometers compared to 1,700 kilometers. The question of Broadcasting: Broadcasting is a parliamentary radio, or should we say Parliament's media today, and decisions are made in parliamentary terms. This Transport 12 group, which is to receive results, a final report and a Government report next spring, is also being led in parliamentary terms. At this point, I thank you for your good cooperation. [Sebastian Tynkyse’s interlude] Congressman Pitko asked me about bike travel. It is a very important choice for us to improve the conditions of cycling tourism, cycling tourism, on a national level. It has increased enormously throughout Finland last summer, including in Mainland Finland, and it is definitely one of those advantages, from which it is worth telling abroad that Finland is actually a pretty good cycling country. At this point I think it should be said that the investment in walking and cycling is EUR 40 million and more than this year, that is, ten times the amount of last year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u31	Mr President! The Parliament network of Highway 3 also visited the minister's familiar project, the Hämeenkyrö fairway, north of Tampere, from the beginning of the week. Now is a good time to put the export-driven Western Finland road network in order to accelerate economic growth. The arrangement of highways 3 and 19 on Lake Jalasjärvi is one of the key projects in the area of lobbying, and the plan for the crossing is ready to be implemented. Highway 19, which separates from the Intersect, is an important freeway for the whole of Food Finland. The decision to finance the first phase of Highway 19 was a profit. It is important that the development work continues all the way to Kauhava by implementing the tourism-friendly transport arrangements of Alahärmä and the entrance route of Kauhava. In the Vaasa region, the bottleneck has become the interconnector of highways 3 and 18 Pitkämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u32	Madam President! I agree with the Minister's thanks for his efforts in the corridors, and I will now raise a few of these issues as well as concerns. This is the accessibility of the regions: at the moment, especially Kainuu and Eastern Finland and also Northern Finland are facing air traffic problems. And then there are these emissions from transport, and it has been very strongly stated in the Government Programme that efforts must be made to reduce them. I ask the Minister: do we have any money in the budget for that? But as I was looking at this Finnish growth programme and what it is now possible to get here through the recovery fund, would we find new openings, such as those that can reduce emissions and also improve the accessibility of the regions in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u33	Mr President! It is an extremely important task to tackle the repair debt on the fairway network, and it must be commended that it has now been tackled well. The introduction of this professional diesel, which Mr Laakso has raised here, could make sense. I think it would be worth a closer look at that. But then, in fact, what I have to worry about is this reform of the taxi law, which went completely wrong last season. I have to admit that, even though I myself may have been partly responsible for it, perhaps under circumstances. Now, however, almost all the horror scenarios have been realised: prices have risen significantly, there have been inappropriate entrepreneurs in the sector, long-term customer service has been missed, accessibility has been reduced, and in some places customers are even being fought in the blood. Where is this project going, and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u34	Mr President! First of all, I should like to thank Mr Haraka for the fact that, in this difficult economic situation, too, we have been determined to move these transport projects forward. And especially thanks for the fact that many of these are targeted at the regions, where there is a crying need for better transport connections. They are essential if the conditions for living there in the first place are to be maintained. Concern has been raised here about the future of regional air traffic, and so I will mention it here myself. You may not be the Minister of Responsibility directly in these MAL agreements, but now that these MAL agreements are extended to the areas of Jyväskylä and Kuopio and Lahti in accordance with the Government Programme and there has been a slight worrying message that these negotiations are not progressing, can you say for yourself when they will be prepared and how funding will be provided for these regions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u35	Madam President! I will return to this air transport. I could say half-playingly that we in North Karelia are not quite balanced in air transport: there are hundreds of thousands of geese and there are currently no aircraft at all. As everyone knows, Finnair stopped flights to these five counties in the past summer. In September, it announced that it would return the shifts in October but that it would end them permanently after the winter season. And now we have the knowledge that flights come as triangular flights the couple of flights a week, which is not enough for our needs in that province. The working group on the future of flights stated in its report that on April 1st, — the end of 2021, for this period, would then be provided as a purchase service for this transport. I would like to ask the Minister: What, then, can be the means to bring this transport back to us by the end of next year? What is the timetable for the results? And above all, I would like to know what the Minister's message is for the actors in the province. They are very concerned about this situation in air transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u36	Madam President! I would also like to thank the Minister for extending the closures of the Saimaa Canal. This strengthens the operating conditions of industry and the vitality of the whole of Eastern Finland. I would also like to thank the Minister for his good work on the road map for fossil-free transport. I know that you are well acquainted with the synthetic fuel developed by LUT University, which, if implemented, would bring carbon-neutral transport fuel to Finland and, at the same time, several tens of thousands of new jobs. Industrial plants for synthetic fuels have not yet been implemented in Finland or the world. Now such a facility is being prepared in Lappeenranta in Swano. I would like to ask the Minister: the EU's stimulus money would give carbon-neutral fuel development a springboard on the Swan. Are you prepared to support this climate innovation and, as a result, bring tens of thousands to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u37	Mr President! I wanted to ask the Minister some more questions about this broadband project. It is self-evident that good internet access, good broadband is very important to everyone in these challenging situations and times and for the development of future work. But the signatory has a slight concern that this will not end up like the electricity grid, i.e. digging up fiber into the ground, which will cost users a lot of money, while at the same time mobile networks and even space networks are developing and we are therefore digging up old technology. In future, then, we will be concerned that this will not happen and that taxpayers' money will not be wasted. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u38	Mr President! I wish the Minister constructively two things: that you take balanced account of transport projects, major projects when planning Northern Finland, Western Finland, Southern Finland and Eastern Finland. I understand that the representatives of every constituency have their own interests to express their views here, but that is not the way Finland will be developed in a long-term way. We must see which region is clearly lagging behind, and we must try to compensate for it in a sensible way. The second, Minister and Members of Parliament, is the hope that when public studies on climate emissions are presented on the way Finland should aim to achieve its own goal in transport, not all studies should be believed. There are certain variables locked, not taken into account. Personally, I don't believe them completely. This may lead to serious problems for us if we do not change these tax structures.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u39	Mr President! Climate change, digitalisation are the megatrends of this time, and it is very clear to this administrative sector, so the Minister is taking on a great deal of responsibility. Thank you for a good introduction. The objective of halving emissions by 2030 is difficult, but it is important, and it has become clear this week, even with these research results, that there is no single instrument, a wide range of measures is needed. Of course, electrification plays an important role, and it should then definitely support the transition, when it is cheaper for a person or even a company to drive electricity in a long run, and it is also better for us economically, not only through the current account but also through its burden-sharing sector, in a way, to support it, find the right instruments and encourage it. But I'd put the question in there for digitalisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u40	Mr President! We really need to speed up fast rail links, but I would nevertheless like to draw attention to that main track and to hope that its basic improvement will be taken even more seriously, at a faster pace. There's a lot of those very acute needs for improvement. The whole rail network would also have a five to ten minute acceleration of around EUR 200 million, so I hope that we will look at the whole rail network in that respect too. Of course, there are good investments in the rail network here. Thank you for taking the Tampere-Jyväskylä track forward, among other things. Then there is the work of the 12 parliamentary working groups on Transport. As the Minister has said here, we have a good consensus that the correction debt should be reduced, and we have also taken the main route regulation as a very guiding factor. In this regard, I would have asked why there are no improvements to Highway 3 Parkano and Icali — and there have been serious personal accidents — and Highway 9. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u41	Madam President! The website of the fast rail connection, the Turku hour train, between Helsinki and Turku promises great things, which are certainly all to be welcomed. The part reads: "The hour train not only connects the two major centres, but brings all the localities along the track to a close part of the capital region." What does this, Minister Harakka, mean in practice? Of the 2.7 billion shares of Espoo and Salo on the 63 km journey, Lohja-Salo does not become stations or even local traffic, and this area cannot become part of the capital region through the track. This was based on the conclusion of a project assessment published yesterday by the Fairway Office on the unprofitability of the project. What is the government going to do to ensure that, in the meantime, the urban centres and thus the growth corridor can be realised, that the track is fully exploited, that the investment is profitable and, above all, that it can be realised? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u42	Mr President! The Government has invested particularly in the development of transport. A record number of transport projects are under way. Thanks to extensive infrastructure investments, the direction of the repair debt is also turning. Personally, I am very pleased that in the MAL 4 agreement for Pirkanmaa, the state has committed itself to supporting the development of commuter trains. The promise to continue and consolidate the commuter train pilot in the long term is an important issue for public transport in the Tampere region, in particular Nokia, Lempa and Orivede. The 4.5 million resource recorded here secures the construction of the station areas and the Tesoma seismic site in Tampere. The construction of Tampere’s steering wheel and its investments will increase the railway traffic in the urban area. The smooth and climate-friendly movement of people in urban areas is progressing with these rail projects. It is also important that the road projects and repairs started are completed and that the resources are secured. Thank you to Minister Haraka and to the entire government for their efforts in the development of transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u43	Madam President! It is extremely important that we finally and finally get this historic injustice right. After World War II, Eastern Finland was hit for a certain reason by traffic, and this has caused us to have been in the position of stepchildren for more than 80 years since then. Now we should make this eastern track work, and precisely so that it can be built through Porvoo in Kouvola and then directly towards Joensuu, which will speed up the traffic. It is a transport route for more than one million people, a route that is vital for the whole of Eastern Finland. This has been going on for so long in this house that I wonder if it is now time to put this right, because it is the spirit and life for us for real. And, of course, air transport is equally important. It cannot be that international companies, for example in the Joensuu region, suffer from the fact that their customers are unable to visit them and the trade is deteriorating. It's really fatal for us. I very much appreciate the excellent work done by Mr Haraka and hope that it will continue at the same pace and that it will:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u44	At this point I will give three more speeches, followed by a minister. So representatives of Reijonen, Laukkanen, Kymäläinen, and representative of Reijonen begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Eastern Finland is one where there are also a lot of roads, and projects are also awaited there. There are some projects there, but I don't think there's going to be any bigger road projects. That's what I would have asked you. And then I would have asked about this in general, that if you compare the road with a person — the heart must be in order, but so must peripheral blood circulation — then the road is in the same way: if Southern Finland is in good shape, the Helsinki region is in good shape, then the peripheral network must also be further away. So it would take a lot of money for these little guys. When has it been thought that this repair debt, EUR 2.8 billion, has been fully redeemed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u46	Madam President! Last season, the parliamentary transport working group reached this 12-year planning period, which is now producing good results and shows that such cooperation can be a success over the parliamentary term. Some €8-9 billion of taxes are collected from motorists. However, more than one billion dollars are spent on the roads. I'm gonna ask the minister now: This relationship is, after all, completely incomprehensible to the public. Sweden will raise over 13 billion and return 5 billion to road maintenance. Is this changing? Would there be a correction to this relationship so that the funds raised would be better targeted at those targets needed by motorists? Then I would like to ask about this eastern track, about which Minister Skinner said that it might not be implemented at all. I would now like to ask the minister's point of view, which is the real point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u47	Madam President! As far as transport is concerned, Finland needs to be developed in a balanced manner, taking into account the different modes of transport, and this is what has been done during this term of government. If we look at the whole of what was done for, for example, the spring amending budgets with regard to major climate recovery and those projects, then this autumn we have tried to correct those areas that were less. These railway and road projects in Central Finland are a good example of this. That is exactly the way, Minister, it is up to us to look at the whole and the regionalities equally. I would like to say here about this completely new model of employment benefits for transport, which this budget also brings. It is a remarkable reform. They've been brought here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u48	Minister Harakka, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u50	Now we move from the section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications to the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and there is at least Minister Pekonen here. — Minister Pekonen, presentation, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u51	Madam President! The budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health contributes to the objectives of social sustainability of the Government Programme. The security of income and high-quality social and health services provide well-being and trust that everyone is taken care of. The Government is committed to securing the well-being of Finns and the survival of companies beyond the crisis with minimal human and financial damage. We want everyone to remain involved during and after the corona crisis. The draft budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health ensures the financing and functioning of the social security system in an exceptional situation. The interest virus situation has a significant impact on the growth of Kela's benefits, such as unemployment benefit, housing allowance and basic income support. EUR 17.6 billion is proposed for the administrative sector of STM, which is EUR 2.7 billion more than in the 2020 budget itself. The increase in appropriations is due to the corona virus situation, in particular the estimated increase in unemployment and in the number of laid-off persons. In exceptional times, the role of social and health organisations is emphasised. This has been taken into account in the Government's proposal by compensating for the decrease in the yield of Veikkaus for STM by EUR 149.2 million. The decrease in the yield of the bet will be financed by EUR 34.4 million from the decrease in the lottery tax and EUR 114.8 million from undistributed gambling profits. These undivided gambling profits were generated when gambling companies merged in 2017. EUR 362.4 million is proposed for STEA grants. Student health care for university students will change as from 1 January 2021. In the future, Kela will organise the student health care services produced by the Student Health Care Foundation (HSHS). At the same time, the student health services produced by the Foundation are also used by students at universities of applied sciences. EUR 4.5 billion is proposed for compensation of family and housing costs, basic income support and some services. This is EUR 211 million more than in the 2020 budget itself. The increase is mainly due to an increase in unemployment due to the corona virus situation, which increases the benefit costs of general housing allowance and basic income support and Kela's operating costs. A total of EUR 469 million is proposed for Kela’s operating expenses, which is an increase of EUR 28.8 million compared to the actual budget for 2020. An amount of EUR 2.8 billion is proposed for unemployment benefit, which is EUR 0.6 billion more than in the 2020 budget itself. As noted, this increase is due to an increase in unemployment and the number of layoffs caused by the corona virus situation. A total of EUR 2.1 billion is proposed for health insurance and EUR 5 billion for pensions, which is EUR 256 million more than in the current year's actual budget. The additions are due to changes in the needs assessment. As you know, the overall budget for 2021 is exceptional in that, in addition to the actual budget proposal now under discussion, this year's budget will be affected by this year's amending budgets: the supplementary budget proposal for next year in November and the amending budgets for next year. The supplementary draft budget includes, among other things, future investments in the Government Programme and the use of EU Recovery Fund funds in next year's amending budget. In this respect, we will also come back to this with regard to the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Mr President! Krista Kiuru, Minister of Family and Basic Services, will continue to present the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u52	Minister Kiuru, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u53	Mr President! The budget allocation in the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health amounts to around EUR 2.7 billion more than in the current year. This increase is largely due to the direct and indirect costs of the corona virus epidemic. The main emphasis in the section is on measures to secure the resources needed by the service system to deal with the epidemic. At the same time, the draft budget will continue to implement the Government Programme of Prime Minister Sanna Marin. The Government makes investments in the service system to support people's well-being and to secure the conditions for a good life for all. The situation of the corona virus puts considerable pressure on the functioning of the service system. It is therefore essential that municipalities, joint municipal authorities and hospital districts have the assurance that the management of the epidemic will not be dependent on resources. The increase in testing capacity and the testing model for border traffic will also contribute to the need for sampling staff and equipment and laboratory analytics equipment. In fact, the draft budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health ensures the resources for the management of corona pandemic in accordance with the Government's prevention, testing, tracing, isolation, management strategy. A total of around EUR 1.7 billion is proposed for the direct costs associated with the Korona virus. Most of this is about testing and increasing the testing capacity and tracking the transmission chains. Funding has also been earmarked for investments in testing technology and health security costs at border crossing points. In addition, EUR 200 million is presented to municipalities, joint municipal authorities and the Åland Islands for the direct costs of non-testing of the corona virus situation. In the autumn budget debate, the Government has committed itself to reimburse the costs associated with the corona for municipalities and hospital districts, such as testing, increasing test capacity, tracing, quarantine, patient care, safe travel and vaccine-related expenditure, for as long as the disease situation and the implementation of the hybrid strategy so require. In addition to these immediate costs, the Corona virus epidemic has also had far-reaching effects on health care and social care. We know that this year's visits to health care and special care have decreased significantly from normal, and there is also an accumulated service deficit in social care. In this context, it should be noted explicitly that the government has also committed itself to the write-off of the management and service debt by a total of EUR 450 million between 2021 and 2023. At the same time, a steering mechanism will be put in place to ensure that the resources allocated to the whole will genuinely reduce the management and service debt. Mr President! In total, approximately EUR 2 billion is proposed for municipal social and health care. In addition to the above-mentioned activities related to the corona virus, the increase is also due to expenditure on student health care and to increases in the budget for project activities. Student health care for university students will change at the beginning of 2021. Kela will organise the student health care services provided by the Student Health Foundation in the future. Student health care services produced by the Foundation are also available to students in polytechnics. Some EUR 123 million will be reserved for service structure development projects, which is approximately EUR 25 million more than in 2020. In order to implement the social reform, it is essential to continue projects to support the preparation of the reform and the transition of responsibility for organising services to the social welfare regions. Additional funding will also be allocated to the operation of shelters in accordance with the Government Programme. Some of the improvements to the main Government Programme for Social and Health Care will be implemented through the central government section of basic services. The law protecting the binding human dimension of the care of the elderly came into force from the beginning of October. [TimoHeinonenarvous] In accordance with the transitional period approved by Parliament, the dimensioning will gradually increase,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u54	And now I ask those representatives who want to use the reply to the question, to stand up and press the V button from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u55	Mr President! As Minister Pekonen said in his presentation, next year's budget for the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health sector will be as much as 2.7 billion higher than this year. This amount is enormous, but it is largely explained by these direct or indirect increases in expenditure resulting from the interest rate. Just preparing for testing takes about half of this total amount. At the same time, this tells us how important it is for us to find this virus, which we still have uncertainty about, whether we will have a vaccine or not, an appropriate balance in which we will both seek protection from the virus and at the same time see to it that society can function as normally as possible and that the wheels of business can run as quickly as possible. I would like to thank you at this stage, perhaps back in the debate, for the fact that it has also been possible to take up this situation in the organisations themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u56	Madam President! The mental health services for children and young people were already congested before the corona period and the queues there were long. It is still not possible to respond to the distress of children and families. Children’s anxiety and anxiety are often also seen in school as learning difficulties, exclusion, bullying, even violence. Why is the government not prepared to introduce a therapeutic guarantee to strengthen low-level, basic mental health services? It could also help young people to work better when mental health issues were dealt with first. And why, Minister, are you taking away the psychologists and curators of student care in the social welfare reform? There's practically nothing left for school.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u57	Madam President! Just as ministers here said in their excellent presentations, this section is growing significantly. If we look at the entire budget of a state with a total budget of EUR 64 billion, then the VM's section will be EUR 19.6 billion and this STM will be EUR 17.5 billion. Together, they account for almost 60% of the total budget, and even in the main category of the VM, 9 billion is the financing of basic municipal services. If we were to divide this debate now in accordance with these appropriations, we would have to spend half of the entire budget on these matters of social security and social and health services. At the end of my speech, I will briefly draw attention to the treatment guarantee. It is part of the development of the service structure, which Minister Kiuru mentioned. EUR 1 million will in practice receive 20,000 more visits to doctors, EUR 100 million 2 million. These are the simple ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u58	Madam President! The size of the staff actually came into force, 0.5 at the beginning of October. How do you enforce this law? Originally, the Finns believed that it should have been 0.7 immediately. We do not think that 0.5 is enough. Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation in home care. According to the budget book, more and more older people spend their old age there in their own home. Will you also bring the staffing dimension to home care, and how will you develop it? Mr Pekonen, I would like to ask you about the corona virus vaccine. What's the point? What kind of cooperation does Finland have? And then I'm gonna ask you about the cancer screenings. Today is Roosa tape day, we have a Roosa ribbon mark on our chest. This time it will raise funds for all those who eat and fight them. I would like to ask about the cancer of the intestines, and I have taken the initiative: are you finally bringing cancer screenings covering the whole of Finland to Finland? Cheap screening, very important and significant, prevents and finds findings as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u59	Madam President! Low-threshold services provided by organisations are an indispensable part of the human service network. In particular, social welfare organisations are responsible for a significant number of preventive and timely welfare and health-supporting and strengthening services which municipalities are unable to provide themselves. The organisations take care of the weakest by doing, for example, mental health work or supporting the ability and inclusion of people with disabilities and those in need of support. It should be noted that the deterioration of the status of organisations in the worst case scenario may even threaten the realisation of equality. How will the government consider that the organization field will be able to provide low-threshold services in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u60	Mr President! I agree with these thanks for managing the funding of organisations because it is important normally, but especially during the corona crisis it is important because they produce agile low-threshold services as a complement to municipal services. The second thanks are due to municipal funding and interest rate financing, which have been done exactly as they should be. But here on the organizational side, I am a little concerned about the future, because we all know that the undivided portion has now been used. I hope that the ministers are already working on the next budget, even though this timing seems rather funny, so that a solution can be found beyond the mere reduction of the lottery tax, because that is not quite enough for what we have. And one wish relates to this development of working life, which is also partly on the side of the STM: that mental health should be strongly involved, because it is one of the reasons we have, or the main reason at the moment, for being on disability pension, and it costs around 11 billion a year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u61	Mr President! It is good that this budget is prepared for interest rate expenditure, testing, treatment and protective equipment. For example, masks are a critical factor in keeping society open. In this respect, I would also like to see money accompanied by a sufficiently clear and strong message from the government that masks are actually being widely used. Yesterday it was already heard that the whole truth was not told in the spring as to why the mask was not given, even though already there were indications of the benefits of masks. This is a serious matter in itself. Good governance is transparency and honesty. Has the government really known about the benefits of wearing masks in the spring, but did they say otherwise because there were not enough masks? Now I am also concerned that government communication gave rise to doubts about the benefits of wearing masks and that it is reflected in people's activities today. Last night in the A-Studio, representatives of the government parties spoke about how masks do not suit everyone and how masks bring a sense of unnecessary security. I'm sure that's the same side, but if society is to be kept open, it's going to require enhanced protection and crystal clear implementation. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u62	Mr President! The field of social welfare and health services will be clearly marked next year as a corona. It brings extra costs to testing and treatment. In addition, it brings a lot of indirect costs and problems. Direct costs have been promised to be reimbursed, and indirect costs will also be facilitated by increasing the central government shares of municipalities as well as through the dismantling of care queues. As interest rates continue, it is also important to take care and signal that so-called normal services should not be driven down to an unnecessary extent now that the corona crisis continues. Mr President! The funding of social welfare organisations has also been at stake due to a reduction in the profit margin. I thank the government for the fact that, fortunately, you have found the money to compensate the organisations for the reduction in these funds next year. Like many speakers here, I am concerned about what will happen in the coming years, because the reduction in funds will be somewhat permanent and 100% compensation will not necessarily be possible in the same way in the coming years. I would therefore like to ask what kind of process has been launched with the organisations in order to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u63	Madam President! I would like to thank the ministers for this good presentation. I'll raise four points. Firstly, the cost of the interest rate to municipalities and medical districts will be fully reimbursed, and this is a strong message that has been expected at the municipal level. In addition, much has been said about this hybrid strategy of ours and precisely about testing, and now this proposal ensures that the thorn in the test is open, so to speak, so that it has been invested in it. With regard to this nursing debt, which has accumulated as a result of the interest rate, it is important that almost half a billion people have now invested in it, and the accumulation is indeed reflected in growing waiting lists or even in the pressure of care for the elderly in the home care and 24-hour care sectors. And the compensation of these social welfare organizations, 347 million, is a very large hand-out to the organization field, which, especially in the corona era, has supported our society. So, basically, I want to say thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u64	Madam President! Ministers, what are you going to do about keeping nurses in the business? What are the plans to increase the attractiveness of nursing? It's a big deal. One big thing is support for informal care. True Finns have worked hard to ensure that the support for informal care is tax-free, but the government has not been prepared to do so. Are there any national criteria for achieving a level playing field for informal care? I would also like to draw attention to child welfare. I'm sure the interest period will raise that need. How is this taken into account in the budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u65	Madam President! About a year ago it was said that health centers need to be put in order: a thousand more doctors are needed, so that the seven - day treatment guarantee is also fulfilled. Now there's been no mention of this thousand doctors. Has Minister Kiuru forgotten this promise? This nursing debt was also fostered by the Government's confusing message that at first, especially those at risk, were banned from even applying to a health centre on matters other than those related to corona. And now this removal of the Kela allowance, which you also have on the agency: how are you going to secure gynaecologist services, ophthalmologist services or, for example, dental care for low incomes and middle incomes? This top-of-the-line reform of dental care is good, but when it is combined
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u66	Irade fru talman, Madam President! Today is the national day of the mental health family, i.e. the day of Ilona. This year's theme is to reduce prejudice and shame on mental health problems, especially from the point of view of children and young people. One in four underage children currently live in a family where the parent has mental health problems, and the corona crisis has further increased mental health problems and loneliness. Madam President! NGOs are doing very important work in this area on a low threshold, and I would also like to thank you for keeping the funding at the same level next year, but we know that the revenue from the betting profit is expected to decrease next year. I would like to ask Mr Pekos about mental health work, especially for the next-door family: how will this be reflected in next year's budget, and especially in the next few years? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u67	Madam President! Today is indeed a national mental - health day. All parties supported the implementation of the tera-pipia guarantee, but it is missing from the budget — why? I wonder, could we together implement that therapeutic guarantee this year? Minister Kiuru, your speech on the wearing of masks has been very unclear. You have opposed the recommendation for a mask, saying that the expert report received and the experts who have heard the message are quite unambiguous — that is, unambiguous. In spring you said this, while the respected medical publication, The Lancet, stated that the benefits of masks in preventing corona infections are clear. So said the government's science panel. My question is, what's going on? Has the government really known about the benefits of wearing masks already in the spring, but then said otherwise? I hope that you will now explain this to Parliament. I myself receive a daily message of concern from social workers, service professionals, who are forced to travel through congested public transport. They themselves wear masks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u68	Mr President! I would also like an answer to what Mr Sarkomaa asked about. I would have asked so much about these organizational grants that do you possibly have some sort of independent study of cost-effectiveness, since the third sector should traditionally be based on membership fees, donations and voluntary contributions, unless it is in support of the statutory service or of general interest, because now money is also going to the Kyrgyz Tobacco Reduction and the Lieksa Somali Association, whose public interest can always be called into question. But the other thing is... I am a little disappointed that family carers have been so poorly taken into account in this budget, given that during the corona period they have done a huge job and you have reduced this funding from the previous government period by up to half. I think it might be a good idea to fix this. And the third is this food aid, which is completely out of funding. Would it perhaps be worth reconsidering?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u69	Madam President! Thank you to the ministers and the government for wanting to keep everyone involved during and after the interest rate. The disparities between regions remain large. It is important for the implementation of fundamental rights that we take regional decisions and guidelines in plain language. A society can't be recaptured for the second time. We should learn to live with this disease as normal as possible. Thanks to the carefulness of teachers and students, the school buildings themselves have received only a limited number of confirmed infections. It's just that the infected ones have come true all over the place. There must be a really high threshold for returning to school-based distance education, which has been well achieved as a whole, but has brought with it a wide range of problems. Restrictions should be made by region. They must be necessary. I would like to ask the Minister: how do you intend to influence the fact that schools are not being placed in the regions during the acceleration phase?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u70	Mr President! It is very important that the total cost of the corona virus situation is set out in the budget at around EUR 4 billion. I also think it is essential that the fall in the revenue of Veikkaus be fully compensated by the organisations in the coming years. A number of municipalities have been negotiating closely this year and are planning to take painful steps to balance the economy. It is important that the government has heard the emergency cry of municipalities and supports the municipalities in both the autumn 2020 Draft Amending Budget and the 21 Draft Budget with a total of EUR 1.45 billion. Municipal subsidies in the municipal package of the Government are significant sums and help to balance the finances of larger and smaller municipalities. These subsidies can finance services that are important to local residents and hopefully we can avoid at least the worst cuts, layoffs and layoffs in municipalities this year and next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u71	Mr President! Sote reform has good objectives, but the government's proposal in the statements does not lead to these objectives but brings a wide range of problems, even new ones. What is the situation now, at the moment, with regard to taking account of opinions and taking the reform forward, for example in the role of private service providers and in the financing of municipalities and so on? What is the status of the social reform at the moment, is it progressing? And the folded index, have you completely forgotten it? Initiatives have been taken in this Parliament. And informal care, as has been raised here by the Finns of Finland, really requires urgent reforms. The Government Programme states that it will be developed. How will it be developed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u72	Mr President! I, too, would be interested to know the real reason why masks were not recommended in the spring. In the spring, Minister Kiuru, you said that masks are not of undisputed use. They were also the subject of a separate report, and, as Mr Sarkomaa said here for example, they were recommended by authoritative newspapers and agencies. Yesterday, however, the Prime Minister said that masks were not recommended because they did not exist. Mr President! I would now like to know from the Minister what the truth is about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u73	Mr President! The summer and early autumn of many social welfare organisations has been a time of great concern and uncertainty. Thousands of workers have had great concerns about their own job and also about their own customers, to whom the support they receive through their work may be the only one in our service system. One of these customer groups is close to those who are struggling with mental health and substance abuse problems. They continue to fall into the cracks of our service system, which associations around Finland, with limited resources, are trying to patch up. That is why today, when we are celebrating the national day of mental health, I would like to thank the government for its decisions to secure the funding of organisations for next year. However, it is quite clear that the future of the organisations remains at stake and that a much more ethically sustainable basis for funding must be put in place. I would like to ask Minister Kiuru: what measures can be taken in the future to ensure more seamless cooperation between organisations and the public?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u74	Madam President! The most serious question in this Question Time is, in my opinion, whether we had a completely unnecessary study last summer of the benefits of these masks and their use. Were we finally given the truth yesterday and told that, since the government failed to deliver enough masks in the spring, this decision was therefore delayed? Is this not dangerous to play with the lives and health of people? I therefore hope that the ministers of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health who are here will now tell us the reality of this situation and why, for example, money was used to carry out completely unnecessary research. In this context, I would also like to highlight the food aid that has already been mentioned here. We know that this situation will get worse in the municipalities and that food lines will grow. Could it be considered that Parliament, for example, would still be able to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u75	Madam President! It is now the national Vanhusten Week, but in Wednesday's debate on the budget, the matter of the elderly was an unfortunate one. The fact is that there were serious shortcomings in the care of the elderly in our country even before the corona. With interest, older people’s daily lives have become lonely and other mild phenomena to which we must seek solutions together. The Board of Directors has already promoted, among other things, the nursing dimension and the Customer Fees Act. The quality recommendation to ensure good ageing has also been published, and these are absolutely good things. We need to learn from spring, among other things, that the mental health of older people is not yet adequately safeguarded, and so I ask the Minister how the government intends to support the mental health of older people. One means is strong support for the third sector, and I thank the government for that: The losses of the bet for this year will be fully compensated and the government will ensure that the organisations are not cut off. That work is important, and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u76	Madam President! Just a few questions. Ministers, when are you really going to strengthen the services to be taken home by the elderly? After all, the researchers at Aalto University have already come to terms with this. When will the Act on care for the elderly be strengthened? It's three months now, isn't it? When are you going to make a change? What about the health care guarantee? You've already promised it quite a few times. When does it get here in Parliament? How do you make it easier for family carers? And then, when will you bring in a so-called frontier law to correct the cross-border healthcare compensation system in line with the directive? And finally, as a sugar on the bottom: Why did not even you tell Parliament the truth about motives in connection with the government's recommendation on masks in the spring? Now it would be very good to open it here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u77	Mr President! I did not intend to give this kind of speech, which I am now going to give, but since the debate inevitably goes into the masquerades of yesterday, I would like to review what the Prime Minister has said in this Chamber in the spring. This is a direct quote: ‘We would need up to 15 million of these protection days,andthe government would be completely irresponsible in a situation where we have a number of suchrecommendations to citizens. “ This is in the spring, and this came as a completely new matter in this Chamber for many of us. Sometimes I wonder how short a memory we have when we talk about these things. [Heckling — Timo Heinonen asks for a reply]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u78	Mr President! I have now been provoking this speech to the extent that I would like to remind you that the decision not to make a recommendation for masks was justified by an explanation made by the STM, the result of which was that masks are of no use or even harm. Then the question arises as to what has changed. This STM investigation is no longer valid information? Why are we wearing masks at the moment in the Chamber, and why are we asking people to wear so-called folk masks in public transport if they are of any use or even harmful?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u79	Madam President! Today is indeed a day for mental health people, and it is good that it has been strongly raised here in the parliamentary debate. However, I would like to ask Minister Pekos: you will remember when the celiac allowance was abolished last season. As a result, the celiac disease patient group is the only group that does not receive medical or equivalent reimbursement for the treatment of their disease. Last autumn, Parliament unanimously adopted a statement calling for measures to remedy this. The statement is worded precisely as follows: ‘The budgetrequires that a report on the reimbursement of compensation should be carried out quickly and that the costsrequired for the Mr Pekonen, what is the situation with regard to the refund of the celiac disease allowance?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u80	Madam President! Let's talk about this. A little more from Marin's Maskgate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u87	Mr President! Under the STM there is an action programme to prevent female genital mutilation. About a year ago, a similar citizens' initiative was discussed in this Chamber, at the latest, when it turned out that these mutilations have not become convictions, and in fact no one has been accused, even though there are a large number of victims and those under threat, apparently even several thousand. Then the Minister of Justice said that zero tolerance had been taken into account. All of this raises the question of the ability of a democratic Nordic society to intervene when a large number of people are in the country, who are not adaptable and capable. Similar large-scale unadaptability has also contributed to increased housing allowance and income support. I would like to ask: how are we going to change these chronic problems when there are no turning-around initiatives?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u88	Mr President! According to a recent OECD study, the main obstacles to employment in Finland are health problems and a lack of suitable employment opportunities. In other words, social security is not a central cause of unemployment, although it is often suggested in public that too generous social security benefits prevent employment. However, this is not the case in the light of the investigation. Mr President! Social and health policy is therefore an employment policy and improving access to care and access to care also has a positive impact on employment. Mr President! As part of the tightening and changes in the treatment guarantee, the availability of low-threshold mental health services will also be improved. Would Minister Kiuru say more about what is now planned in this care guarantee legislation for mental health services? Many employers have added short-term therapies to their health at work with good results. I would like to ask: have occupational health legislation taken sufficient account of the prevention and treatment of work-related mental health problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u89	Madam President! The EUR 20 may seem small in this room, but for many, it is a crucial sum in whether there is enough money to show the nurse a sick back or whether the next month is going to be in pain. It is estimated that about one fifth of long-term sufferers will have to reduce the necessary expenses, such as food, to cope with customer charges. I'm glad things will get easier in the future. The Board of Directors has decided to abolish the fees for the nurse’s receptions and to reduce other social welfare and health care charges. The amendments to the Customer Fees Act will enter into force on 1 July 2021. This reform is also important from the point of view of combating sexual violence, as it secures free visits to the victims of sexual crimes. In addition, the health care ceiling was extended from the beginning of 2020. This will in particular improve the economy of people in need of services and of low-income families. I would therefore like to thank the ministers for their excellent work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u90	Madam President! I'm surprised by the masculine populism of the National Coalition. That is very clear. I have here a statement by a leading virologist last summer, in which he said that the Norwegian Public Health Service investigated the situation in June: in the event of a silent epidemic, 200,000 people should wear masks to prevent one infection per week. It was then found that although the situation in Finland is quiet, it is bad in the world. Any hedging measure must always be proportionate to that risk. The helmet protects when the head falls, but we don't wear helmets when walking, we use bikes, we use hockey, we don't use jogging paths. The situation with masks was quite different in the summer when we were infected with 10 per day and were mainly outdoors. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u93	Madam President! In the spring, the government obliged the hospital districts to transfer urgent treatments, and at the same time you also strongly signaled that you should keep your physical distance. Well, this led to the fact that people in fear of corona did not go to cancer screenings, did not go to studies and interrupted treatments already started, so treatment lines increased. Now the statistics tell a very harsh language about treatment queues. Over the last 10 years, at the end of August, there have been about 2,000 people in queues. Now that number is 18,000. 18,000 people are waiting in line for treatment. We are now making budgets for next year in municipalities and health care districts with deficits and financial pressures on the back of the neck, as well as the fear of sufficient staff and the ability of the staff to cope. In the spring, you promised me compensation for the interest payments. The medical districts are still waiting for that money. Now I am very pleased that, Minister Kiuru, you promised to fully reimburse the interest rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u94	Let us take two more replies to this and then the ministers. Representatives Kivisaari and Vähämäki, and Kivisaari will begin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u95	Mr President! Indeed, I agree with what Mr Lindén said about this mask populism.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u100	Honorable Speaker! I myself would like to ask about the distribution effects of the budget in this respect because the STM section states that the Government Programme's objective is to reduce poverty, and yet when we look at the distribution effects of the budget, these are clearly reducing the disposable income for the lowest income decile. In other words, the low income rate for people under the age of 18 and for those over the age of 65 will increase and the low income rate for the unemployed will also increase. Are you aware of this imbalance in relation to the government programme and the revenue-sharing effects of the budget, and what are you going to do about it, for example, in the supplementary proposal on the supplementary budget, which may still be on the way towards the end of the year?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u101	Now, ministers, for both of us, five minutes, and who's gonna start?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u102	Mr President! Thank you for the questions that came to the flood. Let me begin by telling Mrs Viljanen about the current situation with regard to these masks. So at the moment this situation is very different for all these protective equipment, masks and others, as it was in the spring. In the spring, the world market for these masks was virtually closed. No one could get these masks from anywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u105	Thank you. — Minister Kiuru, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u106	Mr President! Let me start with this mask package that was brought here for the budget debate. We must certainly start by recalling the time it took when the government took its own line, which did not formally recommend masks for all certain groups or situations, but it was found that masks can be used in particular where distances cannot be kept. Now the view has been brought to this Chamber that this situation, in which we lived, would have defended the fact that masks had been introduced. I want to remind you,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u119	President! The Sote proposal states that the student care facilities are located at the school or in the immediate vicinity of the school. Psychologists and curators working in education work at school, not in its immediate vicinity. Schools need enough teacher and student care, and help must be available directly from school on a low threshold. Any other kind of thinking is pure madness. Are these services available in schools, not in its immediate vicinity? Minister Lintilä was unable to answer this yesterday, so let's ask him again. Based on the results so far, the dog has smelled the infection in Finland 4 to 5 days before the laboratory test showed positive results. There are estimates that training a thousand corona dogs costs about two million dollars, and that is the same amount that we spend testing a day. Koronadogs would be a preventive investment that would certainly help keep society more open, which would help many Finnish businesses and businesses, including the event industry, tourism, the restaurant industry. Interest may be our problem for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u120	Mr President! A few brief, direct questions. I will continue with the issue of corona dogs, which I asked Minister Kiuru here on Tuesday. I believe this would require a change in the law in addition to its training. Are you preparing legal changes that would allow these corona dogs to serve as official dogs in ports, airports, why not elsewhere? And I'd like to ask Minister Bakos: I understand that you have also been visited by a delegation in connection with copyright compensation. At the moment, intellectual property rights in the cultural sector are taken into account in reducing unemployment security, but at the same time, when you raise that unemployment benefit... - I'm sorry, they don't build it up, but they do. This would require an amendment to the Regulation. Is such a change of regulation now in preparation for the removal of this problem and for cultural workers to receive full unemployment benefit?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u121	Mr President! I think that this opposition attack on ministers in this matter of masks is a little disproportionate. If we look back on this spring, many of you sat together in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and were at the same time informed, and THL, WHO, all agreed that they did not recommend using this mask.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u122	Thank you, Mr President. At the end of last month, a four-month pilot at Helsinki–Vantaan airport was launched for the use of dogs in the field of interest rate testing. In addition to being more comfortable, faster, the test method is estimated to be more reliable than the general PCR test. With the help of dogs, we can achieve great economic benefits, but we can also safely keep our society open. The funding has now been secured for the pilot period, and the Deputy Mayor of Vantaa, Aronkytö, has publicly hoped that Customs would take over the interest test and that dogs would be given the status of an official dog. My question is this: is the government committed to the fact that, if the piloting work produces good results, what does it look like now, funding and the required legislative changes will be brought to Parliament without delay, and will the government during the pilot be preparing any further steps and not just waiting for the end of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u123	Mr President! In the spring, when this epidemic struck, one of the measures we had was that schools were closed up, and one can say afterwards that our schools and teachers were very successful in that big picture, and thank them very much for it. But at the same time, I must say that many students, schoolchildren, longed for school there, and that was a relief for many when they were able to return there before the summer holidays. On the other hand, in the higher education sector we have been going on for quite a long time that time for the majority of studies has taken place at a distance. Some are very well and have done it without problems, but then some of them have lost their well-being and become sick and mental health problems. I would like to ask: what kind of cooperation is there now in order to reduce and avoid these problems, with the Ministry of Education and Culture? I would like to say that when these issues are quite serious for students, it would be good to keep the threshold for closing schools.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u124	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! A personal identity code reform is planned, which means that the entire personal identity code will be scrapped. It should all be new — driving licences should be renewed, passports should be renewed, all health systems and many others would be quite confused, and it would cost a terrible amount of money. Are you ready to cancel this ID reform? At the same time, have you considered that when universities and university hospitals work very closely together — and it is very important that university hospitals remain in our home — it is really important — how do you intend to ensure that we have university hospitals in every region? And again, I'd like to ask you: This corona time is difficult, and people are having trouble. What are you going to do to reduce suicides in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u125	Mr President! The amendment to the Customer Fees Act has been submitted to Parliament, and hopefully we will soon be able to deal with it here. There are a lot of good reforms, one of the most important ones being the extension of the health-care ceiling to oral health care. It is an important improvement in health equality and will facilitate access to dental care and access to dental care, in particular for deprived persons. However, as a result, the need for public dental care may increase as pent-up demand erupts, and because of the corona, treatment queues have already increased in oral health care. I would like to ask: is there also an oral health care allowance to be allocated, and to what extent, and how can dental treatment queues be dismantled and shortened in the long term in a structural way?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u126	Mr President! I myself had thought of talking about something else for the second time, but I must say that this criticism of this recommendation and practice from the opposition does not surprise me. In Finland, we have had one of the best figures in the world in terms of how we have been sick and how many people have died. I would like attention to be paid to this, because really timely and correct measures have been taken, so it is worth bearing it in mind. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u127	Mr President! The government's proposal to correct the shortcomings of the insurance doctor system is expected to rise as if it were on the moon. Unfortunately, this project has also been delayed by the interest-rate crisis. Of course, how this relates to the budget under discussion is as follows: If, in the forthcoming government proposal, insurance companies had to take responsibility for the insurance they had promised in selling claims, it would only have a positive impact on the economy of society. If the compensation is paid fairly and without delay, people would be provided with income and access to rehabilitation in a timely manner, enabling the remaining working capacity to be maintained. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, whether the reform of the insurance doctor's system has looked not only at fairness but also at financial aspects in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u128	Mr President! On 14 April, the Director-General of THL recommended the use of masks in a public place. The Chief of Staff of the STM rejected this view and stated, in a direct quote: ‘His position does not have the right to private thinking. “ In May I listened to the same interview as Mr Heinonen, where the Director-General of the THL pointed out that THL knew that masks were useful, but the Ministry of Health has held back the recommendation to make a mask for itself. In response to the journalist’s question on the social sensitivity to this issue, he replied: ‘I believe that this has been the subject of a debate between the opposition and the government. And it may be that there are aspects here that are not just scientific and knowledge-based.” — that is to say, political considerations. Did STM stop you from giving a mask recommendation? Did you steer?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u129	Mr President! Yesterday, in the A-talk debate, I had a nice discussion with representatives of the opposition, Purra and Zyskowicz, and Iiris Suomela from the Greens. We received positive feedback that we had a constructive debate on these issues. Now I have heard ten people from the United States speak out loud about this masculine issue. I get the feeling that, in general, now that Finland has quite well managed this issue of corona, there is nothing more to be thought of than trying to run things around in order to get some kind of opposition to this issue. We are dealing with the largest section of the 64 billion budget, 17.5 billion, the largest because I am counting a slightly larger part of the central government budget of basic services, VM. I think we should talk about the big structures in social welfare and health care and the most important issue, about the maintenance of basic services, which Minister Risikko raised ten years ago,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u130	Mr President! Yes, Mr Kiuru, your verbatim is well known, but let us stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u131	Mr President! I would like to raise one very important issue from next year's budget and an important reform of almost a million people, i.e. a reform of the law on customer payments. In Finland, people must be able to afford sick and it cannot be that more than 450,000 social welfare and health care fees will end up in enforcement in a year. Under no circumstances can a person be in debt because of his illness. This reform will bring relief, especially to older people, to families with a great deal of suffering and to families with children. We've been talking about mental health here, and that's what we should be talking about. However, I would like to raise one of the people's diseases on which the debate in this Chamber is too little to hear — I do not think I have heard any talk about this during the whole budget reading — namely people who are addicted to drugs and substance abuse services. Each of us knows someone who has this disease. I would therefore like to see further attention paid to this. When you treat these people,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u132	Mr President! The reform of social security and the safeguarding of basic services, as Mr Lindén said, is indeed the most important issue of this debate. However, I would also like to thank you for the few lines in the 795 page book we are talking about today, which has not yet been mentioned: thank you for the extra money to finance shelters. 23.5 million are being proposed for the operation of shelters, which is actually an increase of 1 million, thanks for that. I myself, for example, work on the Government of the Lahti Mother and Child Homes and I recognise that we are doing a lot of services, even basic services — such as helping intoxicant mothers, supporting nursing, separating them — that are currently not done by municipal or public authorities, and I therefore feel that it is very important that the future of organisations is safeguarded. Then I would like to highlight this extension of the FSHS to polytechnic students from the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u133	Mr President, ärade talman! I mina hemtrakter har dessvärre coronan haft ganska stor framfart på senare tid. Många har insjuknat, lyckligtvis inte så farligt, men många har också försatts i karantän. Där har man gjort många åtgärder för att nu åtgärda det ox, och nu gäller det att ha tålamod, hålla avstånd och också använda masker för den delen. Jag tänker inte gå djupare in på den discussionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u134	Mr President! We know that this is a corona budget, this is not a pension budget. However, we have non-budgeted pension funds, of which the Government Programme has the following entry: ‘Initiate a three-fold survey on howto improve the smallest number of occupational pensions within the earnings-related pension scheme’. These pension funds grew to a record 218 billion at the beginning of this year. In fact, they are on a world scale, proportional to national product, the world's largest statutory pension funds, and Tela's calculations show that 65% of these funds are existing pension beneficiaries' assets. They grew by a record EUR 22 billion in 2019. We know that these funds have fallen because of this year's interest rate, but the average increase over the past 25 years has been EUR 8 billion. The folded index is the reason that these funds have risen and we have a statutory arrangement that impoverishs pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u135	Mr President! Yes, the need for masks was already known in the spring. 1.4. I asked a written question in which, among other things, I told what kind of information came from the world, Asia and China. You can read it, Mr Government, and see what it has to say. But it's time to move on. Now is the time to move forward, and, government ministers, you could now tell everyone that you are making a firm recommendation: the mask must be, and it will be of benefit to everyone. Now we have to go out there and stress that people are wearing that mask and stop that twisting around here because it's not going anywhere. Let's act like grown-ups from now on. Everyone wear masks — give such a firm recommendation from the box. But, ladies and gentlemen, the social reform: I would like to know how it is now. You're still going to negotiate the war. The message of municipal decision-makers and municipal managers is that the funding base is inadequate. In this corona crisis, social funding is insufficient. How do you do?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u136	Mr President! As far as this mask is concerned, I would like to ask what was actually the reason why the mask was not recommended. Ultimately, this is important in terms of how many infections and even deaths could have been avoided if masks had been recommended and used. Mr President! When, among other things, Mr Lindén has asked for a question and a debate on major issues, I would like to ask about the social reform to the extent that this financial formula will change. For example, there is a very worrying situation in my hometown of Espoo. We are moving half the taxes into the province and regions, but we are left with debts and yet with growth investments. This means that in practice we have to go to the hat every time we are going to build new schools, new roads and so on. Are you going to change this financing model so that big cities will also be able to grow?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u137	Mr President! We have discussed very important issues here: the use of masks, vaccines, tests, coronas and so on. But I personally think that we are now dealing with this state budget for next year, and I have listened with interest to this debate for over an hour whether there are any opposition proposals here. I have noticed that things have been raised from me very, very important, like this support for informal care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u140	Mr President! Elderly people deserve high-quality and valuable care and care when their own powers run out. The problems and shortcomings in the care of the elderly have been on the agenda for a long time; they have been mentioned for years. The reform of the Old Age Services Act has provided for a long-awaited higher level of care, which will gradually enter into force and will also proceed at the beginning of next year — thanks to the government and Parliament for submitting a proposal for the adoption of the law. However, the dimensions alone are not enough, we know that, but they must also be monitored, and self-control alone is not enough; it has been proven. I'd like to ask you: What is the current status of this issue of supervision of care for the elderly? Is there room for further development and improvement? In addition to this, attention must also be directed to the home care of the elderly as well as to informal care, as this is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u141	Mr President! There has been talk of mental health, elderly people and care in general — important things and important people. In my own speech, I would like to emphasise the wider working conditions of the medical staff, the health care staff and the overall working conditions in which they are currently working, and also the compensation they receive for this work. This is too little money, it takes a lot of money, and there are so many people who are taking a break. By the end of this reign, how are we supposed to attract another 4,000 new nurses and people even to this sector if we are not doing our best now to make these people do their job better? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u142	Mr President! Minister Kiuru, I would like to ask you: does the government consider the development of services to be taken home in its budget, which will save money on medical expenses? An example of this is the Combilance pilot project in our home country — yours and ours — with a partner, a paramedic and a geriatric nurse, and this will be savings when you do not have to transport but can be taken care of at home. Did you note in the budget that this activity will continue? And the second question: do you consider and secure adequate and equitable resources in the medical districts to dismantle the treatment queues that have been aggravated by the corona? According to my information, for example, four plastic surgeons and three general surgeons operate in Hyvinkää hospital, while only one plastic surgeon operates in the Satakunta Sata hospital of a similar size.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u143	Mr President! We are discussing next year's budget, and the interest rate plays a very important part in it. Last spring 330 people died in Finland. Most of them were elderly people who were caught by the corona. How we deal with corona is essential in terms of how many deaths there are, how much the economy suffers. The Coalition Party submitted an initiative on the obligation to use facial masks in April-May, and international publications have advocated the use of facial masks as well as the WHO. At the moment, it is only a matter of time before the corona passes on to the elderly. Last spring, the government gave the impression that facial masks are useless. This is an important issue; it has led people astray.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u144	Mr President! Thank you to the government for the continuation of the Intermediary Farmer project in support of farmers' survival. I really need it. Thank you, too, for the government's willingness to secure the conditions for municipalities to secure social and health services. Every other Finn experiences a mental disorder during his or her life. Sickness always affects people close to them, and they are at risk of getting sick themselves. More extensive studies will show how much mental health problems increased during the corona. There's a lot of mental illness they're not talking about. Unspokenness, secrecy, and difficulty in seeking help can slow down or even hinder it. Families are left alone. This also applies to family carers who have been very hard on themselves. I ask the ministers: how can we change the climate of attitude?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u145	Mr President! We have thousands and tens of thousands of children and young people in Finland who live in early childhood education and school so that they have different needs for support or other psychosocial challenges. Their lives often find it difficult even to believe in themselves, for our society is still very strongly built up so that it focuses more on finding and correcting their challenges. I would now like to express my thanks to the Government for its willingness to support the resource- and strength-centredness of young people by, among other things, wanting to establish the Ohjaamo project Onni, for the focus of strength and resources is what our children and young people need, but especially this society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u146	Mr President! Minister Kiuru, would you be able to give a clear answer to the House now that almost every group — almost every group — has been asked how it is possible for you to speak in the spring so that the explanations clearly stated that masks are useless, and now we are using masks here. What was your statement based on at the time because the internationally respected magazine The Lancet had reported in his study that masks were useful? This is what the government's science panel told us. You had the information, didn't you? Why did you say otherwise? Then on the subject of social security reform: It was prepared without municipalities, without organisations, without service providers in secret. There is now a huge round of opinions which is coming up against criticism. Even government ministers have resigned from its financing model; key city delegates have said that this model cannot go. I am talking in particular about the financing model.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u147	Mr President! The consultation of the Sote reform has now taken place in municipalities. I am not going to comment now on whether or not there is going to be a war, but on one point where the municipalities can make the statement they want. In the proposal for a reform of the social economy, the curators and psychologists of the education services would be transferred to the social welfare districts. I believe that this would undermine, among other things, the preventive activities of education, such as local knowledge and the lack of bullying at school. I would like to ask you, Minister: if most of the municipalities, including my home, Salo, are opposed to a proposal for social welfare reform, whereby the curators and psychologists of the education services are transferred to the social welfare regions, and want these important workers to remain in the municipalities themselves under the authority of the civil society and not to drown in the bureaucracy of a large unit, do you take these statements seriously or do they make any difference? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u148	Mr President! Numerous organisations work with the most vulnerable and needy people, such as children, the elderly, minorities, people with mental health problems, the long-term sick and the long-term unemployed. With this abnormal corona period, the need for aid has not been reduced, but, on the contrary, the importance of organisations has increased further. I would like to thank the government for securing the funding and operation of organisations, communities and foundations in next year's budget. The profits of the bet have decreased with a strong impact on the activities of the above-mentioned entities. It is estimated that gambling revenues will continue to be lower. I was concerned earlier about the way in which the opportunity for these actors to act will be secured in the future, but I thank Minister Pekos for his previous reply. You relieved me of my concerns, but I'm sure there's a lot of other people's.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u149	Mr President! The treatment of interest has been very successful, and that is not the criticism now, but the fact that the people have been told whether the interest rate measures have ultimately been based on strong political guidance rather than on a knowledge base, even though the people have been given an understanding of the other. Markku Tervahauta, Director General of the THL, states in his interview: ‘The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which is our director, has the responsibility to issue theserecommendations,in particular in this case they have wanted to hold to it. We look forward to the response of the Ministry once further clarification has been made.” He goes on to say: ‘I have the impression that these movements are not related to the treatment of epidemics, but are of a social nature. This may be politicised in some way, for example. There may be aspects here that are not just scientific or knowledge-based.’ Why didn't you just tell me, Minister Kiuru?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u150	Mr President! I will return to this matter of family carers. Half of them are of working age, and now Minister Kiuru was mainly responsible for this old-age service. I would have asked why this funding for family care has been cut to half of the last term of government, especially in the case of family carers who have supported their families through this difficult period of interest. Then I would have asked you about this arrival. In other words, this extensive study of organisational grants should be carried out so that the money will continue to be sufficient for these very important legal projects in the area of public interest. And in this context it is good to note that the third sector is the third sector, and if there is an activity that should be financed from the public sector, which is justified, then it should be well within the budget. Then I would have asked when Mr Slunga-Poutsalo and I presented insurance detectives from Kela, such as the insurance investigators,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u151	Mr President! In response to Mr Heinose, who is still in the Chamber: the people have not been lied to. All solutions have been based on public authorities’ assessments in every situation, and the solutions have been based on the interest rate situation that has been the case at the moment. As far as these expert assessments are concerned, it has been pointed out, among other things, that the WHO would have recommended a mask for all in the spring. That is not true. Even on 5 June, WHO recommended that medical masks should be saved primarily for health workers, so this is not the case. And as far as this overall situation is concerned, we all know that Finland has been a prime success in the spring. Is this masculine criticism now that we want it now?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u152	Mr President! It's not that this hasn't worked out. We have commended the success of the treatment of the corona. Had this been done, as has already been the case in May in more than 50 countries in the world which had issued a recommendation, a mandatory recommendation on the use of masks, if even that recommendation had been made in Finland, how many infections could have been avoided, possibly even deaths? So it is a question of why the Finnish people were not told the truth and it was said that masks should be used — use everything you get — and admitted that the government failed to acquire masks. The first EU procurement was not involved, so let us be frank that we do not have an answer to this now, but use it if you can. That's what this is all about. There has been a complete misinformation, and in this regard, among other things, the Director-General of THL Markku Tervahauta stated quite unequivocally in an interview with Marja Sannika,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u153	Mr President! It has been said here that false information has been given, but perhaps more than that we have acted on the existing information. Reference has been made to the THL, for example, and I welcome the fact that the government has always been based on an expert and epidemiological perspective,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u156	Mr President! Creepy wish: focus on the future. This is where Mr Heinonen has already very well pointed out what this is all about, but I want to focus on the future, and the future is quite close. Today at 24 p.m., restaurants and bars around Finland will stop giving. Minister Kiuru, the restaurant sector has approached you in an open letter as an emergency call for its own sector. I would like to see a legislative initiative on this now, signed by many here, that this emergency call can now be answered by allowing restaurants to sell out alcohol, now that restrictions are being added to this sector. Many have supported it here, including the Greens. Other government parties, including the city centre, have understanding. In particular, this right to sell out small breweries, the right to sell at a distance which is already possible for other EU countries to apply to Finland, but not for Finns — could you now do it again?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u157	Mr President! The effects of the future social welfare reform on, for example, Uusimaa are very severe. The transfer of funding from this country in New Zealand is in danger, inter alia, of: HUS special assignment, care and jobs. What, Minister, will you answer this? Even today, hundreds of nurses work with these masks. This is really hot and hard to keep, and those nurses are at the limit of doing that job there. They are the key factor in how we survive the corona so that the corona does not spread to hospitals, elderly care, nursing homes, home care, and they must be supported and encouraged. I have raised this issue here right from the start of the corona crisis to the administrators of the corona, and I would see that this is the best employment policy. Yesterday we heard that: There are nurses coming to Finland from the Philippines, probably without language skills, but still competent, and they are now being made to do the definition of the old-age service law, i.e. the nurse’s work, probably the nursing assistant’s duties. What do you say to this? They have a high level of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u158	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone knows that the ward is extremely important when it is needed. However, it has now happened that many small wards have had to stop and have been wiped out by the municipalities because they have been seen not to be necessary or not to have had money for them. Well, they're necessary anyway. It always happens that if you have a relative there to care for and your spouse is in another place, the spouse is not able to visit the family and it is not clear where they put him. The nurse calls all over the cities, in different cities, when it is not necessarily suitable for her own municipality — she has to call where she can and where she can and can't fit there. It's an impossible migration rupee. And many older people in the last few years — they have had such surveys, studies — are in a lot of places, in fact, where they have to move from one place to another. Is there something planned for this? It doesn't make any sense to move around in the last few years of people's lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u159	Mr. Speaker! Yes, this mask communication must be discussed, because it is important how these recommendations are followed in the first place. Unfortunately, with this mixed communication, the government has undermined public confidence in them. And now, Minister Kiuru, it would be important for you, in plain language, to explain to the public what is now the scientific evidence and other justification for the use of these masks. Yesterday, Prime Minister Marin said that they were not introduced because they did not exist, now you say that because there was a lack of scientific evidence. Which one's real? Then I ask: In 2017, antidiabetics were transferred to the lower special benefit category, which increased the carelessness and drug costs of low income diabetics.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u160	Mr President! A safe childhood belongs to every child, and when we take care of children and young people, we always take care of the future. And when we take care of families and parents, we always help children too, for children’s childhood takes place in adult lives. But parenting isn't easy. And it is certainly not easy if your childhood has been broken or if you have to struggle now with major financial problems, mental health problems or substance abuse problems. High-quality maternity and child health clinics and early support from the time of the waiting and the baby are invaluable. For example, these investments to support substance abuse mothers are important now, thanks to the government. The truth is, however, that many families are still lacking timely and adequate help. We have not yet managed to secure the possibility of being a child for every child. So I ask the ministers: how do we ensure that every child gets the best possible and, above all, a safe start in life now also in the midst of this major crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u161	Mr President! One bus driver was asked when he retired how it could be that for 45 years you were driving and not a single accident. He said he'd always looked from the windshield and not back from the rear-view mirror. It's the same for me in this mask thing. We survived the spring very well — very well — without strong mask recommendations. Why look back now? If we want clarity on communication, at least in this Chamber, we do not want this grind so that it confuses people's heads even more with whether or not it makes sense. Let the Government work on this. We do not have the possibility to pack masks according to the legislation, but recommendations have come from there and let us try to keep it clear. When there have been no comments in this debate on this very text of the yellow book itself, which is quite extensive, I think that this reform of the social media has also been well mentioned. And it's good to have been raised, it's important for the future. As far as funding is concerned, it can only be based on that need as a general rule. And I'd like to wish you well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u162	Mr President! It is confusing that the ministers and now the representatives of the government parties should be informed that we are not looking back now. It is precisely the question of whether the citizens and Parliament can count on this crisis management.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u165	Mr President! At first I thought I would stop talking about these masks, but I am only talking now because Minister Kiuru, for example, in his closing speech, can concentrate on this 17 billion package and do not have to go through these issues again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u168	Mr President! Mr Lindén described very well that decisions are taken in time, but I think that crisis management will be assessed according to the outcome of the crisis and are currently excellent in Finland. And it seems that the coalition opposition is very satisfied with the social and health part of the budget, because it is not discussing this budget, but everything else. But, in fact, when I first asked for this speech, the reason was because Mr Salmon spoke, when perhaps three speakers then intervened in this training and corona. I think it is extremely important that we get education to work under the conditions of the corona, and in that sense it has been wise to make these decisions locally about when we are in close proximity education and when we are in remote education. He called for cooperation at ministerial level with the Ministry of Education. This is certainly the case, and this cooperation is needed, but what is even more important is that educational institutions cooperate with local authorities, hospital districts and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u169	Mr President! There the other way of the hall would want us to shut up, but we cannot do so. We will be asking about this mask scandal for so long that either there is divorce or there is an understandable explanation for the serious mistakes that have been made. And you can be reproached for the fact that the government was clearly not up to date last spring and clearly failed badly in these masquerades when it was nobody's responsibility. In addition to that, you said that you were well prepared. Well, that wasn't true either. You said that in hospitals there are many masks — the Nurses’ Association says that this was not the case. You told me it might even hurt. You cannot give such explanations if you yourself have not had those masks ordered. And if a recommendation had been made, the companies would have done the fabric masks, as they have done afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u170	Mr President! During the interest-rate crisis, the government has given good support to municipalities and hospital districts, thanks for that. The budget is so great, I'm talking to you about masks. As far as this masquerade, which has come from the opposition, is concerned, the Prime Minister has said openly in the spring that masks can be used, but there is no study of the benefits or disadvantages of the masks and that surgical mouth and nose pads would be useful, but there are not enough for the whole population and what is needed to be reserved primarily for health care because they were supplied with risk groups. It seems that this masquerade and attack planned at the coalition office is now only intended to create mistrust, but the crisis is still on, and now we need such patriotic cocooning to continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u173	And then let's go to the ministers. Secretary Bakonen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u174	Mr President! Mr Ollikainen raised the issue here, and I replied in that first round, but I will continue to say that no safe and effective vaccine is yet available, but that all vaccine treatments are still in the development and testing phase, but we continue to work with these vaccines internationally. Mr Multala raised these copyright compensations, and indeed, as the representative well described it, copyright compensations are currently an income that can be adjusted in terms of unemployment benefit, that is to say, they can cut unemployment benefit, and it is understandable that this situation is not perceived as fair, because they do not increase unemployment benefit accordingly. This issue is currently being examined by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, inter alia, in terms of the cost of this change. However, the Government Programme has also set out the reform of the reconciliation of unemployment security, and it is also possible to look at this issue here, but, as I have said, this practical implementation will be examined and then policy-oriented. To Mr Ronkainen, the government's proposal for insurance doctors, which you have so much awaited, is coming to Parliament at this time, during October, and indeed, as you yourself said, unfortunately this proposal has been delayed because of the interest rate, but it is coming. Mr Kiljunen, you asked about small occupational pensions, and with regard to the registration of occupational pensions under EUR 1400, this situation and the possibility of such major reforms within the pension system seems very challenging. These pension funds are also intended to safeguard pensions for future generations, and there is no so-called extra money in the funds, but these funds are needed to cover existing pension liabilities. However, the pension poverty you referred to in your speech is something that will continue to require new action, and these must take into account both benefits and services. I would like to say to Mr Rantanen that the STEA, together with the organisations it assists, is constantly developing their impact assessments and also supports their capacity to improve their cost-effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u175	Mr President! Listening to this debate, it is so great that we are very much in agreement that this time the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Finnish Government have managed to make budget proposals for next year, which so widely enjoy the confidence of Parliament in this referral debate. I have certainly not had such a positive debate on the budget in 13 years. For that I am very grateful that we see this big picture in this same way. That's why we've spent a lot of time on this mask issue. For my part, I say that, as the Prime Minister said, and as the Minister has said here, these masks that belong to his field of activity — where they come from — the fact that we knew all spring, each of us, that we need to get more of these masks all the time. The need was obvious. In that respect, I am surprised at this debate. Is there a different view of this fact as well? I'm assuming it doesn't. Regarding the way in which the masks were carried out after the WHO Recommendation of 5.6., WHO stated on 5.6. that in areas where corona has been severely spread and where it is difficult to keep distance, the issue of masks should be assessed. We assessed this issue in Finland and found that Finland was already in the custodial phase, that these infections had fallen, and we have recommendations and restrictions on the epidemiological situation, mirroring and also mirroring the necessity. Moreover, as the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have said, the availability of these masks had been a big issue for Parliament all spring. We need to understand that in that part of June, people would not have actually followed this recommendation for masks. And it must also be borne in mind that the voice of reason is also involved in political debate. We do things on a performance, we do things on the basis of the evidence of what kind of performances we will have at the table. Mr President! There were some very important issues here that I do not want to go behind this other debate. First of all, Keto-Huovinen asked about these customs dogs. In my opinion, this is a very important issue, which you have raised before. In the same way, the chairman of the City Board here also raised the example of Vantaa the other week, and you also spoke about this today. I personally think that this is an opportunity for us, and now I think that it is a very positive line for Customs to move in the direction that you are proposing here to make this legislation through this experiment. It's exactly the challenge that's there. But I do not want to comment any further on the property of another minister, but we strongly support this in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and that is why this experiment has been started for customs dogs. The therapy guarantee, mental health issues and the care guarantee are the same entity that is very important to Parliament, regardless of the party. Mr Filatov said this earlier, encouraged by many other representatives, and both Mr Kiljunen and Mr Al-Taee talked about coping with the challenges of social and health care for people of this age. Yes, the fact is that we should be able to do much more before these problems materialise and then we will just pay the mechanical bill that is actually in that category at the moment, as Mr Filatov said. In this respect, we assume that these mental health services will be repaired with a really big turn in the framework of everything the government has to put into this project. There are many different things starting here, including investing in the mental health of older people from the point of view of functional ability, and money was already being put into it in an additional amending budget. Mr Koponen asked, in the same way as a few other representatives, how the costs of municipalities in this corona period would be incurred. We have assured you that these interest rate costs will be reimbursed, and that is an important message for the field. I also think it was important that Mr Sarkkinen raised this supervisory aspect of the elderly and the future challenges of care for the elderly as a whole, which I have already mentioned. And what was also important was this, what a representative Huru raised the issue of the services to be taken home as a new project related to the Combilance project in our home country. The idea here is to go home to serve, to take services, not to traditional home care, but then to combine the skills of the various professionals. This is the kind of opening we need when we are about to go through the second phase of the old-age service law. As far as the war is concerned, we are now doing our best to get it to the finish line. We are also making changes to this funding, which has been very much talked about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u176	When Minister Mikkonen has not yet arrived, a few speeches will be taken. — Mr Multala, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u177	Mr President! Thank you for the surprising speech. I thank you for this positive signal that Minister Kiuru gave to this question about dogs. In my view, however, the message may not have been quite so clear in the past from the point of view of the STM, and I hope that Minister Kiuru will now make a strong contribution to this, because this is an important issue. Dogs could significantly reduce these testing costs and, on the other hand, speed up the normal functioning of people who are healthy. One question which Minister Kiuru unfortunately failed to answer was this situation in restaurants. The emergency call for restaurants has been heard in many newspapers today. The restaurant business is in trouble. Opening restrictions are understandable, but unfortunately this means that when half of the places are still in place, turnover in practice is falling and it is impossible to keep all that labour at work. It's a big tragedy in many families. Can you please?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u178	Mr President! For the third time, for the sake of certainty, I would like to ask about this matter for family carers: would there be anything to do about it, because that funding has actually been cut to half now in your time and the situation in the corona era has really been such that the carers are in trouble, are exhausted and have supported both themselves and their loved ones over this difficult period, and there is a need for support there. So I would like to ask: could it perhaps be possible to reconsider this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u179	Then Minister Kiuru, a concise answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u180	As Mr Rantanen has said here, we are making changes to informal care regarding the second phase reform of the Act on services for the elderly, and in this respect, of course, it concerns older people, but there are family carers elsewhere. But the fact that we are making changes to the informal care of the government programme, unfortunately, has to be said that we do not have the money for more extensive changes, such as the reform of the tax system. I know that your group has been present in the Chamber before, but there is no money for such a change, and I regret that this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u181	I would like to say that this debate and the debate on this section at the moment are ending and moving forward. — Minister Mikkonen, presentation of the environmental management section, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u182	Mr President! Happy Friday, everybody! In the role of the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister for Climate Change, I will also briefly raise the climate measures included in the budget. I hope that, after my speech, we will have an active debate, because there is not too much talk in this Chamber about the biodiversity and climate crisis. This year and the corona virus have radically changed the world. The Ark isn't the same, not even in this room. However, not all the interest rate has changed. It has not reversed mankind’s greatest threats: the progressive climate crisis and the alarming impoverishment of nature. Therefore, in the budget debate, the government has decided on a number of concrete steps towards carbon neutral Finland and Finland that safeguards biodiversity. We are bringing much-needed momentum to reduce emissions and supporting the recovery of nature. At the same time, we decided to take care of fair change and the future prospects of Finnish business by supporting the transition to a green economy with a billion-dollar investment from the EU recovery package. The funding of nature conservation will also be at historically high levels in the coming year. The increase of EUR 100 million compared to the beginning of the Government’s term will continue — and not without cause, as the decline of biodiversity in Finland has continued to accelerate. However, the message of researchers has been encouraging: we have the opportunity to reverse the trend, and for this we need additional funding. With extra money, we have launched, among other things, the Helmi environmental programme, which protects and restores bogs, restores bird wetlands and traditional biotopes. In fact, the protection of the bogs has now taken off in this reign, and we have already protected more than 3,000 hectares of values. Nature conservation is also promoted by high-quality hiking trails. National parks are very popular, and now during the corona period the number of visitors has increased by up to 2.5 times. With strengthened nature conservation funding, Metsähallitus’ nature services have rapidly closed the renovation debt for nature reserves and national parks by refurbishing, among other things, tallwood, lava and fireplaces. The objective is therefore that we should be able to reduce the correction debt for nature conservation areas during this government term so that, as a whole, we will be able to pay the correction debt in full during this government term. We also invest in water protection. A total of EUR 15 million has been earmarked for the next period for the water protection improvement programme, which includes the application of plaster and water treatment projects in the Archipelago Sea catchment area. Well, then the questions of the built environment. Despite the interest rate, construction has remained at a good level and the Ministry of Finance has estimated that housing construction, for example, will decrease only slightly this year. However, the outlook for housing construction is deteriorating. As far as housing construction is concerned, the draft budget is therefore stimulating. The interest subsidy is set at EUR 1.8 billion, which makes it possible to build between 9000 and 10000 homes. Just yesterday we signed agreements with the old MAL regions, and negotiations are under way with the new regions. The implementation and support of MALs will stimulate the economy and create a sustainable and low carbon urban structure. The MAL agreement includes start-up grants for normal ARA rental housing production in the Helsinki region EUR 10000 per dwelling and EUR 3000 in the Tampere, Turku and Oulu regions. In these MAL contracts, you can still get an additional EUR 5000 per dwelling when you build from wood. Outside the MAL areas, the wood allowance is also EUR 2000. I consider this incentive to wood construction to be important, which is conducive both to Finnish wood construction know-how and to reducing the carbon footprint of construction. EUR 40 million is invested in energy efficiency compensation for dwellings. Energy renovations are an excellent climate-friendly means of economic recovery. A total of EUR 10 million is proposed for the abandonment of oil in residential buildings. This simple support model has helped owners of oil-fired small houses to upgrade their heating systems. The Government has taken significant steps towards carbon-neutral Finland in 2035 in drawing up a new budget. I would like to highlight some of the most important decisions. The reduction in the use of peat for energy is now beginning to take place. The tax on peat is almost doubled and the tax on other fossil fuels is also increased. Climate work and electrification in industry will be supported by lowering the electricity tax to the minimum level in the EU from the beginning of next year, and fossil support, the industrial energy tax refund system, will be abolished. We are abandoning emissions trading compensation and replacing it with new support for climate action. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u183	Thank you. — Now this is what we are going to do. The debatants you want, please ask for answers from your own places. We've got less than half an hour to talk now. Then, after the large committee meeting, the debate will continue and at the latest 15.30 p.m. we will continue on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u184	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the presentation. In short, as a forest professional, I am very happy that there will be significant additional investment in wood construction and that arc will continue. We must remember that for every wooden building we build in this country, we also do long-term climate work. After all, now that I think this slightly deliberate decision on peat has been taken, Finland has been faced with a situation in which millions of cubic metres of timber and fibrewood will be burned in power plants next winter. I have already seen, with my own eyes, in the transportation of wood that timber goes into factories that does not belong there, and that is what I am extremely concerned about. For my part, I have worked to put an end to this harmful phenomenon, but it requires the cooperation of the government parties — and I also hope for the opposition — to put an end to this harmful phenomenon. [Sebastian Tynkyse’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u185	Mr President! It is important, but also absolutely necessary, for the government to invest heavily in strengthening biodiversity despite the difficult economic situation. Thank you, Minister Mikkos. Last year we raised the funding of nature conservation by EUR 100 million to a record high level, and the same level will remain this year. The Helmi environmental programme has proved to be a success. Restoration and protection of both bogs and other endangered habitats has been seized in various parts of Finland without delay. The Metso programme has proved to be an effective tool for protecting the valuable forests of Southern Finland on a voluntary basis. It is wonderful that forest owners have a desire to protect their precious forests. Mr President! Municipalities also play an important role in strengthening biodiversity. So I ask Minister Mikkos: how will municipalities be supported in nature work next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u186	Mr President! Climate action also provides concrete support for employment. Finns have long-term expertise and experience in taking environmental values into account in manufacturing. This is our absolute strength, which must be exploited in every way now that capital is looking for carbon-free alternatives. The global market is huge and it is also open to Finns. We need a sustainable green industry in Finland that secures jobs and security of supply. In the future, Finnish industry as a whole, which is environmentally friendly and geared towards clean technology, can have a very bright path. Minister Mikkonen, do you see that in the future we could significantly increase industry in Finland through these very things?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u187	Mr President! Indeed, in the past, we have already heard talk of this dismantling of peat, whose environmental objectives are little ideological, because now it really does cause us to import very much longer into combustion goods that are transferred with fossil fuels. I would also like to see money invested in the environment sector to eliminate unnecessary bureaucratic issues, because in many cases they may seem to be doing the environment services, but in reality the truth is quite different, because it does not always work the same way in practice. It would be a good time to address many of the solutions in the recycling sector and these licensing practices and others, because it is easy to move goods from one place to another just because the papers are [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u188	Mr President! The state of the Baltic Sea remains worrying, and this government will continue, thanks to this, the water protection project launched by the previous government and, for example, the gypsum treatment of fields. However, according to the latest reports by HELCOM, the region of south-west Finland is one of the worst hotspots in the whole Baltic Sea, i.e. in practice the areas from which nutrients flow to the Baltic Sea in significant quantities. We would have liked to see solutions in the budget debate aimed specifically at this situation in the Archipelago Sea and in this situation in south-west Finland, so that the money that is now laudably in the budget is targeted at this particular region. Mr Mikkonen, is it your intention to target impressive actions in order to improve the situation in the Archipelago Sea as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u189	Mr President! As Minister Mikkonen said in his own speech, the prospects for housing construction are deteriorating and should be invested in improving them, and it is therefore important that the state is also involved in this. Home energy renovations are really necessary. The exchange of oil heating, for example, for geothermal heat and air heat pumps or pellets, is important and is also subject to the allocation of euros. Then Mr Hoskonen has already raised the issue of wood construction. It is important that the state also supports wood construction throughout Finland — not only in the capital region and the MAL region, but also in the whole of Finland. And I would actually like to ask Minister Mikkos whether the MAL contract system should not be developed throughout Finland, including in provincial centres around Finland. And when the Minister himself raised this nature tourism, it must be said that, yes, during the corona period, especially during the past summer, nature tourism has grown even more.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u190	Mr President! The Finnish species threat assessment was published in 2019. There are more than two and a half thousand endangered species. The share of endangered species has increased compared with the previous assessment made in 2010. The trend shows that the endangered development of our country's species has not been halted. The main factors contributing to the threat are changes in forest habitats, which are the primary cause of the threat to 733 species. The most common are forest regeneration and management measures, the decline in old forests and large trees and decay trees. The second most common reason for the threat of species is the overgrowth of open habitats. It has affected the threat of 639 species. Climate change affects the threat of fell species in particular. It's great that we've got more nature conservation funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u191	Mr President! Work to combat the climate crisis and the loss of nature is one of the most important tasks of this government and was the guiding principle when this period began a year ago. Well, now the corona has pointed out that, first of all, rapid and effective measures can actually be taken when you want to, but secondly, because global emissions have decreased, the corona has also highlighted the need to do a lot of work to ensure that we really are in safe waters in relation to the climate crisis. Well, with regard to biodiversity, the most important decision is indeed this historic increase, 100 million, which is now being made for next year — thanks for that. And further action is needed on climate action, and the Left Alliance has at least committed itself to looking for further action. And I'd like to ask the climate minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u192	Irade the Talman! Klimat- och biodiversitetskrisen är ett factum. Vi måste bli bättre på att kärna över vår biodiversitet. När vi gör ingrepp måste vi behålla vår heletssyn. När satsningar med budgetmedel görs är det viktigt att medlen koordineras så att det ger största öjliga effekt. Det är bra att vi gör satsningar både i biodiversitets- och klimatfrågan, men vi måste alltid komma ihåg att saker och ting heger skinp. Naturen, vår milö, är en complicerad pearls.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u193	Mr President! Promoting wood construction is a good and welcome example of sustainable climate work, and I would like to thank you for that. But then, Minister, I would like to highlight the fact that you tweeted in a positive tone in the past week about the Elo-rebel movement, and I ask you: do you see no problem there? Would it not also have been responsible in this tweet to clearly condemn illegal means even if the objectives were to be shared? [Left: What does it have to do with the budget?]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u196	Mr President! Sanna Marin's Government's objective of carbon neutral Finland by 2035 is progressing in a socially, economically and ecologically just way, and that is good. This requires planning and solutions for both short-term and forward-looking actions. New green growth will be sought through the Renewable Industry Strategy, which will be completed by 2021. In the world, capital is moving at an accelerating pace towards carbon-free solutions, and we must seize every new opportunity not only from the point of view of the climate but also from the point of view of employment. As far as housing policy is concerned, Minister, I would like to thank you for bringing the authorisation for interest subsidies to an adequate level, and so the objective of the government programme can be achieved. However, the long-term development of housing policy cannot be achieved by electoral term, and the eight-year development programme is therefore more than necessary. I would like to support the determined progress of its work, and I hope that the reply will also include some additional information from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u197	Mr President! Finland can be bigger in its climate actions and this has been much criticised, but I could give you one example. The Finnish company is currently able to capture protein from the atmosphere, carbon dioxide, and this can replace feed, for example, and it would no longer have to be made in the fields, but protein could be fed to animals through this route and thus reduce CO2 emissions. Such Finnish solutions should now be taken to the world and, if they are to be taken to the world, they must also be able to develop and innovate even further. How do you feel, Minister, that this budget will now solve this RD deficit, which we have, which should be raised to 4% of GDP, so that Finland will be able to export the best climate technology and earn euros in this country even more strongly?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u198	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the construction of wood and for supporting it. It is to be welcomed, as is the national park and the removal of the correction debt during this government term. Then the negative here would be mainly these additional funding, the expenditure increases. They have increased the number of man-years. And in what way: are these permanent or temporary? And if they're temporary, what are you going to do to make sure of it? These mentioned shutting down the use of peat energy and fuel tax increases contribute to eliminating the predictability that our industry needs to invest in Finland. How do you ensure that these investments are actually brought here: the expansion of Vapo's Ilomants plant or the Kotka bioprojects? They're billion-dollar investments. How do you get them here? And are you prepared, if necessary, to compromise over-respective climate goals?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u199	Mr President! First of all, I too would like to join in these thanks for this promotion of wood construction. It is a very sensible form of construction under Finnish conditions. Problems: There is a crying shortage of heavy traffic breaks in the metropolitan area. And despite the explanations, the problem has only worsened in recent years. Even on the basis of the legislation, there should be breaks. The MAL agreement for land use, housing and transport for the years 20-31 includes an indication of the planning of two breakpoints, and the agreement concerns the Helsinki region, or 14 municipalities. Implementation should start during the contract period, no later than 23. However, municipalities have little desire to plan these areas for breakpoints. Minister, how are you going to resolve this closed node with the municipalities about heavy traffic breaks, for example, near ports? And has this matter been taken into account in the budget in any way?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u200	Mr President! We are committed to ambitious climate action. There is now a second budget for this government, but unfortunately there is still no sign of the most impressive measures recommended by researchers, so there is a risk that Finland will not be in the line of action that the Government Programme has committed itself to in relation to climate action. For example, with regard to this peat, the government did, in fact, physically move the decision-making process forward with the creation of this floor price model, which did not yet receive any decisions or a clear plan on how to support entrepreneurs in the peat sector in this transition. So what are you going to do? Government parties have also talked about environmentally harmful subsidies. In this budget too, it seems that these subsidies will continue to increase. Minister, because of them
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u201	Mr President! According to a report by the Finnish Environment Agency, the ecological status of Finland’s surface waters is good. 87% of our lakes and 68% of them are in good or excellent condition. The state of the Gulf of Finland has improved, but it has not reached a good state. So action really needs to be taken. The Government's objective is to improve the status of the waters. The aim is to achieve a good state of the Baltic Sea and other waters. The Government will continue its programme to improve water protection by supporting the implementation of effective measures in the field of water and marine management. One example of these is the gypsum treatment of fields in the Archipelago Sea basin. What kind of practical measures are planned or planned for deeper inland areas, i.e. lakes, for example on the agricultural side?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u202	Mr President! The EU Commission will publish an updated forestry strategy next spring. The European Parliament's report this week has taken into account the aspects of the bioeconomy and sustainable forest management. In addition to this, climate, biodiversity and forest protection have also been properly listed. However, the Green Meps representing Finland voted against the report. The forest industry accounts for over 20 per cent of Finland's exports. Sustainable forest management promotes carbon sequestration, and forests become products that replace plastics and fossil raw materials through the forest industry and its innovations. Forestry plays an important role in the fight against climate change and in the transition to a fossil-free society. Minister, I do not think it is inappropriate to ask whether you consider the report adopted by the European Parliament to be balanced and to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u203	Mr President, ärade Herr Talman! As a result of the interest crisis, Finnish housing patterns have changed somewhat — as uncertainty in society grows, so the importance of housing policy is also emphasised. Housing has been found to be of growing and central importance to people’s personal well-being, and the rural environment or summer cottage is increasingly a dream of Finns, for example. At the same time, there is a demand for sustainable and responsible construction. It is on the rise, although there is room for improvement. In Finland, however, we have learned how to recycle. For example, much more concrete is being recycled than in the past. We've been talking about wood construction, and we've been investing in it. With regard to changing housing needs, I would ask the Minister how these potential changing needs have been taken into account in the budget and, above all, in future land use.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u204	I will give one more reply, then the Minister, and then we will have to stop.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u205	Mr President! It is very important for the State to provide significant support for the construction of affordable homes, and when employment measures have been announced here, it is also very important to be able to support the construction of affordable homes and to support the renovation of homes. President! It is to be welcomed that these MAL agreements were brought forward. For example, as a Tampere, I think it is important that non-capital regions can now also receive start-up grants. Of course, I hope in the future that this figure, 3000, will be more ambitious, namely that it has sometimes been a basic level of EUR 5000. President! Finally, I would like to say that it is very important that this government, in its programme, wishes to return once again to a strong development line in the suburbs. That's the right thing to do. It promotes safe everyday life for people, citizens, and, best of all, through the development of suburbs we can also channel resources
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u206	Thank you for your comments. Here the construction of wood rose strongly in many speeches, and indeed, it is certainly a goal that we share together. There are also some answers to housing. Representative Taimela asked about housing policy programming. It is very important that we can now make a long-term housing policy when housing policy, if that requires us to be able to look far enough. What is important is this affordable housing, of course, which is also what these MAL agreements want to safeguard. Mr Ronkainen asked about the MAL agreement and the related details. The idea is that now that the municipalities and the state have reached agreements, these agreements will be monitored and seen as taking measures at their own level. After all, the MAL agreements are now expanding to the region of Lahti, Jyväskylä and Kuopio, and then we will have experience of how they operate in these slightly smaller regions than these existing agreements have been. There was a lot of talk about the green transition in industry, or about how much it also gives us industry the chance to invest in carbon neutrality. Industry itself made these carbon-neutral road maps in the summer, and now, for example, a strong effort is going to be made to promote the objectives of this green transition. Of course, industry has a role to play, and also this minimum calculation of the electricity tax is one way of promoting the electrification of industry and thereby reducing emissions. Tki investments also play a major role in making new solutions and creating solutions that will not only reduce our own footprint but also increase our handprint to the world. These stimulus funds are also intended to increase funding for R & D. And we will set up a climate fund, which will then have a specific role to play in helping and financing these new innovations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u207	Thank you. — Now, unfortunately, we have to suspend the plenary session. We'll continue at exactly 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u208	So, this is how Parliament's plenary session will continue, and the debate on the section of the Ministry of the Environment will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u209	Mr President! During the corona period, many Finns have found nature, outdoor activities, nature sports, hunting and fishing again. Nature tourism is also on the rise. Only a few percent of our natural currents are left when our rivers and streams are filled with dams and other obstacles. As a result of human activity, almost all Finnish migratory fish species are endangered. However, Finland is the most watery country in the world and we could have the best fishing waters in the world as a tourist asset. The Helmi environmental programme has well taken into account the renovation of small waters and coastal nature, which will provide a little more small free-flowing waters for fish — thanks for that. However, I would like to ask the Minister: when the Government Programme outlines the protection of biodiversity, has the funding of migratory fish and the return of Finnish fishing waters been taken into account more broadly?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u210	Mr President! The government is driving Finland into a carbon-neutral society at a speed that you do not want to find in the world. In view of Finland’s northern conditions and long distances, being in the front line of the climate struggle becomes even more absurd for Finland. The Government's actions will make Finland a carbon-neutral society, but it will be done at the cost of driving industry and jobs out of Finland. There will be no emissions when there is no production or jobs to go to. Peat boilers are shut down in Finland so that other countries under Chinese leadership can increase their emissions. At the same time, it will be said goodbye to thousands of jobs, energy self-sufficiency and security of supply. We are a country that needs exports, industry, energy and opportunities to move. In this economic situation, measures should be taken to help the Finnish economy get back on its feet. Instead, the government and its climate goals will beat Finland to its knees and turn off the lights from the last factory.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u211	Mr President! I really want further decisions to be taken on climate action, but at the same time it is true that a lot of concrete work was also being done on next year, and that was very important and thank you for that. When we talk about next year's economy and climate action, of course, these future amending budgets will have a very important role to play in deciding on future EU funds for recovery. I think that we now have a very critical place to do this resuscitation right and at the same time we can speed up the fair transition that we are facing in any case. Well, now that these decisions come quite quickly, I would like to ask the Minister whether there are any studies to be carried out to ensure that these EU recovery funds will then become as useful as possible from the point of view of climate work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u212	Mr President! Climate action is certainly still waiting for its events, but two things: this fair transition to the fund and national parks. I myself come from Northern Ostrobothnia, where the migration from peat is much earlier and is indeed on the move, and now we have the opportunity to obtain from this fair transfer fund this money from the EU, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs has estimated its recovery to over EUR 300 million and the regional impact of peat to over EUR 200 million. Where are the decisions now so that we can get the potential of this fair transition fund here for regional effects? Second point: National Parks. Could the Minister tell us what the timetable is, an open process, so that all regions wishing to present their national parks are known,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u213	Mr President! In this second part of the debate, I would like to highlight the positive aspects of the 2021 budget for water protection, the increase in nature conservation appropriations and the acceleration of wood construction. They are important and I say that they are also very much to be expected in the regions. Then, with regard to this much - talked - about peat decision, which was also mentioned in the first debat, I feel that this government decision on peat is quite balanced and in line with the government’s programme. At the same time, the decision is also sustainable in terms of security of supply and the Finnish heating system based on district heat, and operators now have time to adapt to this change. As far as Mr Talvitie's question is concerned, Minister, I would like to end this debate for myself on a theme such as this, which I hope will also be linked to the weekend by some of us Members of Parliament. National parks, such as Teijo National Park in my region, play a major role in the well-being of people, and now I ask: will this government set up a new national park during this parliamentary term, and if,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u214	Mr President! It is good that the long-term work on water bodies and the protection of the Baltic Sea will continue. In next year's budget, some EUR 8 million will be allocated to the promotion of water and the protection of the Baltic Sea. This appropriation is intended to cover, inter alia, the Water Efficiency Programme, the inventory of sites of importance for underwater marine biodiversity and ecosystem services, the Velmu programme, the promotion of groundwater and the protection of small waters. The Baltic Sea is a low-water inland sea, surrounded by waste water from about 85 million people and nutrients from large agricultural areas. Enriching nutrients and toxins have accumulated in the base layers of the Baltic Sea. How can we reduce the nutrient load of the sea more effectively? Does this budget provide enough additional means to do so, and how will the resources of this enhancement programme be allocated?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u215	Irade the Talman! By lowering the energy tax on industry or the electricity tax, efforts are being made to promote the electrification of industry. However, construction is largely in the opposite direction. With the energy certificate, a house heated with zero-emission electricity will be punished 2.4 times as much as a building heated with peat or coal, connected to district heat. This in no way makes sense if, otherwise, we want to electrify society and move and build in a long-term way so that we do not now lock ourselves in solutions that may not be so sensible in 10 or 20 years' time. So I'd like to ask the minister: I know that this carbon footprint assessment will take four to five years. Would it not now also be appropriate to check the energy certificate in order to obtain a neutral playing field that would make sense today to build houses that function in an appropriate way for 10, 20 or 30 years?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u216	President! The production and use of biogas is linked to several administrative sectors and the production and use of biogas contributes to many positive things. The nutrient cycle of agriculture is becoming more efficient and emissions from transport are decreasing. Biogas replaces fossil fuels. However, improving the operating conditions in the biogas sector requires support and a strong social climate. The budget of both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Employment includes, thank you for that, a kind of seed money to get things moving. The profitability of the biogas sector could be improved, above all by reducing investment costs. The relatively high investment costs are slow, especially for small installations. Minister, how do you see the development of the use of biogas when you follow it from your influential place?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u217	Mr President! The situation in the Baltic Sea has emerged prominently in this debate, and that is a good thing, but mainly from the point of view of eutrophication. There is another problem at the bottom of the Baltic Sea, namely that a lot of ammunition, both conventional and chemical, has been sunk there since World War II. The problem is that these shell cases become fragile, but, on the other hand, lifting them up is very difficult. That's where these cocoons can disintegrate and then the poisons spread around. Some of these ammunition may actually be safer at the bottom and become harmless there, but it is obvious that these leaks with certain substances and in certain places cause harm. Now, on a parliamentary level, a great deal of attention has been paid to this. For example, I myself am at this conference in the Baltic Sea Parliament, but I would like to ask the Minister whether there has been any attention to this in relation to the debate on eutrophication between governments, particularly in the near future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u218	Mr President! I would like to ask about subsidies that are harmful to the environment, which were also discussed exactly one year ago in the budget debate. Many government parties have spoken out strongly before the elections that it is precisely these environmentally harmful subsidies that should be reduced. Well, in last year's proposal for this year and in the present proposal for next year, it seems that these environmentally harmful subsidies will continue to increase from 3.6 billion to 3.8 billion. I would now like to ask the Minister for clarification and confirmation. The Ministry has slightly changed the method of recording, which made this comparison difficult, but if the figures add up, then the comparison to last year can be made. And from this it seems that environmentally harmful subsidies are still on the increase. The Minister will be happy to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u219	Mr President! Admittedly, it would be interesting to hear from the assembly what are the environmentally harmful subsidies they have mentioned, which they are prepared to cut. In the meantime. It is excellent that Metso funding will receive more and that the Helmi programme will be launched. The Helmi programme protects and restores birdwaters and wetlands, and the management of traditional environments and forested habitats is also the objective. Metso funding and Metso programme started about 13 years ago by Minister Tiilikainen and Anttila with good cooperation and good innovation. So I ask about this Helmi programme that once the theme of the Metso programme has been that the landowners have been very involved from the outset, and that is why it has been successful, is this Helmi programme:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u220	Mr President! I would have asked the Minister for two things. Firstly, here in your budget book on gender equality, it is stated that differences in the eating habits of women and men should be clarified. What are you looking for with this? New eating instructions for men or women? And then the second issue is environmental protection and reduction of emissions. For example, Helsinki is now building Malmi Airport, which, with its pole and pre-building, causes huge emissions — while the city has declared a climate emergency. I would have asked whether there is a situation here where we pose elsewhere on this climate issue, but elsewhere we close our eyes to these emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u221	Mr President! It is very important that the Finnish nature is taken care of, and I do not accept the idea that the use of forests is the destruction of forests. That is what this debate is much like in this Chamber: when forests are managed and cut, it is seen in the eyes of many as the destruction of forests. Not at all. Finnish forestry is of such a high standard that all forest owners, the majority of them, have completed appropriate courses and training and the entire forest staff has completed all the necessary qualifications. So there's no problem with that. The problem, then, is this kind of cornered thinking, in which one group in this Chamber also prefers themselves and states that this is destruction, even if it is not. We have in our hands the world’s most unique great treasure, a carbon sink that does not stop but grows. We must continue to grow it. I have spoken many times about increasing the carbon sink, and I say once again, Mr President, that with the ash fertiliser we can increase the growth of peatland forests so that we can get all the carbon sinks in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u223	Mr President! Yesterday, the European Parliament adopted a proposal to increase the 2030 emission reduction target to 60%. This is a big step forward for the climate. A change in sustainable society and economy is also taking place here in Finland, and the energy decisions of the budget line will contribute in this direction. However, there is still a gap of more than 10 megatonnes to be reached, and further action is therefore needed. The Ministry of the Environment is doing important work to reduce the carbon footprint of buildings, including by supporting energy renovations, the abandonment of oil heating and the construction of wood, which has been mentioned several times here. We consume unsustainable natural resources, but as a country of high competence, Finland is well placed to lead the circular economy. So I ask the Minister: what do you see today as the most promising advances in the circular economy, and how can we best promote the circular economy in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u224	Mr President! Indeed, the government has decided in its programme to allow tolls to be introduced in urban areas. Yesterday I tried to draw the government's attention to road toll planning in the Helsinki region, and now that it has taken place in the MAL process, which you, Minister Mikkonen, are responsible for, perhaps you are better acquainted with these plans than your colleague. This is a very recent study of the MAL process, which has shown that the cost of driving in the middle-income economy will increase by an average of between EUR 700 and EUR 800 per year and by around EUR 1000 per year. Do you agree with the introduction of such a charge, such a duty on employment and its preparation? Your colleague Harakka said that the introduction of congestion charges in the Helsinki region in the light of new information would in practice lead to an extremely low emission reduction. I ask you as Minister for Climate Change: in the light of this information, should this whole method not be abandoned and the government programme updated in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u225	Mr President! While I was preparing for the meeting of the large committee, there was no opportunity to hear the Minister’s speech, but I would be happy to hear a little more from these national parks — but now that the article has been very much funded — and of course the extension of the Tiilikkajärvi National Park is of particular interest, and the Minister has pointed out that this is happening. But all in all, now that we are about to receive additional funding — which is good, because this corona period has made the Finns understand how great nature we have — perhaps I would like to hear more about what things can now be done with this funding. The second point I draw attention to here in the budget book. It says here: ‘The conditions for older people living at home are being promoted. The supply of housing solutions that meet the needs of older people will be increased’—other than cohabitation. On the other hand, I know that living in rural areas is not enough for many of them to have these old housing companies that fall into the hands of the banks and no longer get any loans from the banks for repairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u226	Mr. Speaker! Certainly all of us in this Chamber want to slow down, even halt the progress of climate change, if that is possible, but when we talk about sustainable development, then it will always include social and economic sustainability in addition to its sustainable environmental development, and it is very important that we now have this vision of a carbon-neutral welfare society, that it is carried out in socially just ways. It is not possible to make decisions that would impose unreasonable burdens on people on low and middle incomes and make their daily lives more difficult. Social justice keeps the city centre involved in all climate action. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment now that, while many Finns still have a dream of living in a detached house, how will it be ensured that it is cleaner, with less emissions? And, President, I would also like to hear from the Minister in his draft from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u227	Mr President! Since the Minister did not raise any questions in connection with the previous debate, I would like to ask again the question of these increases in expenditure on the increase of hundreds of man-years. You mentioned that these are not permanent but temporary. How do you ensure that they are fixed-term? And when we do not yet know all the effects of the interest rate if the economy is going to stall more: how are you going to ensure the competitiveness of our companies and, if necessary, are you prepared to compromise your ambitious climate goals?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u228	Mr President! This corona spring has brought people close to nature and camping into the everyday life of so many people. The study tells us what many of us know: nature helps to recover from stress and improve mood, lower blood pressure, and even the heart rate. However, accessibility matters. Studies show that visits to nature are reduced when the nature area is further away from home. Here in the capital region, a bus can reach the national park, but quite few other places can. So I ask the Minister: how can we improve the accessibility of these national parks? On the other hand, I would like to raise the issue of the old forests of the state. The old forests owned by Metsähallitus are not safe at the moment, for example, the 250-year-old primeval forest has just been cut in Kuhmo. How can we steer?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u229	I will give two more replies, then the Minister's reply, and then we will move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u230	Mr President! After the wars, hydroelectric power plants have been built in Finland, and it has been right to do so in the time that energy has been needed for industry. However, we are already getting much more energy from elsewhere. That is why we must now strongly support the dismantling of small plants. We must make endangered salmon and trout stocks spawn naturally in our rivers. The Hiitola River is a good example of how to do this, or Imatra has a city brook. Now the almost extinct saima salmon strain has been revived, and this species persisted in a tiny ditch in the backs of the residential area for nearly 80 years. Now it has the conditions under which it can live in its own environment and spawn on the gravel bottom. With these platforms I would like to ask the Minister: how do you intend to increase fishing tourism and inland cruises in Saimaa, while respecting nature, so that entrepreneurs can try there and, at the same time, tourists do not consume a valuable environment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u231	Mr President! Mr Rantanen was just talking about diet, and I shall continue a little in the direction of school. In 1943, Finland was the first country in the world to provide school food free of charge. The law is still one of the best in the world, but it can, of course, be further developed. It is important to use Finnish clean food. In Finland, however, between 120 and 160 million kg of food is thrown into the garbage every year. Could some kind of carrot mechanism be made to reduce the loss of school food to encourage students to pay attention to realistic greenness, the importance of their own everyday choices? This would be concrete environmental education. My question is: does the Minister intend to emphasise food waste in these projects?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u232	Then Minister Mikkonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u233	Thank you, Mr President. A lot of good questions came up again. I thought maybe I'd pick up on the themes that we didn't have much time to deal with in the first half. One of the things that has soared here is this protection of biodiversity, the high funding associated with it. The Helmi project restores weakened habitats and also protects bogs. Then, of course, there is this Metso Forest Protection Programme, which has been going on for a long time, but with its additional funding we hope to finally achieve those ambitious goals. In addition, we have also made funds available to protect forests in the north, because this Metso programme specifically concerns southern forests. Here the Helmi programme, because it also restores and restores nature, also creates jobs on a regional basis. And, for example, when Mrs Huru asked about these man-years of work, some of these man-years are linked to these restoration, rehabilitation or the renovation of the infrastructure of national parks, which brings jobs to the region when they are built, of course indirectly also brings them to the jobs of nature tourism. Representative Elo asked how to involve municipalities. This year we launched this kind of Kunta-Helmen, ie, the municipalities could suggest such items as what should be restored and restored in their territory. It was very popular, and we have decided that next year too this municipality-Helmi will be available for the municipalities. National parks raised many questions. They are the pearls of our nature, and we intend to develop a national park network during this reign. The idea is to set up two new national parks, that's what I'm going to do. In addition to national parks, local nature and its significance also emerged. Of course, the municipalities have a really big role to play here, but the Ministry of the Environment has now also wanted to support municipalities by launching this kind of funding, a grant that allows municipalities to renovate their local recreation sites. This will also bring employment to the region. They then asked about these environmentally harmful subsidies. Indeed, the VM has changed it a little differently in the budget book now, but I can say that for the first time we have actually managed to reduce the amount of environmentally harmful subsidies that has been mentioned for a long time, but unfortunately those intentions have always been intended in the past. Now we are putting an end to emissions trading compensation, the last payment will be in 21, we have reduced the tax rate on paraffinic diesel, and then this energy tax refund on energy intensive industries, the so-called energy cutter, will be phased out. Then there was the question of these migratory fish. It is mainly on the side of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, there is money to remove these migration barriers, and it is very important concrete nature work, which also plays an important role in the regional economy as a result of fishing tourism.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u234	And that concludes the debate in this context, and let us move on to the list of speakers. — — — — First of all, Mr Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u235	Mr President! Over the past few weeks, government ranks have included demands for social responsibility and patriotism when it has touched others except the government itself. It is right to ask what kind of patriotism and social responsibility can be found in this budget. The funding base for the government programme of the Marin government is gone. The necessary structural reforms have not been implemented. Debt is taken over debt without a long-term plan to reduce debt, increase employment and competitiveness, or improve the purchasing power of citizens. The result is massive negotiations and a mass exodus of investors. Huge indebtedness and expansion of the public sector means a sharp increase in taxes in the future, resulting in an economic death kiss as the purchasing power of the citizens continues to shrink. Reducing purchasing power leads to wage increases, which means less competitiveness. Deterioration of competitiveness combined with weak demand from low purchasing power means a difficult situation for companies. Instead of strangling taxes, the government should loosen its grip and let the citizens decide what the proceeds generated by their activity will be used to promote consumption and natural recovery. An honest politician would also say that the public sector needs to be reduced. Reducing the public sector does not mean ending priorities, such as police, schools or health care. It means project mobilization, secondary issues and, for example, financing over-the-counter stupid projects around the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u238	Mr President! I would like to ask you, Mr Centre Party of Finland, whether you support this yellow budget book that you are currently facing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u249	Mr President! In the 2021 budget, an additional EUR 3.5 billion is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The level of funding remains roughly the same as in last year's proposal. However, it is noted that this was nearly 620 million more than in the 2019 budget. This includes an increase of EUR 300 million per year in the Government Programme to reduce the correction debt and, in spring 2020, a major climate recovery of more than EUR 1.3 billion agreed in the fourth amending budget, for public transport, for fairway projects and for urban development through the MAL agreement. In the fourth amending budget for 2020, the Government has already proposed an increase of EUR 18 million in measures to promote walking and cycling, and an increase of EUR 25 million will now be proposed in this budget to promote walking and cycling. With this budget, only a few new development projects will be launched. In this respect, the government acted in a forward-looking way, and this year the June amending budget mobilised a significant amount of new transport projects totalling over 1.3 billion. It is now important to implement and finance these projects that have already been decided upon. With regard to this amending budget, I welcome the fact that the new projects presented in the budget currently under discussion are divided into different modes of transport, water, rail and road. Extending the closures of the Saimaa Canal is one of the most important projects to support and promote the vitality, industry and tourism of Eastern Finland. If the locks were not extended, the traffic on the channel would be cut to a large extent by the end of the current fleet. The extension of the locks will allow a modern, efficient and larger fleet to operate on the canal, which will improve the cost-effectiveness of freight and reduce unit-specific freight emissions. The project also has a significant employment impact, estimated at between 1000 and 1200 person-years. The project will implement government programme declarations on the development of inland waterway transport as part of the action to reduce emissions from transport. It is also important to provide funding for the first phase of improving the Tampere-Jyväskylä track. The project aims to improve the conditions for business and employment, taking into account the closure of the UPM Jämsä Kaipola plant. In the budget discussed last autumn, the link received planning money to streamline traffic and improve the mediation capacity. It is already possible to implement rapid measures to promote the smooth operation of train traffic, improve track transmission capacity and promote life-cycle maintenance of the track. The sum to be invested in the middle lane of the pass-by lane of Highway 4 is also necessary, since without this, the road plan of the project would expire in 2021 and the plan could no longer be extended. The aim of the project is to improve traffic safety and smoother traffic. Mr President! There was certainly hope in many regions that their own transport infrastructure projects could be promoted through this budget. I also saw it in Kymenlaakso. I admit that I am annoyed that the most important transport project in Kymenlaakso, highway 15 between Kotka and Kouvola, was not financed. This section of the road is included in the regulation on the main routes and their service level. It is justifiable to expect that, between Kotka and Kouvola, the repair of Highway 15 would be urgently allocated an investment budget for the early start of road construction. The investment ensures the flow of goods by residents, Finnish exports, industry and trade, as well as the requirements for securing social and health services for a safe and functional main route. Although there was no money in this budget for this highway 15 project, I will continue to work hard as a Member of Parliament for South-East Finland to take forward this top 15 project.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u250	Mr President! The section of the Ministry of the Environment itself is, of course, challenging and much to talk about, but some of my comments are still in the role of chairman of the committee. Firstly, there has been a lot of discussion about whether we have enough carbon sinks. One speech called for an increase of around 10 million tonnes of carbon sequestration. I have said many times that we do not want to lose money from the state to build carbon sinks that are of little use, because if we go artificially to some expensive ones, it will only cost us a year or two, and usually it will only last a year or so. But when we increase the growth of forests, the 15 million mots, or 15 million tonnes of carbon, can be tied with sensible fertilization of peatland forests, rational management of forests, and when the forests are fertilized with ash, there will be no nutrient leaching. The cost of the state is almost zero because the forest owner pays for most of it, and the operating environment of the forest industry is safeguarded because they know that there will also be more fibrewood in the future. And everyone knows that in the development of the forest it also promises that after that there will also be a lot of logs. Then, at a later age, the development phase of the forest promises good construction trees. In the Government budget proposal, wood construction is one important target. The support for wood-based houses initiated by these MAL agreements is of the utmost importance. The EUR 5000 start-up grant per apartment in the MAL area and elsewhere, EUR 2000 is a good starting shot at building wooden houses. I do not see much sense in it — I see it as even a little discriminatory — that the home outside the MAL area is less valuable than the one built in the MAL area. In this country we must achieve equality, so that everyone's home that is built out of wood — whether in Kauniainen or Kirkkonummi or Utsjoki or Ilomants — is as valuable a home for his builder and residents as ever and binds up just as much coal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u255	Mr President! The second wave of interest has highlighted significant shortcomings in dealing with the corona crisis. The government did not avail itself of the possibility of organising the management of the epidemic in such a way that it would be consistent, effective and effective. A quieter summer should have been fully used to prepare for the second wave and to draw up a clear plan. In the case of restaurants, for example, it would have been possible to prepare the conditions for a much more targeted use of local, restaurant-type or even restaurant-specific restrictions instead of mass restrictions. The restaurant sector is, for a reason, largely dissatisfied with the government's actions. The lack of preparation of the government costs Finnish society millions of euros and, at its worst, thousands of jobs. Government communication regarding the management of the corona crisis has been confusing and has created uncertainty. The government is on the line, but over and over again Minister Kiuru surprises us with his different interpretations. One illustrative example of this was the government's negotiation of travel restrictions, where the government first outlined the matter differently from what Minister Kiuru wanted, and then Kiuru walked over the government's policy through the actions of his ministry. Another serious example of the confusion of government communication and preparation was the Minister's Lintilä's statements that he or the Ministry of Employment and the Economy do not have any information as to what type of restriction measures are being prepared in the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. However, the most glaring example is my forced quarantine presented by Minister Kiuru at the press conference to all those who came to Finland. Later it became clear that there was no such possibility under the law. Mr President! Among other things, WHO, the European Agency for Disease Control, the US Public Health Agency, the German Academy of Sciences and a number of high-level international medical publications have recommended the importance of facial masks in the fight against generalised infectious disease. This line also included the Director General of THL Markku Tervahauta, who recommended the use of masks in the interview on 14 April. The expert approach was immediately knocked out of the ministry as the head of the THL as his own thinking. The political direction experienced by the experts rightly rose in the public debate. 6.5. the government took a decision in principle on mask screening. In the light of the information we received yesterday, there are serious grounds for suspecting that this report has been politically directed and aimed at misleading the Finns. Why did ministers or senior officials not say directly that there was no recommendation for a mask because there were not enough masks? Instead, the importance of masks was overlooked, and even misleading guidance was given on the role of masking in combating the corona epidemic. It is extremely serious for the minister to bypass expert views if they do not fit in with the leadership of the ministry. The communication of government and senior officials about the problems of masks or even their harmful effects is likely to undermine people’s confidence in the benefits of wearing masks. If the facts had been recognised as early as spring, we would have avoided the fact that some citizens still think that the use of masks is harmful. We have consistently supported the government in dealing with the corona crisis. We have wanted Finland to succeed as well as possible. It is in the interests of Finland and Finns. However, the preparation for the second wave, the unclear communication of the government and, in particular, Minister Kiuru, and the incriminating information about politically guided mask policies that came yesterday make this difficult. It is indisputable that the majority of these confidence-depleting problems will return to the activities of Minister Kiuru. Mr President! The interest crisis may continue for a long time. To manage it successfully, Parliament and the Finnish people must be able to rely firmly on the minister of responsibility for crisis management. Now that is not the case. In the light of what has happened, Finns can no longer rely on the Minister of Responsibility, Mr Kiuru, and the ministry under his leadership, to make their policies in the light of the best information and to give them honest arguments in all situations. I therefore suggest that Parliament states that Krista Kiuru, Minister of Family and Basic Service, responsible for the management of the corona crisis, does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u256	I note that the debate on this issue will also be allowed on this motion of censure against Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u257	Mr President! Mr Laiho raised an extremely serious question. Then what do we know for sure? The CEO of THL Markku Tervahauta recommended the use of masks in his interview on April 14th. To be precise, he said: ‘I recommend that fabric masks be used to protect others from possible infection. If we want to be responsible adult people, we can use this measure to slow down the spread.” 6.5. the government decided that STM would study data on the use of masks, and in time this study of STM ended up underestimating the importance of masks. On May 15, Tervahaauda was asked again why THL did not make a recommendation on masking. He replied as follows: ‘The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which is responsible for issuing suchrecommendations,has wanted to keep it that way. We look forward to how the Ministry will react after further clarifications have been made.” In the same interview, Mr Tervahaauda was asked why the instructions have not yet been given. He continued his reply: ‘I also have a link to the fact that these movements are not associated with the treatment of epidemics, but are of a social nature. This may be politicised in some way, for example. There may be aspects here that are not just scientific or knowledge-based.’ —In other words, ‘societal sensitivity’, ‘not based on Since the beginning of June, ministers in front of the Statutory House remained in their previous position, despite the fact that the scientific panel set up by the Government itself in its own-initiative report had already stated at that point that the use of masks could prevent the spread of infections. Nevertheless, Minister Kiuru explained his point of view with varying views of the experts on 3.6. According to Kiuru, the primary tools to prevent the epidemic were to avoid contact and good hand hygiene instead of masks. He also stated: ‘The scientific panel explained that the ‘face mask’recommendation, which was based on some factors,could be considered as a means of considering,but the government considered and discussed the matter long and worryingly and came to a conclusion that there was no general recommendation on the use of facial masks.’ Finally, at the beginning of August the ship turned, and on August 1, the Council of State issued a recommendation for a mask. In spring and June, the Government, under the leadership of Minister Kiuru, justified the lack of a masked recommendation for the benefits of masks with lack of scientific evidence. Now that we are all instructed to wear masks, it is reported that the reason for spring was not the whole truth, but because masks were not available.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u260	Congressman Mykkänen, when you walk in the hall, you have to wear a mask.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u261	Mr President! Now we are living in the crucial moments that determine whether future generations will also be able to breathe clean air and enjoy the diverse nature of our planet. So we are not just deciding on matters that will affect the next few years; we are deciding on something much bigger. We decide on the right of future generations to clean nature, healthy air and well-being — well-being. The SDP is strongly committed to these themes. Now, however, the debate has had special features. There's a budget debate going on. The aim of the historical effort is to respond to the crisis caused by the interest rate, and, in the same situation, the vote of no confidence will take place on the basis of masks, [Sebastian Tynkyse’s interlude] Ladies and gentlemen! Did the moped get out of hand? [of the Socialist Group: Yes, bad!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u263	Mr President! Now I feel like there's gonna be some other conversation going on at the interlude.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u270	Mr President! There is cat-tailing here, so I will focus on the main category of the Ministry of the Environment. The biggest environmental challenge in the Baltic Sea is probably the phosphorus load. The Archipelago Sea is a pearl of the Baltic Sea and we must ensure that it is preserved for future generations. The best solution to bind phosphorus into the field for use by plants has proved to be plaster. Studies show that up to 50% of the load and erosion can be reduced by plaster, which also reduces the leaching of organic carbon. The Ministry of the Environment has also looked into the matter last year, and some appropriations have also been set aside for next year. Kipsi is a cost-effective circular economy solution to one of our key environmental challenges. However, the dissemination of plaster is a temporary solution and should be repeated over the years. For example, at Naantali, the Ely Centre of Varsinais-Suomi, Meriaura transports and distributes gypsum. This does not entail any costs for the farmer. This is definitely the most concrete way of protecting water at the moment and must therefore continue. I believe that a long-term plan must be made at the Ministry of the Environment, as the Unique Archipelago Sea calls for, so that after next year too, water protection can be made more effective and sufficient resources can be made available for it to make up the Archipelago Sea and to protect it long-term. I think it is important for the Ministry of the Environment to be involved in the planning of maritime security of supply. In order to safeguard domestic ownership of shipping, it is possible to emphasise self-sufficiency, energy consumption and more energy-efficient transport, which is a national advantage in terms of climate and increased competition. This is based on a modern circular economy based on sustainable development, without forgetting the bioeconomy. I also hope that the Ministry of the Environment will examine the area of Neste's special product refinery Naantali, so that it may be possible to continue its activities. The cost of refurbishment of the refinery area is likely to be so high that it could reverse both Neste and the State’s ownership control head in order to continue operating. I hope that the Minister will take action because this is important not only for jobs but also for the environment. Finally, I would like to remind the audience of the Animal Week. This year's theme is a cat. Finland’s largest animal welfare organisation is running a campaign to collect names for an appeal to reform the Animal Protection Act. The aim is to obtain compulsory identification and registration of cats. However, while you are watching those cat videos at home, at the same time I ask everyone to sign the cat - crisis petition so that the summer cat problem can be resolved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u271	Mr President! Mr Häkkänen here earlier in the day asked whether the government could be trusted to manage this corona crisis. Mr Laiho and Mr Mykkänen came to a conclusion which we heard a moment ago and which shows distrust for the government, especially for Minister Kiuru. This is a very special conversation. In fact, we are in a real crisis situation in Finland at the moment, and we end up with this kind of stomach fall. Some might even call this desertion. When it comes to management, effective management, what is it, Mr President, to measure it? Does not management be measured by what results we have achieved? Now we are talking about the spring setting, about the measures taken in the spring, and the results speak for themselves. In Finland, this corona crisis has perhaps been best managed among all countries in the world
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u274	Mr President! It is easy to continue the speech after Mr Malmi and Mr Kiljunen. At this moment we are dealing with the state budget for the next year, which is, you can say, the most important document that is being discussed annually in this Chamber, in this house, and this year, if ever, this document will be extremely important. Not only do we respond at the same time to the mega challenges facing Finland — turning Finland into carbon neutral, employment and ensuring that the Finnish people are united and social justice — but there is also a massive package to combat the corona virus. And what has been the plot of this debate: it has been that, as a rule, Parliament has supported the measures contained in this budget book to combat the interest rate. The State promises that all the activities needed in the field will be carried out. It is therefore a bit surprising that, when we have such an exceptionally important document on the table and in an extremely important situation, the Coalition Party wishes to make the debate on Parliament's budget a mask debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u291	Mr President! So the last member of the Assembly left the Chamber and did not remain to listen to this debate which they themselves initiated — which they feel is so important that they do not even remain to listen to the dialogue that emerges from their own debate initiative. That's a very special way of doing things. This is what they say: Right times, right manners. In other words, the Coalition Party expresses its distrust to the Minister, who has worked without saving himself in this very difficult international corona crisis to protect all of us Finns. And the results have been indisputable, so the results have been indisputable. Finland has done well in international comparisons in this very difficult situation, when viewed statistically. We have saved lives. What is more valuable than human life? And we have managed to keep the load on intensive care capacity to a minimum. So we are prepared, we have built, we have anticipated and we have done all we can to save lives. In addition to this, we have billions of dollars in support of the various actors in society. We have supported companies in this very difficult situation, which, admittedly, has affected many companies in a very, very sad way. In this respect, the government has assumed its social responsibility. We have supported municipalities in order to enable them to cope with the important basic services that people need in this difficult time of crisis in particular. And people have been supported — people have been supported — in order for people to survive, the most vulnerable. This is the thanks that the Assembly has now given to the Minister, who has certainly achieved very good results here. In English it is said: Don’t shoot the messenger. And now the delegation is putting its motion of censure on the Minister, who has based his own views on the information he has examined and on the views of the authorities, the authorities themselves, on how to proceed in this crisis. In spring and summer, there was a shortage of CE-marked masks specifically intended for the use of social welfare and health care personnel, although there were civil masks available. The mask study commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health did not assess the adequacy of masks but sought to determine the usefulness of masking in such a viral disease, based on studies in the scientific literature review. The WHO changed its line on June 5. Prior to that, WHO did not recommend the widespread use of masks for asymptomatic people. And even after June 5, WHO recommended that medical masks should be saved primarily for health workers. Recommendations will always be made in relation to the epidemiological situation. At the beginning of June, the incidence of corona decreased in Finland. This is a fact. In August, when the THL Recommendation was issued, the first signs of an increase in incidence and the need for further action were seen. These are facts. The fact that the Coalition Party, as it were, suggests that the minister, a little as if he had not deliberately wanted to protect his evil evil, Finns, is a completely absurd claim. What view do the people of the United States have of their colleagues here in Parliament? When such claims are made, what kind of human opinion do the people of the United States have at all? Mr President! O times, o manners.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u292	Mr President! I understand that there is a lack of confidence in Minister Kiuru's actions. Today we have read on the front page of the People of Satakunta what entrepreneurs think, what citizens think about it. It may be recalled here that on 1 April Mr Juvonen has already asked questions about masks and, at that point, expressed the views of international experts. The recommendation would have been justified. But this Friday surprise of the Coalition Party at this point seems a bit like a long shot.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u298	Mr President! I feel that as a person with a background elsewhere, it is quite desirable that I bring my experience to this game. I am very much following the statistics on the interest rate in Iraq and the whole of it. The Iraqis began to wear masks, masks of various kinds — the ones imported from China and sewn themselves and everything possible, much of the same masks that are used in hospitals, even in the operating rooms. Korona continued to grow, and people began to die on the streets. It was found very quickly that there are so many mistakes in handling masks. Even now, every citizen can think of how many times his hands have been disinfected before he has taken a new mask in his hand, and if he has taken a mask from a common place, whether the area has been properly disinfected, whether the package has been disinfected, whether there has been someone in that airspace just before this person has come, who has had a corona infection. Even though masks have been taken from it, the infection may have come. So let’s look at the studies carried out by experts on the use of masks — many of them over the years. One is from Finland in 2012, and it stated that masks against influenza, for example, may not be a good enough protection. Later, the WHO carried out its own research on the subject, and it also considered that the study had not been carried out in depth enough to directly rely on this information and also on us, Finland, to formulate similar guidelines. This is where we started our own research on the subject. Throughout this period, measures have been taken to protect people’s lives, and this has really been successful. In countries where masks have been used for years against various epidemics and disadvantages, they may not have done as well as in Finland. This is my background against the relativeity of this masquerade and masculine and the treatment of corona in general. In this country, one can honestly say that each of us can say and boast abroad that in Finland the treatment of the corona has been successful and that the minister who has been responsible for it has supervised long nights to ensure that the Finns are safe. It would be only fair and reasonable sometimes — even in those corridors, if this place is not the place where it could be done, then even in the corridors — to jerk, first to disinfect your hands and then to jerk, Krista Kiurua from the sleeve and say, "Thank you, well gone". Then to this budget and, in general, to how this corona has been managed throughout this year. When companies were in distress, billions were put there — immediately additional budgets came for this. When the organizations needed help because they themselves offered help, help was found. When various actors — private entrepreneurs and restaurants — needed help, help was found. Individual people through income support, poor people, received help. Throughout the way, people have been forklifted and searched for those who, in one way or another, have been hit during this corona crisis and tried to help them. And now, this yellow budget document, which is the most important document in this Chamber, as has been said in previous speeches, is actually continuing along the same lines. Efforts will be made to support different industries so that Finns do not have to starve; so that food aid does not have to be put on more money, but rather those queues will be reduced; in order to reduce poverty; in order to reduce homelessness; in order to provide the police with better resources; in order to make investments in nature so that the environment can improve and not deteriorate. And we are still stuck to the same goals of the Government Programme: 2035 Finland is carbon-free and completely carbon-neutral. In all of this, I feel that it has been very successful, and that is why we must now look in the mirror at their,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u299	Mr President! The fact that the authors of the motion of censure immediately left the Chamber will tell us the seriousness of the situation. So the conclusion is that this motion of censure does not deserve any more serious comment from the rest of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u300	Mr President! This is where Mr Al-Taee spoke just now about how the Minister has been monitoring the long nights, working for this country, and you have also repeated these things, which Mr Lindtman has already spoken here, in other words, about how Finland is placed in international comparisons. [Representatives of the SDP with the exception of Maria Guzenina leaving the Chamber] It is not, therefore, a question of how Finland sits in international comparisons, whether we are better than Sweden, as we are, but of the fact that when we receive the official instructions from the highest management in the country, which happens to sit in this Chamber in the ministerial court, we should be able to rely on what they say. We act on the basis of their comments, their speeches, their words, what is said about the ministerial box or what is said at the Government press conferences. And so, if you question in a way the motives why you have said this, as you have now clearly assumed or actually revealed — in other words, when there were no masks, that was the reason why the mask recommendation was not given — so continue, when the ministers come forward with some recommendations or even binding guidelines of public health importance, then unfortunately it may turn into the public opinion’s thoughts so that, after all, is there something else behind it, whether this vaccine is safe enough, whether this is it, this and that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u301	Mr President! I will return to that area of environmental protection and environmental management. The sitting government wants to make up for its waste by raising taxes. The cost of living, driving and food, especially for Finns, will rise with government policy. Finland’s middle-class households are already agonizing with their tax burden. The Marin government is quite a tax government that has even targeted Finnish industry. Government parties are trying to tax companies more and more, and at the same time the government is wreaking havoc with the climate. The Finns Party strongly oppose raising taxes on housing and motoring and measures that reduce the competitiveness of businesses and industry. Although the industrial electricity tax has now been set at the EU minimum level in the Government Programme, the entire Government Five effectively offset its effects by other increases in energy and fuel taxes. Mr President! As has been said, the big picture shows climate change mitigation in almost all government activities. It is also sad that our government, which is often sitting down, is even more ambitious than the EU's objectives. This line has already contributed to the loss of many jobs and to the future downsizing of factories, such as Kaipola and Naantali and so on. It should be borne in mind that national policies allow for the growth of industrial jobs and the financing of our well-being and ensure a reduction in both EU and global emissions. This has not happened now; the government has weakened the situation by its own actions. Finland cannot compete with wages, locations or raw materials. If industrial manufacturing disappears abroad, the financing base for our well-being will collapse. If we take too much emission reduction burden on our shoulders, the industry will leave Finland. In the worst case, our industry is moving to countries where climate obligations are ignored by that heavenly one. Mr President! The carbon footprint of copper produced in Europe is already half the size of a global competitor. In nickel, the difference is even greater. The carbon footprint of a global nickel product is up to 4-10 times that of European nickel. In copper and nickel, both raw material and product markets are completely global and metal prices are defined on the London metal exchange. The costs of European emission allowance trading cannot be passed on to the prices of products on the global market in any way. With the current cost structure, European manufacturing has already been at a disadvantage in international competition. As a result, among other things, the market share of Chinese producers in copper and nickel has increased by up to 15 %. In the case of investment projects for CO2 reduction, electrification plays a key role and therefore compensation support or a replacement system should be maintained at least throughout the period 2021 to 2030. The elimination of compensation aid means that the electricity cost of energy-intensive industries will be tens of percent higher than in countries where there is no emissions trading scheme or equivalent or where the compensation is in line with the maximum level specified by the EU. In addition, the carbon leakage list of the Compensation Act should include sectors with a medium carbon leakage risk. For Finland, such industries include the production of copper and the production of nickel. In order to achieve Finland’s and Europe’s low carbon objectives, it is essential that the Finnish production of these strategically vital metals be covered by the Compensation Act. If this is not achieved, it is obvious that processing will take place elsewhere than in Finland and Europe, i.e. carbon leakage will increase. Mr President! Finland must restore its policy guidelines to the centre of political decision-making: the price of energy must be able to replace Finland's remote location in our competitor countries and long journeys within the country. Only at a low cost of energy will it be possible to compensate for the extra costs of transporting our products to the market over a long period of time. The government seems to have completely forgotten this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u302	Mr President! In June 2020, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy published a study that identified both legislative and structural barriers that put people with disabilities at a disadvantage in terms of participation in the labour market. Problems were seen, among other things, the complexity of the disability service network and its shortcomings in terms of employment, the high threshold for employers to hire disabled persons and the potential lack of a disabled job seeker from previous work experience. The results of the study were presented with a number of proposals for measures to improve the situation. The report is reasonably recent, and I would have liked to have asked the Minister earlier when there was a debate, but when I was unable to get the floor, I was not able to ask here. But I hope that — oh, well, there are not so many representatives of the government party here. But, well, perhaps these greetings, at least in the form of a Minutes, will then move forward. These solutions, which emerged last June, would be important and urgent to promote next year, but I would also like this to be a signal for the coming years as far as the remaining measures are concerned, that they will be included in future budgets. These measures will cost money, but they will certainly pay for themselves. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u303	I would like to say that we still have a rule that we can get out of the gym if there is no need to sit here. I suspect there are representatives out there on remote communication listening to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-09-ps-127.u304	The 20th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 14 October 2020. The Council of Presidents proposes that the following procedure be followed for the sole examination of the sixth draft amending budget: The debate will begin at the plenary session on Wednesday, 14 October 1920, at 2 p.m., with a rapid part-session, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. The amendments must be submitted to the Central Assembly no later than 12 noon on Tuesday 13 October 2020. The relevant votes will take place on Friday 16 October 2020. To the extent that no amendments to the sixth amending budget have been proposed, it is deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
