ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-27-ps-153.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 26/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 25 November 2020. The draft amending budget will now be examined in detail. It is possible to make all the proposals and support relating to the same objection at one time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-27-ps-153.u2	Ville Vähämäki's proposal 3, Markku Eestilä's proposal 4 and Sari Essayah's proposal 5 are of the same content and will therefore be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-27-ps-153.u3	Markku Eestilä's proposal 12 and Sari Essayah's proposal 14 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-27-ps-153.u4	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-27-ps-153.u5	Mr President! After all, this proposal proposes measures to support maritime transport in a difficult situation of interest rates. In support of maritime transport, the State would repay employers’ health insurance contributions, the employer’s share of the unemployment insurance contribution, the group life insurance contribution and the employer’s share of the voluntary leisure accident insurance and leisure insurance contribution. The aim of this is therefore to support the maritime sector in the economic damage caused by the covid-19 pandemic and to support the competitiveness of the industry. I was wondering that this kind of aid would be extremely welcome in many other areas at the moment. A moment ago, Parliament voted on the difficult situation of tourism in Lapland, for example. It would now be necessary, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to give such a hand to the tourism industry in Lapland as is proposed here for maritime transport. — I was a little surprised that even downtown MPs in Lapland voted in favour of these measures just a moment ago. Or a big event area, which is also in a very difficult situation at the moment. This package, which has come to sea, will help our ships in this difficult situation, but there will also be a need for a programme in the future. In the event sector, we have more than 3,200 companies and 175,000 people employed, and this sector was faced with an increasingly difficult situation this week with restrictions on new public events. Or, if I were last to raise the issue, cinemas that could use the kind of help that maritime transport is getting here. We have cinemas in a very difficult situation and they said that the general limit for cinemas is 20, whether there are 500 seats or 50 seats in the room. The film industry says that it is frankly foolish, it is not based on any proper analysis of the safety of customers. With this speech, Mr President, I wanted to point out that we have a wide range of sectors in a very difficult situation. Maritime transport is now being helped, but tourism, cinemas, the field of events and many others are in a situation where they will no longer survive this winter if measures are not now taken to help them.
