ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u1	The fourth item on the agenda is the topical debate on the problems of debt. The debate will be opened by the first signatory to the debate, Mrs Ritva Elomaa, with a ten-minute speech. The next speaker is Minister of Justice Anna-Maja Henriksson, which is five minutes long. After that, I will give you the one-minute response in the order that I am considering. The answers are reserved with a V button and an hour and a half is reserved for the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u2	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Council of Presidents for having this important issue, namely debt, in the debate in the Chamber today. I would also like to thank the representatives who signed this initiative. It is a great thing that signatures came across party boundaries. Mr President! Debt in Finland has been on a growth path for a long time. This trend must not be allowed to continue. During 2019, enforcement operations targeted as many as 562,144 persons. According to Finnish Customer Information, in 2019 a record number of payment disruption entries were registered for individuals. The number was just under 1.9 million. 387000 — so many have a default mark. It's quiet. This figure, too, is a new record. Think, ladies and gentlemen, of the scale of the problem. The current situation is alarming and it is obvious that debt problems will explode in the near future unless something is done quickly. The general economic and employment situation naturally affects debt, so I sincerely hope that the government will succeed on this front. It is in the interests of Finland. Bitter measures are needed to overcome debt problems. Firstly, efforts must be made to prevent indebtedness, such as the development of economic education and early-stage advice and other support measures. Attention should also be paid to the marketing of products and services. Secondly, we must invest in improving the status of debtors. You can't turn off a spark of hope for a better tomorrow if you're in debt. The source of over-indebtedness is a vast variety of causes, and these causes are often very humane. The debt problems of low-income Finns may arise from a small hospital charge. Thirdly, legislation on debt needs to be constantly assessed and developed. The government cannot just stand by for years to see how the interest rates and collection costs of quick-leases touch the clouds. The regulation of loan services and the limitation of interest rates are also important measures for the prevention of debt problems. There is also a need for accountability in granting credit, and the maximum amount of unsecured credit must be limited. I am deeply concerned about young people growing up in the middle of the consumption festival. Today, opportunities for spending, debt and living beyond their means are limitless. There is a certain amount of financial education in schools, but there is certainly a need to increase it. It is great that, for example, the Bank of Finland has started a year of national coordination to increase young people’s economic management skills. Technology also offers its resources to support financial management, such as the Penno service and banks' own applications. These tools should be developed to facilitate financial management. For example, clinics could provide food for families in financial matters. Marketing is very aggressive today. Sometimes prices are expressed in rather vague terms and the consumer does not understand what he is committing to. In this respect, clarity is needed in the rules of the game, and the seller's responsibility must be underlined. In my view, the provision of credit instead of cash payments should also be restricted. The restriction on the marketing of loan products and credit cards should also be reviewed to the extent possible under EU rules. We have to help those in debt to overcome their problems. Some of the debts may have been cancelled since the recession of the 1990s. Many have faced unexpected challenges in life, such as the loss of ability to work or the loss of a job. High-interest short-term loans are also reflected in an increase in debt problems. Inheritance must be addressed. A reasonable ceiling shall be provided for recovery costs. In addition, recovery measures must be strictly monitored so that the debtor’s back skin is not torn apart without justification. At the moment, the rules of the Wild West which prevail in tradition and people are even being billed quite grossly without justification. There is also a need to steer enforcement in a fairer direction. The protection rate must be increased from the current level and the performance fees must not guide the activities of enforcement men. Similarly, the issue of debt ageing needs to be examined critically. A good example of this is the victims of the recession of the 1990s, many of whom have been in debt for eternity. This isn't fair anymore. People deserve a second chance to move on. The Finns have often raised the victims of the recession in the 1990s, and it is hoped that a better solution will be found for them. The debtor must receive up-to-date information on the debt balance, repayments and all expenses. Nor should it be possible to vaccinate the debtor for the sale of the claims. Well, that's a tough thing to do when a debtor pays what he can, but the debt balance just keeps growing. We have to put a stop to this. The retention periods for default marking should be reduced, especially in the event of debt being repaid up to the last cent. The default marking makes everyday life difficult in many ways, and it is not right to harass a small person for an unnecessary period of time. The reduction in the duration of default marking has also been mentioned in the Government Programme, so hopefully improvements will be made in this area as quickly as possible. The Government also promises to clarify the need for amendments to the laws of the individual regarding debt arrangements and corporate restructuring. I would like to ask the government: have there been any progress in this regard? Facilitating access to the debt settlement would help a large number of debtors, so it would be vital that this issue progressed soon. We've got to get the interest rate and the quick-lease companies under control. At the beginning of September, the ceiling entered into force. Its effects must be actively monitored so that interest rates are not reduced in the same way as those imposed on the company in 2013. There was an attempt to influence interest rates by amending the legislation, but there was a bad loophole in the law. On a practical level, it only led to the explosion of debt amounts and to the further deepening of the plight of people. I'm asking the government to stay awake about this. The total debt ceiling should be considered. More stringent ceilings could also be considered for unsecured loans. The introduction of a positive credit register has been recorded in the Government Programme during this parliamentary term. What is the current situation with this, government? Mr President! Why is debt a big social issue? The overwhelming burden of debt tends to paralyze a small person. It undermines the hope of the future and is more or less directly reflected in both mental and physical well-being. Debt problems are also reflected in families and other loved ones. Moreover, many over-debted people will not survive their daily lives without social support, which naturally increases the state’s social security expenditure — it is not a small amount of money. As I pointed out at the beginning of the speech, this is not a small problem but a major social challenge. It must also be remembered that not all Finns struggling with debt problems have a default mark, at least not yet. The Government Programme has mentioned a lot of good ways to break over-indebtedness. In addition to what I mentioned earlier, I very much welcome the development of social credit and the strengthening of economic social skills and the euro-denominated ceiling on recovery costs. Now is the time to put the records of the Government Programme into practice. I hope that today I will hear clear promises from the government about what will be done to combat over-indebtedness, and with what timetable, namely that this is a very urgent matter and that reform cannot be delayed. Mr President! At the end of the day, The content of this speech is perhaps a little more for the debtors, because I believe that it is of paramount importance for society, the debtor, the creditor, all the people, that the debts are settled but that that wall is not immediately on the table. It won't do anyone any good then. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u3	Mr President! Värderade Talman! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Elomaa for this discussion initiative. I think it is very valuable and important for us to have this debate in Parliament today on over-indebtedness. Over the decades, developments have gradually taken place as if undetected and yet just under our eyes. It is high time that debt problems were tackled with a tight grip. The direction must change.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u4	Mr President! How would you like to go party this weekend? Enjoy the weekend with your friends, even though your account's empty. — Such messages target the marketing of instant credit to young people on social media during the weekend. In recent years, debt problems have grown alarmingly. The number of default entries has also reached record levels: almost 1.9 million new entries. This is a problem that must be stopped. That is why the government has taken this issue on its agenda and has made it more effective in preventing and reducing consumer debt problems. The Government Programme has outlined a number of missing entries — thanks to the Minister for going through them. In addition to the means of the Government Programme, it would be appropriate to strengthen people's ability to manage their own debts. Recovery services could even be eliminated by assembling all people's short-term payments in a single vision that shows the total amount of loans, the due dates and can ask for a transfer of due dates or a debt arrangement. More and more shift in the management of over-indebtedness
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u5	Mr President! Today we are having a very important debate on the issue of debt, and I would like to say hello to the Helsinki Youth Council, which met the Helsinki Council last autumn. The youth councillors then raised the subject of economics and hoped for it as one of their own doctrines. They told us that today this teaching is not enough for a youth to take possession of his own financial knowledge and skills. This is exactly what Sebastian is about. Tynkkynen has taken a legislative initiative and is collecting signatures, which is something that might well be raised. This is the same point that was raised during the Committee on Legal Affairs' visit to debt counselling: this initiative was welcomed and it is hoped that this young people's message will be received by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u6	Mr President! This debate on over-indebtedness is very important and I would like to include in this debate a fundamental issue from the point of view of our society and our welfare state, namely small entrepreneurship and the survival of bankruptcy. When we talk about employment and the creation of new jobs, the key element is small entrepreneurs and the creation of new businesses. At the moment, however, especially for young people, one of the main reasons why entrepreneurship is not chosen or why entrepreneurship is not interested is too great an economic risk. The risks will materialise if the business idea fails and the entrepreneur goes bankrupt. At its worst, it can lead to decades of debt imprisonment, which means that you can no longer affect your own financial situation and that you are threatened with autonomy. Business debts are often high and interest rates are increasing all the time. If we want new entrepreneurs and new jobs, the government must take action to reduce this type of suffering for the family as a whole and to humanise the consequences of bankruptcy and subsequent long-term incarceration. Events of the Depression of the 1990s
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u7	Let us try to keep one minute of the speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u8	Mr President! Many times you hear understatements against people in debt. There is a comment that you have driven yourself into that situation, that you should pay your debts, but when it comes to it, I believe that at that point there will be quite a lot of crying and you will see that the debt has not been caused by any irresponsibility, but that there may be a lot of different factors behind it: divorce, unemployment, bankruptcy or so on. Although this debt entails a lot of economic risks, perhaps we should also talk about what types of risks relate to public health, for example. Here the government brings a lot of good proposals for services and the ways in which debt problems are addressed and prevented, but it should also be able to provide even more practical support for the everyday life, the shame associated with debt, and, on the other hand, the thinking that man is not alone with his debt problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u9	Mr President! The Government Programme addresses the root causes of indebtedness by increasing social protection for disadvantaged people and improving access to services and by promoting the economic competence of citizens of all ages. At the end of 2019, the default marking was already over 380,000 Finns. In the background there are many reasons for the gambling and substance abuse problems that require treatment. The extension of social credit to national practice is currently being examined. A positive credit register is the most significant reform in this area, and the government will shorten the duration of default marking once the arrears have been settled and debt is reversed in a positive direction. Mr President! The reform of the Consumer Fees Act will also make it easier for many when the freedom to pay for social services is extended and payments are made more affordable. The reduction and non-recovery of customer charges in relation to income security is a priority. The aim of the reform of the Customer Fees Act is that customers do not have to rely on income support to cope with customer charges.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u10	Mr President! We are talking about a very important issue and probably about the very big economic problem and challenge that affects each of us Finns. Over-indebtedness applies to all age groups and to all classes of society. It is also very alarming that young people are over-indebtedness and, as Mrs Elomaa rightly pointed out in her speech, over-indebtedness also has a very large human impact. It creates hopelessness, visionlessness, exclusion from society. That is why huge efforts and reforms are needed, which this government is also committed to doing. It is important that we increase the protective part of enforcement so that work pays off and motivates. The duration of default marking must also be reduced in order to enable a person’s everyday life. It creates that hope
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u11	Mr President, värderade talman! Thank you for your very good contributions and thank you for your cooperation last season. I think there were 137 of us across half the border who then took the bill to remove the entries when the debt has been paid out, and now it is in this excellent Rinte and Marin government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u12	Mr President! Thank you for this debate. Debt can begin for many reasons. Low income and different forms of poverty can lead to debt. We have family poverty with children, student poverty, pensioner poverty, poverty due to illness and even poverty due to entrepreneurship. The main factors contributing to poverty are unsecured loans, which are too easy to obtain. The change that has taken place has brought a great deal of poverty. In the bankruptcy of an entrepreneur, the guarantee debt to an entrepreneur may come as a surprise, social changes and perhaps the most serious thing for us in society: these poor people in the recession of the 1990s who are still wrestling with their bail debts. The answer to this could be to reduce these unsecured debts,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u13	Mr President! After all, the working group has proposed ways of reducing the loan ceiling and introducing a maximum debt ratio and a repayment cap. However, they are too formal — this is the view of almost all experts — and no impact assessments have been made. Only the regulation of loans from the housing company is worth testing. It does not affect the whole housing market or individual people and families. In my view, the capping of the quick levers is too high, because today, those who give the quick levers can give the levers to anyone and then sell them to the collection companies. They don't have to look at who they're giving those loans to at all. If the ceiling were lower, they should look at who these loans are given to.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u14	Mr President! In recent years, a record number of enforcements have started. In 2018, almost 390,000 of these included social welfare and health care customer fees and up to 69,000 of these health centre fees, which is a truly worrying phenomenon. However, Article 11 of the current Act on Customer Payments has beenrequired. This means that in certain situations, for example in the event of a lack of assets, there is the possibility of either reducing the fee or not recovering it. These customer fees relate to income-related social welfare and health care contributions. In practice, there has been little use of payment relief in municipalities for some reason. It is good that the government has paid attention to debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u15	Mr President! We are talking about an extremely important issue, namely debt, and there can be very many reasons for this. Take an example: a patient who is in a hospital or health center. If he has to be there for a long time, no one will necessarily be at home watching and opening the bills — if he lives alone, may be an old man — and when these bills are not opened, then they may not be paid, and then they will go into recovery, and this will be a problem. This is a pretty big thing that we in Parliament should really react to. Another example may be such that you buy even a product that also comes with a service, was it now even a phone subscription, Internet subscription or other, which can be accompanied by someone like this service to trade it at the same time so to speak on the market, and then the service can not be cancelled, not really by phone, not by real e-mail, not really in any way. There's bills coming in, and I can't even cancel the store. The notice period for this service can be huge, which causes bills to come, and sometimes it may even have happened that the customer thinks he has cancelled the service, but there will be bear bills. I think that is an incomprehensible situation. Yes, Parliament must intervene in this sort of thing. It can't be right for this to continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u16	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk about education, and it must now be remembered, however, that the teaching of financial information begins in the fourth grade and, for example, in upper secondary school, there is one compulsory course of financial information. 94% of teachers think it is worthwhile to teach financial information, and they bring it in their own subjects in an appropriate way, for example in mathematics, interest bills and so on. Of course, more instruction can be given, and I do not rule out its need, but it always comes to the point that if something is added something must be reduced. One aspect I consider to be that the use of money has changed to an abstract form. I don't see any cash. Another aspect is that man simply does not always need everything he wants. There must also be moved motivational satisfaction in such needs,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u17	Mr. Speaker! I agree with many other representatives that this strange, long obsolescence of default marking is not good legislation. It is a great thing that the Red Mult Government has decided to remove it, and I myself was signing the excellent initiative of Mr Strand during the last parliamentary term. President! I also think it is very important that a positive credit register is now at last and finally in this parliamentary term, and I thank the Minister for Justice for promoting it. However, I also see that we do need bigger structural legislative changes. In the Anglo - American countries, perhaps the United States as the most used example, there is such an easier discharge of debts, as it were, from a type of personal bankruptcy. We have a private debt arrangement law of that kind and it could be developed. There are quite a lot of problems in this area, for example, for personal enterprise entrepreneurs and farmers. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister of Justice: how does the government intend to develop the private debt law, the corporate restructuring law and also the bankruptcy law towards genuine personal bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u18	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a good answer and thank you for a good question. In my opinion, this debate has focused on genuine challenges, precisely how to remove default labels more quickly once things have been done, and on how to deal with quick levers better than at present. It should be noted that, on the other hand, in the case of mortgages, Finns continue to pay off loans well. If anything, then even in that debate we should look at loans to housing communities in relation to new construction, which in some cases may be quite high. Otherwise, it is good to focus on root causes, for example, which are related to the problem of repayment of quick-lending loans.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u19	Mr President! It is really important that Parliament stops at this phenomenon. There are half a million people in Finland in enforcement. Last year alone, Finns received 1.9 million new default marking. It is finally time to intervene. There is certainly no such thing as a golden arrow, but a lot of action is needed. I'm going to list a few of them. Firstly, social credit must be made available throughout the country. The aggressive marketing of credit, on which Mr Mäkynen here gave a good example of evil, is targeted particularly at young people, i.e. the weaker and more vulnerable. We need to control this once and for all. It must be possible to tighten up the regulation of short-term credit if this is not enough. The amount of recovery costs must also be limited for non-individuals. And a positive credit register must be made available. Mr President! This has been a good debate, and I believe that you, the Minister, seem to have the support of the whole Parliament. All we have to do is move forward and move fast.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u20	Mr President! The protection of freedom of contract and contractual relations is important for morals and society. However, the exploitation of the weaker position of the other Contracting Party shall be prohibited. The current 20 % interest rate cap still represents a legalised interest rate shark, and this must be eliminated. The amount of eligible risk may be taken as interest on late payments in the Interest Rate Act, which is the reference rate plus 7 or 8 percentage points. The reference rate is zero, i.e. the creditworthy receive the money at the highest cost. Even from the general experience of life, it is clear that if the borrower accepts interest rates of more than 7%, he must be in a really weak position. If, on the other hand, the lender asks for a higher interest rate than the interest on late payment, it is a question of knowingly exploiting the disadvantaged at high risk. Action is detrimental to society and does not deserve protection. Mr President! At the same time, it is necessary to fix the limit for the accepted risk-taking and for the interest rate to be applied to the interest rate charged, either directly or in some way, so that the limit is clear and known to all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u21	Mr President! The whole Chamber is concerned about this over-indebtedness and, of course, it is a good backlash for the Minister to take even faster steps. It is a very good thing that, as early as last season, this ceiling for quick levers — okay, its level can still be discussed — and also that this positive credit register is now in the process of being implemented. But, yes, what is very important is what Mr Lindtman referred to last time here as getting this prevention right. And I still think, and there was also a clear majority in the previous Parliament, that these speed levers should simply be banned from marketing, as has been done in the Netherlands. It is already a good thing to think about putting it under the supervision of the Financial Supervisory Authority, but it is quite possible to do so in such a way that it is banned from marketing, and then we will at least get those who go there in the form of an impulse purchase out of that cycle and prevent this. I hope that this will proceed as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u22	Mr President! Thank you very much for this debate today. Mr Laukkanen has already made a very good speech on how poverty is reflected in the various phenomena and, as Vice-President of the poverty group itself, I am very much in favour of it, but I would also like to raise an even stronger point of view in the debate on this economic competence and, consequently, on preparedness and prevention. I remember the result of the youth barometer in 2018, according to which 70 per cent of young people in Finland feel that they have shortcomings in their economic competence after 12 years of studies. This is an alarming result, and that is why I feel that, for example, vocational education and training needs more social hours from the economy, that comprehensive school needs macro-economic study and that we should create checkpoints along the way. One such checkpoint could, for example, be a discussion of the economic situation and its development in connection with invitations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u23	Mr President! In this Chamber, employment has probably been the most discussed in recent times. The Left wants access to working life and opportunities for older people, sick people and other hard-to-work people. In the right, however, there is a desire to reduce social security, to force people to accept any work on any salary, but it is usually forgotten that the incentives traps in Finland have practically all been dismantled. And here we have the last big incentive trap in front of us: as we look at the obstacles to employment, one group stands out, the over-indebted, who do not want to take up work for economic reasons. So there is a particularly great deal at stake here about employment, and I really think it is wonderful that we now have a government whose programme has very good means of reducing this problem. It is highly appreciated that the opposition has become a supporter of these government proposals. And since these measures are so good, I hope that the Minister will really hurry to implement these proposals in the government programme as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u24	Irade the Talman! Det är viktigt att regeringen agerar effecttivt för att minska på överskuldsättningen och alla de problemm som är förknippade med den. Vi har bra skrivningar i regeringsprogrammet som vi nu har hört att justitieministern målmedvetet genomför. Vi behöver battre och tydligare ekonomisk rådgivning, och det handlar faktiskt om att på bred front fostra människor att ta de latta beslutten, detta i en värd där utbudet på dyra lånepengar är stort och många gånger fördolt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u25	Mr President! In Finland, as has been said here before, the law on a private person’s debt arrangement is the closest law to a personal bankruptcy. For example, it could be developed in such a way as to create criteria that, by applying for a debt arrangement, interest rates, for example, would be cut off. Now we have this government's legislative programme, and there are good projects here, but I did not see at all this law on the debt regime, it does not seem to be moving forward. It looked pretty worrying to me. How's it going? Another entry in the Government Programme is the development of economic governance in all age groups. Good ideas were now put forward for young people in school, but what about the elderly, who, for example, have 75,000 in lobbying, and that is an increasing number? There has been no opening of the act of conservatism for years and nothing has actually been developed in parallel with it. How the Minister has planned to develop skills related to disability loss due to illness and ageing
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u26	And two minutes' speeches to the ministers. First, Secretary Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u27	Mr President! Thank you for the very good questions and for this debate. I'd like to start with this financial expertise. It has come in many speeches, and I think it is a representative. The kiuru was very right when he said there was no money. It's kind of the problem that our kids and kids are growing up with today. Last weekend I thought about what it was like when we, some of us, were small and young. We had piggy banks. Do children today have piggy banks at home? Maybe not as much as before. Today, money travels on the phone and, in a way, what money is is left in the air as a concept. They don't really know where the money comes from, where it goes, what its value is. It is precisely because of this that there is education in our schools from early childhood education to basic education, and also to that second level, is extremely, extremely important. I've also been in touch with OKM now. This is a good project by the Bank of Finland, in which they, together with the Ministry of Education and Culture, are now considering how to further strengthen this economic competence from school onwards. It's a good start. Well, then there's the question of social credit. It is a project by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, but it too is now on the move. As far as the debt arrangement is concerned, there are changes to the debt arrangement laws, i.e. the debt arrangement of both individuals and entrepreneurs, and they will come to this hall in 2021. That is precisely because we in the Ministry are under enormous pressure. There are infinitely many projects,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u28	Mr President! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for a very good debate. Of course, for my part, I will, perhaps first and foremost, respond to consumer credit related to housing, because a large proportion of consumer credit, 75% of our credits, is primarily related to housing, which is a very central issue for people. If we look at the situation as a whole, it is true that, for example, at the end of last year there has been 127.2 % of the debt in relation to disposable income. Finns are in debt slightly more than before. Of course, this in itself does not cause us any great concern and change, but at that point, if income suddenly falls or interest rates change, it is of course a very big question for people. Well, then, if we look at the legislative issues referred to here, which have also been included in the government programme and which were raised by Mr Harkimo and Mr Holopainen in particular, and also by Mr Bergqvist with regard to this timetable, then it is true that, once this working group has worked, there are some proposals that could try to curb household debt: the amount of credit could be 4.5 times the annual gross income, the repayment period for mortgage loans could be limited and housing loans could be moderated. These methods are also partly mechanical, so they must be carefully prepared, and that work is now being done. The intention is that next year Parliament will have this legislation before it. For example, the transfer of the supervision of consumer credit to the Financial Supervisory Authority, which Mr Bergqvist asked about here, could then come after the parliamentary procedure, from the beginning of 22 C.E. But the point is, of course, that ordinary people who handle their debts and credit well,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u29	Mr President! I would like to support Mr Satonen's view that the marketing of instant sales should be banned in Finland, just as in Holland. I also personally believe that short-lived forms should be banned in Finland. We should develop new types of loans to replace the quick lever, which would result in people not getting into an increasingly difficult situation in life, but would enable the life situation to be clarified and clarified. Often quick - moving is taken when major changes occur in life, such as illness, perhaps the death of a loved one, unemployment, or divorce. The situation in life will then become more difficult, and often as a result of this the income will also be reduced. The disease may cause people to take a quickie, which in turn causes us to be in a more difficult spiral and the economic situation to become more difficult. That is why I would like to see,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u30	Mr President! The problem of default marking is a big one for many: it was difficult to get a home and, in time, even to get bank IDs. A positive credit register is on the way — thanks to the government of our country — but I would like to ask: what takes so long that it will not come into force until the spring of 2023? In fact, this positive credit register is likely to help some of these quick levers too, that they will not be born dozens, as many have. But it seems that the quick-jump companies are one step ahead, as Mr Kiljunen pointed out. I myself am prepared to support the fact that, as things stand today, they are completely banned — at night or with such a timetable they are not needed. Mr President! I would also like to ask: how are measures to strengthen debt counselling and, on the other hand, to facilitate the debt arrangements of bankrupt entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u31	Mr President! There has been a wise discussion on the issue of indebtedness prevention and a positive credit register with regard to colleagues. The government has a good toolbox in it, and the matter is moving forward — that is good. It is then a matter of how household indebtedness will be prevented in relation to mortgage loans and consumer credit. This is, of course, a very important question for the national economy and for the banking system as a whole, and it must take many aspects into account. One is that we are already seeing big differences, firstly in the value of housing in different parts of the country, and also in the fact that people with low incomes are finding it increasingly difficult to get into housing saving and into their own housing. Finns like to invest and save in two ways: lotterying and buying their own apartment. I would like to see a place for people on low incomes in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u32	Mr President! Debt is not only an economic issue, but also a human tragedy. In many of the most difficult situations, more problems pile up on the same shoulders at the same time, so that the burden can become unreasonable. Poverty paralyzes in a way that may not be easy to understand if you have not experienced it or have not seen it at all. There's a pile of numbers piled up when the downfall accumulates, and the forces can run out, no matter what the background. This lack of view is a poison to hope and well-being. Everyone should have the opportunity for a new start and the necessary support, regardless of the situation in life. Never should there be a hopeless situation without a way out. It is good, therefore, that the government has identified many aspects of this important issue and has seized it with a human touch. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, at the same time, the necessary social and health care services and other accompanying support services must be ensured in order to take into account the whole life situation of a person.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u33	Mr President! It is appropriate to thank Mrs Elomaa for this discussion initiative. Debt is one major social problem for which we have not yet been able to develop sufficiently viable solutions. This is explained by a significant number of default marking. In a broader sense, household indebtedness is also a phenomenon that must be taken into account. The debt of our households relative to income has doubled in 20 years. The problem is twofold: on the one hand, high interest rates are too easy to absorb into the debt cycle, and on the other hand, long-term low interest rates on larger loans are attractive to large amounts of debt. What do we have to do? One way to prevent debt is to extend the perceived social credit. I hope that it will also be used in the homes of all our representatives. At the heart of the debt problem is citizens' economic competence and economic governance, which is also invested in in accordance with the Government Programme. In addition, access to aid for over-indebted persons will be improved. Mr President! As has been said, the Government Programme responds to the debt problem with a number of important measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u34	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Elomaa, for a good debate initiative. It is worth recalling that at least all the parliamentary periods that I myself have been in this house since 2011 have already been under discussion on this legislation. In 2013, we made a law in this house that has a 50% interest rate cap on these loans below EUR 2000. This is what the fast-start companies were doing by granting EUR 2000 or more than EUR 2000. This continued all the way here until autumn 2019, until fortunately this government has now been given a law that 20 per cent will be an interest rate cap in the future, which is a very good job. But for six years, this kind of loan sharking was allowed in this house — we could not intervene more quickly. In that sense, ladies and gentlemen, the question is: once a consumer ombudsman has brought such a class action against these quick loans, two companies which have charged more than 300 % interest,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u35	Mr President! Thank you to Mrs Elomaa for this important debate initiative, which I myself signed. Of course, there is a common concern, and action can be preventive measures, such as legislative measures that actually create a responsible market economy, and then, of course, the economic skills of citizens, especially young people and young adults. Prevention during the last period is also the interest rate cap provided for in these legislative measures and, among other things, the ban on the marketing of quick-leases signed by Mr Satos and more than a hundred colleagues. It is important for the government to take these forward. It was also good to hear that this positive credit repository, which was examined last season, is moving forward. I would therefore have asked about the protection element, which at the moment does not take into account part-time work, commission work, but rather monthly paid work: when there is a person who already has debts in enforcement, and the protection element is important for encouraging it to do so,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u36	Mr President! I'm glad to hear that the ministry has been set in motion. I would, however, like to see some justification for the fact that there were actually 138 names in this initiative, if I remember correctly, and 137 have not been included in this positive credit register, in cases which are not linked in themselves. This legislation on payment default marking could be brought here at a rapid pace, because it is undoubtedly the joint will of this Chamber for the last period, when the Legal Affairs Committee made its own statement to the Ministry that this really needs to be taken into consideration. I cannot understand why it has been linked to this positive credit default mark. Now we should move quickly, in accordance with the will of the Parliament. I would like to ask the Minister: could these two issues not be prepared separately and speeded up by the abolition of the default marking?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u37	Mr President, ärade talman! I too think that this is a very important topic for discussion, and it is good that Mrs Elomaa has raised it and in that way supports the important work of the government and many entries to prevent and resolve over-indebtedness in the Government Programme. It is not in the interests of the debtor or of the creditor that a person should be subjected to such deep hopelessness, but, on the contrary, ways of getting out of it should be found, and in that sense, of course, this social credit and increased financial advice resources are very important, especially when such difficult issues are involved. But then there are situations in which, for example, young people or people who are in poor health for one reason or another receive default notices on very minor matters, and I would hope that, especially for those children who may be up to 40,000 and who have received a default note on their own, they will at least get it out of the way. I do not see any excuse for a child, a minor, being there on a default note, and perhaps I agree with these wishes that this part of the problem can be resolved as soon as possible. Good luck to the Minister!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u38	Mr President! I would have liked to ask the minister about the debt counselling and its queues. After all, in 2018, debt counselling went to legal aid offices and, therefore, also to the Ministry of Justice, and I recall that before this transition took place, we had very different situations across Finland. There may have been very different situations in cities around Finland — I think there were six months’ queues in some of the statistics in Oulu, and some time in Joensuu could get to debt counselling in the same week. Are these waiting times now evened out, and has the Ministry set some kind of criteria for them, for example, quite clearly? On the other hand, is there now, under the authority of the same ministry, the possibility of greater cooperation between enforcement and debt counselling, and, for example, of the various, often inhumane situations of life, illness or other sudden, self-independent situations?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u39	Mr President! The number of Finns who have received payment default marking has grown annually and is already approaching 400,000. Here, too, prevention is in every way better than remedying the problems that have already arisen. Our decision-makers across party boundaries should pay particular attention to cutting off this development. We must have the courage to try out new operating models to resolve this issue. The whole is wide and certainly not resolved by individual measures, even though the piggy banks were mentioned here. More action and legislative changes are required to improve the position of these citizens and at the same time prevent the emergence of new debt problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u40	Mr President! As Mr Werner has pointed out earlier, the indebtedness can also be attributed to social and health care payments. In 2018, over 420000 of all charges imposed on customers for public services ended up in enforcement, and the number grew by one fifth from the previous year. 70,000 of these customer fees that ended up in enforcement included health centre fees, and fortunately, the new bill on customer fees aims to moderate the charges and also to ensure that nurses’ reception visits are free of charge. These are good reforms. There is also a clause in the current Act on Customer Fees that allows customer fees to be reduced or not collected in full, but for some reason this provision is not respected, and that is why people are in financial distress because of these necessary expenses.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u41	Mr President! This debate, raised by Mrs Elomaa, is very good and it is good that we are having a debate here on over-indebtedness. During the previous government term, the government dealt with this same issue, tried to intervene, and, among other things, the regulation of interest rates was tightened. It is very gratifying that the sitting government has also taken the problem of over-indebtedness seriously, that is where you are on the right track. It was good to hear the Minister say that, for example, the positive credit register project that Mr Häkkänen raised last season is progressing and you are preparing. In the same breath, I would like to encourage how from now on: could you look at how to increase economic education in our schools, for a lesson learned at a young age would certainly help in this too? The quick-wipe thing is the biggest worry I've ever had. Representative Niikko drew attention to the fact that since 2011 we have tried to control it here, but it seems that the problem is only getting worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u42	Limits to speaking times too. It's still 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u43	Mr President! We are discussing a very important issue. Over-indebtedness is a very big problem for individual citizens, for families and for the entire economy. Over-indebtedness is also a major social problem. Getting out of the cycle of over-indebtedness is a real challenge, and it requires a great deal of faith and confidence in the future for those people or companies who have been put into it. Minister Henriksson raised a number of important government proposals that are being taken forward. In fact, I believe that three of them are almost in the order of priority: the introduction of a positive credit register, then the tightening of the fast-line legislation and the strengthening of financial and debt counselling. All in all, advice is needed, legal changes are needed
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u44	Mr President! Indeed, the quick lever is too often the last straw for the poor today, so it is good to hear that social credit is progressing. In the prevention of debt, cooperation and a coherent policy between the various ministries is needed, and it would therefore be desirable to prevent poverty, because, as has been pointed out, ordinary daily expenditure, such as rent and pharmaceutical costs, is often the most typical reason for taking a quick break. That is why it is important that, whenever legislative proposals are made, the impact on the distribution of income is assessed, which is often too lightly done, and that is why we in the Audit Committee have commissioned a study on how to improve the quality of drafting of legislation, precisely through careful impact assessments. I would like to draw attention to the Consumer Fees Act, where I have now heard that it would reduce in particular:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u45	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the author of the initiative. This is a very important issue for discussing the situation of over-indebtedness. This has caused a great deal of problems for families and people and has therefore also been included in the government programme to deal with this problem of over-indebtedness. Here too, it is true that the bank and the creditors remember even in difficult times, and it will then create more problems for people who are in debt, and that is why there is a considerable need for debt counselling. For example, in Varkaus we still have a debt counselling situation with the municipality's own operations. I would ask the Minister how much support could be given to municipalities to take part-time debt counselling as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u46	Mr. Speaker! It is a national economic problem that the work input of innovative entrepreneurs who are discouraged by enforcement is not being used. That ingenuity will not be achieved from the national economy or the labour input of workers in enforcement will not be used, and this is due to an incentive trap. I hope that Parliament together will decide to promote these increases in the share of protection. The government has just increased this percentage of enforcement protection by around EUR 6. However, this is not enough, not nearly enough. In their alternative budget, the Finns argued that an increase of EUR 50 would have been made at the beginning of this year. This increase should indeed be continued more strongly. You have to get it on bail and higher.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u47	Irade the Talman! Thank you also, on my own behalf, to the initiator. This is something we have been talking about for a long time, just as Mr Niikko said. As you listened to Minister Henriksson’s opening speech, it seemed that the workshop was being emptied once and for all, so many good things are being carried through. This is something we have been talking about for a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u48	Mr President! An important issue that unfortunately affects an ever larger and larger number of Finns: over-indebtedness and payment disruptions — almost 1.9 million new default marking last year. From there I would highlight in particular the customer fees and, more specifically, the social welfare and health care charges. The total number of enforcement cases initiated in 2018 for these services was close to 387000. A few years ago, social and health care customer fees were increased. From the beginning of 2016, inter alia, charges for equal health services were increased. In practice, this meant that the hospital day cost many in the previous year EUR 38 10 cents and in the following year, EUR 49 50 cents. I am not surprised that these figures are like this. With gratitude, I accept the reform of the Customer Fees Act, which is absolutely necessary. It cannot be that being sick in this country is just a privilege for the wealthier.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u49	Mr President! Household over-indebtedness has increased throughout the 21st century and it is therefore good that we are stopping at this today. We also know that this is not a clear matter, that there is no single solution to this, but that it is a very complex issue, and that is why the most important thing for us is to look at prevention. A very good debate has been held here, for example, on strengthening economic competence in schools. This is also a continuum for the work on how to tackle over-indebtedness, and it was great to hear that the positive credit register launched by the previous Minister of Justice, Häkkänen, is being taken forward. I hope that our work in the working group on inequality will also be taken up during the previous parliamentary term. There we put forward a number of good ways: to clarify the organisation of financial and debt counselling services, to strengthen economic competence in social work, to modernise consumer credit procedures, to develop affordable lending options for low incomes, including the social credit mentioned here;
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u50	Mr President! Just as Minister Henriksson said in his opening speech, there is no such bliss in dealing with this problem, and it is therefore extremely good that the government is now looking at this whole thing. Thank you very much for that. In his own speech, Mr Mäkynen raised the issue of aggressive marketing of speed levers, and I quite agree: it is a truly irresponsible activity; it must be addressed in some way. The important thing, however, is surely that there is a failure to pay. They must leave as soon as the debt has been settled. Like Mrs Myllykoski, I would encourage the Minister to bring this matter before Parliament on a timely basis if possible. Economic education, which has also been raised, is important, but it cannot be left to schools alone, but also to homes, and I see that more embryo-based moderation is needed in Finland. It's needed in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u51	Mr President! Households’ consumer credit stock is currently estimated at around EUR 23 billion. Unfortunately, no similar data are available on quick-leases, as Statistics Finland stopped publishing its credit stock statistics a few years ago, but quick-leases can be estimated with the help of quick-lease companies’ financial statements statistics. This has led to more than triple lending by operators from Sweden, Norway and Estonia in particular in a few years. As many Members have said here, the law that came into force last year did not ultimately ban the marketing of quick-leases and there were no restrictions on this marketing anyway, but fortunately there was a cap on interest rates and a limit on credit costs. The Minister mentioned that the government was evaluating the transfer of the control of quick-leases to the Financial Supervisory Authority, and that is certainly a very good idea, but nevertheless I would like to be, among other things, on the Satosen and Kiljunen line here and ask: would the government really have the courage to move forward in that direction?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u52	My Minister, Mr Kulmuni, has asked for the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u53	Mr President! Thank you for your questions and comments. Perhaps I will start with that point raised by Mr Honkonen: how these proposals by the working group might affect, for example, first-time home buyers. That is, of course, a valid concern, which is why we need to think very carefully about this legislation, because it is not the intention of ordinary Finns, those who do their business well, who pay their bank loans, who pay their mortgages. But, in fact, in the preparation that has been made, it would seem not so much that it would hit first-time home buyers, but perhaps more other borrowers who might already have a higher debt ratio than first-time home buyers. But, above all, of course, the intention is that the lives of people who do their usual business well, who pay their bank loans, are not to be made more difficult here. There has been a lot of praise here for the positive credit register, and I agree with those thanks and praises and wish the colleague every strength and success in working on it. As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, of course, this involves the supervisory responsibility of the Financial Supervisory Authority. Indeed, it is intended that, not only at the beginning of 22 C.E., the supervision of quick-lease companies would be subject to financial supervision, but also the management of insolvency risks could be clarified, but of course the positive credit register is a very important part of this overall. In the Ministry of Finance are the issues of mortgages related to housing, the indebtedness of households, which rightly, as has been proven here, has risen in the 21st century and over the last few years. Then there is the legislation on fast-start companies in the Ministry of Justice, but for my part it is intended that the supervision of their companies will be transferred to the Financial Supervisory Authority. What else can be done to clarify the risk management of insolvency will be before Parliament in the next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u54	Mr President! I am glad that, for once, there is a subject that unites us all and that the debate is not to be torn apart at all. I would like to highlight the over-indebtedness of young people. We know that early debt robs young people of prospects and is a particularly high risk of exclusion. In fact, Minister Henriksson raised the issue of the debt of children, minors. For example, debt may begin when a parent fails to pay bills or borrows in the name of a young person. We still know far too little about this phenomenon. The overgeneration of indebtedness therefore occurs when the debt is incurred by a parent or other close person when the bills or loans taken into account by a young person are not paid and the debts are realised when the child reaches his adult age. In practice, therefore, it is a matter of financial abuse, which often involves young people in a very vulnerable position, since the threshold for reporting a crime is higher according to the closer the person responsible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u55	Mr President! This debate has been very one-sided in spirit, and I thank Mrs Elomaa for her well-prepared initiative. I am sure that all the important points of view have been raised here, and so I will not be repeating the same things myself, but I will be raising one point which arose in this debate. It was Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's speech, in which he asked how it is possible that the current section of the Social and Health Care Act, which I recall, contains the possibility of relief, is not used very much in practice. For 30 years I myself have been in positions where I often showed the decision-makers that they would do as this law allows. In practice, however, strong opposition was generally encountered. From both hospitals and health centers, it was said that these are not social services. In other words, it is easier to do so by simply making payments there and then by other authorities. Political decision-makers were also very critical of this,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u56	Mr President! Household over-indebtedness is a serious problem. It is clear that the economic skills of Finns, for example, must be strengthened in basic education and in second degree. On the other hand, we should not overreact, particularly with regard to mortgages. The Minister of Finance raised the issue of the maximum debt ratio, i.e. the debt ceiling, which, according to the proposal, would be four and a half times the gross household income of the year. So it would also apply to mortgages. Well, experts have highlighted the problems of this debt ceiling, which is an important issue for the housing market in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. This would affect, among other things, the placement of the labour force and exacerbate the problem of matching. A tight ceiling would also crowd out a significant proportion of average-income households from the owner-occupied housing market in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. At the same time, the ownership of dwellings would focus more strongly on risk investors. This could even increase the risks of the system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u57	Mr President! We members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health made a statement in committee last autumn, suggesting that problems relating to the caps on customers should be clarified. It is good that the government has heard this statement from us. We also proposed there that a separate action programme be drawn up to prevent the enforcement of pensioners. What would you say, Minister, about this? In fact, there has been a large increase in the number of pensioner defaults. The cost of everyday life is often too high, and the increase in prices affects the purse of a low-income person. Mobility, housing, electricity, heating — all of these factors mean that a pensioner often has to take it quickly to cope with the cost of everyday life. There has also been a lot of feedback on home sales. It is very aggressive, and many older people may be the object of a larger purchase, as if by accident. What can we do about all of these, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u58	Mr President! There has been some talk here of high-quality debt, and I thank the Minister for having understood the complexity of the problem. Mr Soinikoski pointed out these root reasons, which have perhaps been less discussed today. I agree that short-lived and consumer credit are a problem, but we must also consider why they are being taken, and for these reasons Mr Soinikoski gave a very good line: there may be a change in the life situation, intoxicants, gambling. There has been no mention of this gambling, for example, here today. So whenever we go to a store or a garage or a kiosk, there are these games of goodwill — get rich in this way, this is the way to get your own economy right. This is one of the root reasons why we should be discussing: why is gambling idealized in this society, why is it such a great thing and it is the way to prosper? If you try or play sports, you'll be envied.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u59	Mr President! It is important to distinguish quick payments from housing debts and, as I said earlier, Finns continue to pay off their housing debts reasonably well. The social challenges associated with relatively small debts are something that this Parliament wants to address. It is very important that we now find the means to support people and remove the default labels on time when things are done, but it is not going to be unduly difficult to buy a dwelling. We already see from the statistics that the rental housing market is increasingly in the hands of foreign investors, and this is the risk that goes hand in hand with many other challenges if we start to limit the opportunities for middle-income people to acquire their own housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u60	Mr President! Many families also over-indebtedness without purpose and unexpectedly. Consider, for example, that the family takes out a reasonable loan and buys a detached house, but then it later turns out to be a home house even if checks and studies have been carried out. Then there will be years of court hearings as to whether you will receive compensation, and somewhere in the middle the money and resources may run out, and the remaining debts and the rocky foot, the house must be demolished. This is how many people today have become over-indebted. Then again, at the other end, there is talk of how young people also get into debt. It is thought that when many children are bullied at school — you have such a bad, cheap phone, you have such clothes, you don’t have fashion clothes — the child thinks he wants to raise his own image, and then he takes a quickie as soon as he gets or buys a new phone with an expensive hire. It is thought that the part payment is not a debt, that it is only payments that will then come forward in the future. This is how you start buying furniture for hire.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u61	Mr President! There has been a very valuable and good debate here on how to tackle over-indebtedness. It has also been pointed out that a working group in the Ministry of Finance has been working on proposals to prevent household indebtedness. It is true that this indebtedness is a big issue and must be addressed, but the main causes of household indebtedness are precisely consumer credit, such as quick buys, and the increased share of mortgage loans. It would therefore be logical to take action to address these problems. On the other hand, Mr President, measures are now being proposed which would lead to a significant tightening of access to mortgages, such as the introduction of a debt ceiling. This stricter regulation would hit the youngest first-time home buyers, whose average age has already risen to 29 years, and I really hope that,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u62	Mr President! Many speeches have dealt with the issue of quick loans with great merit, but it may be that the greater risk of the national economy is linked to the mortgage stock. According to the Finnish Bank’s stability estimate, households’ debts relative to income have doubled over the past 20 years, and time is largely related to mortgages. Monthly instalments have remained low as interest rates are low and loan periods have increased. But if, for one reason or another, housing prices in major cities begin to fall — for example, housing funds are quite a risk — then, of course, banks will start asking for more guarantees and the problem will be complete even if interest rates are reasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u63	Mr President! I too am pleased that there has been a good debate here on an important subject, and I am particularly pleased that the government is actually taking action in a number of ways. As has been said here, prevention is essential. Much is being done specifically for this. For example, this positive credit register and the widespread strengthening of economic competence are ways of helping to prevent these problems from arising. These objectives, which are also included in the Government Programme in relation to the status of over-indebtedness, are of great importance to us in the Left Alliance — for example, the increase in the protection component for enforcement, the reduction in the duration of default marking, financial and debt advice and the improvement of the availability of debt arrangements. These are concrete and effective measures to improve people's lives. Thank you for that. But ultimately, prevention of over-indebtedness is much the same work as poverty reduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u64	Mr President! I am one of the signatories to this important bill for Elomaa. It is clear that the indebtedness of Finnish households must be contained in various ways, and I believe that in the long run, the indebtedness of Finns can be contained by determined measures from the government. For example, improving purchasing power through tax reform and making economic skills compulsory in primary schools would be effective ways of curbing debt. The government should also set an example of responsible financial management. Finland’s central government debt is over 100 billion, and the amount is increasing. It is therefore appropriate to make global economic changes, both in order to curb the indebtedness of ordinary citizens and also in order to curb government debt. Mr President!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u65	Now, Minister Henrikson, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u66	- Thank you. — Thank you for a very good debate. I'll start with the quickie. You are right: we have a problem. And as I said at the beginning, we are now going to follow up on the consequences of this last reform. I have the capacity to go and tighten up marketing legislation if necessary. [Left: Good!] Mr Niikko then asked what will happen to those who are not involved in this class action. Well, it is now that the Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority has published separate guidelines for non-members of the group who may have taken part in a class action on how to demand a reduction in the cost of instant credit. There's an answer to the website. A great deal has also been asked about debt counselling and how we can do better than we do today to prevent people from getting into trouble. I believe that this is an extremely important issue and that is why the government is now investing more in debt counselling than it has done in the past. In practical terms, this means that we are now booking for this year, if I remember correctly, a million more and a little more in the following years, so that we can hire around 19 new employees who are working in debt counselling offices in all the legal aid circles in our country, so this too is a concrete measure that the government has now taken. What is important is that debt counselling is available when it is needed, and that is why we are now considering new ways of working. As I mentioned, this kind of debt counselling chat service has already been opened, and it is today. There have been a lot of questions about a positive credit repository, including payment malfunction marking. Reasonable questions: Why does it last? It will last because it is an extremely difficult legislative project. You will understand that when we talk about the debts of all of our nation — ours — it is no small thing. That positive credit register will have to have all of us — all of us — and, in order for it to be watertight, this preparation must be done with great care. This is a joint project between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. This will also be linked to our income register. That is why it is important for the government to state that this register is maintained by the public authorities. We do not risk this information falling into the wrong hands. But on the day that we have this register, it also gives creditors the opportunity to have an overall view of the financial situation of a person, and then we do not need a record of default or a register in the same way as we do today. It will also be possible to dispense with default marking. That is why these issues are seriously and closely linked. I am sure that we will be able to translate this into more precise terms. But we are not delaying this because it is fun, but because we want to work carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u67	I will give one last speaker on this subject. The first signatory of the discussion initiative, Mr Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u68	Mr President! I thank all the representatives. The speech by each representative was indeed worth ten bucks. And I would also like to thank Minister Henriksson for giving us quite good answers to these questions, and I hope that these progress and reforms will be taken forward there in the government and that they will soon be put into practice. I'm going to bring up the entrepreneurs and the bankrupts. Shame on the economic failure must not mean that the whole future will collapse. This debt arrangement, the debt counselling support for them, does not work equally across the country. Young people, pensioners, quick payments — these are big things, including the quick exit of the default note from the register after the debts have been paid. Minister Henriksson explained why it is taking so long, but I would like to see it speeded up anyway. Once again, thank you. All of us are meant to be able to carry on with our lives and fulfil our obligations, but there is no unnecessary suffering. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u69	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u70	Mr President! Finland has long experience in the use of nuclear energy, and the first commercial reactors were introduced already in Loviisa and Olkiluoto in the 1970s. A key legislative instrument for the use of nuclear energy is the Nuclear Energy Act, which creates national conditions for the safe use of nuclear energy. The basic principle of the law is that the use of nuclear energy must be safe. In this proposal, it is proposed to amend the Nuclear Energy Act and the Safety Clearance Act as regards the security arrangements for the use of nuclear energy. Security arrangements are a key element in the safety of nuclear energy use, particularly in the fight against external threats. As the operating environment and threats change, legislation must also remain involved in this development. It is proposed to introduce legislation that responds to new security threats. It is proposed to provide security personnel employed by authorisation holders with powers to intervene in the movement of unmanned aircraft, the so-called drones. In addition, a provision is proposed which would allow a doctor or a health professional to submit a report if a person who is central to the safety of the institution is considered to be a nuclear or radiological safety hazard. It is also proposed to clarify the provisions on security arrangements in such a way as to better comply with the requirements of the Constitution, for example with regard to the powers of security personnel, the use of force and the use of force. In addition, more precise training requirements for security personnel would be laid down. It is also proposed to specify the provisions on personal security clearances both in the Nuclear Energy Act and in the Safety Clearance Act. Improving the legal protection of security of security of security is a key factor behind the changes, because they have important powers in the institutional environment, which means that there must also be clear rules on the conditions and framework conditions for their use. It is also proposed to amend both the Nuclear Energy Act and the Mining Act due to changes in the general legislation. It is proposed to amend both the provisions on public consultation and appeal in line with the Administrative Law and the Law on Administrative Matters, which entered into force from the beginning of the year. Small changes should be made to the procedures for the alert, but the amendments to the appeal are technical. It is also proposed to provide a small clarification to complement the implementation of the European Union's Nuclear Waste Directive to the extent that nuclear waste samples are being exported outside Finland for research purposes. In addition, it is proposed that individual changes, mainly of a technical nature, be carried out by law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u71	And then the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u72	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. This legislative package makes minor changes to the alert, as the Minister said. Instead, the Government Programme has committed itself to reforming the legislation on mines in an environmentally sound way. One of the key elements of the reform is to improve people's influence. This issue remains unresolved in a number of respects, and it is noted that the Mining Law Working Group will continue to work on how to improve people's opportunities for influence when we know that the scope of influence is often very large. Nor can it be assumed that all people are actively following the Internet. Different means of informing people must be ensured. It is important that the preparation goes in such a way as to restore public confidence in officials and also in this Parliament and the Government, including in relation to the Mining Act. At the moment, confidence is very weak. For example, when a survey compares people’s estimates of different industries and industries, the mining industry is getting the worst results by far. It is clear that if around 95% of Finns do not trust our legislation, then we will be on the right track in the Government Programme with regard to its thorough reform. It is also important to protect people's property. When a person works hard to build himself a home or a cottage or invests in his business, it is completely unreasonable that only a reporting threat may arise in a very large area and it is completely uncertain whether the business he represents will be possible to do so. The current Mining Act largely walks beyond all other interests and rights. When drafting legislation is taken forward, it should be noted that on 16 January the Chancellor of Justice pointed out that a report on the mining law was commissioned last season from a law firm that assisted mining companies, which is not mentioned here by name. This observation states that the Supervisory Board of the Finnish Bar Association has, following a notification made by the Chancellor of Justice on the basis of Article 6(3) of the Law of Law, assessed the procedure of lawyers in the case in question in terms of compliance with good practice and the independence and accessibility of the lawyer’s duty of loyalty. In its decision of 26 September 2019, the Supervisory Board stated that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy had been aware of the previous and existing mandates of the law firm in question, with ties to the mining sector and mining companies, when ordering a study of the law firm. For this reason, inter alia, the Supervisory Board considered that the conduct of lawyers did not conflict with good law practice. However, the ruling on the matter of supervision gave meaning to the fact that the Ministry, aware of the past and current mandates of the law firm with Canadian mining companies, ordered a report from the legal firm in question. According to Attorney General Tuomas Pöyst, the Ministry of Justice, which follows the principles of good administration, cannot, as a justification for its own conduct, rely on the obligation of an outsider, in this case a lawyer, to take into account the aspects of accessibility and impartiality. The Ministry must act in accordance with the principle of objectivity, and according to Thomas Pöyst's view, the Ministry must ensure that its activities are not only appropriate but also impartial and that they are outwards. This led to this challenge. Now that the Government Programme has indeed included, at the very title level, the reform of the Mining Act as a red thread or green thread, the improvement of environmental protection and, in particular, the promotion of people's rights and opportunities for influence, it is clear that the preparation must be wide-ranging in order to remedy these issues. It is important that consideration be given to how ordinary people get better protection for their property and appropriate compensation in an area of influence that may be very large: even in kilometres, as we have seen in some cases, with dust and, by the way, with this investment threat, which will then be most affected by this exploration phase, when we know that less than 10% of our surface area is currently reserved for mineral exploration or mining operations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u73	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Thank you to Minister Lintilä for his comprehensive presentation and to Mrs Holopainen for bringing out these larger figures relating to the Mining Act. This government proposal proposes updates to the Nuclear Energy Act, the Safety Clearance Act and the Mining Act. The need for change stems from the continuous development of a security culture, the preparation of new types of threats and the updates required by the Constitution, the general legislation and this Directive. After all, this is a very broad package of detailed and rather technical regulations, which, by their very nature, have a rather moderate economic impact, and the current basic principles for the organisation of security arrangements are generally effective, i.e. there are no major lines of principle. The proposal is well founded, the consultation feedback is well taken into account, and it is important to ensure that the legislation is timely, particularly in such matters of security. At the same time, however, it should be noted that legislation relating to nuclear energy is in need of further review and updating. Climate change and the biodiversity crisis cannot be solved by technology alone, but without sufficient emission-free and environmentally-friendly energy production these challenges cannot be overcome. Nuclear power is an important part of a sustainable emission-free energy palette alongside wind and sun, for example. Nuclear power is Europe's most significant low-emission power source at the moment, and the fastest and most comprehensive decarbonisation results of electricity systems have been achieved, as a rule, by using nuclear power at least to some extent. The need for further global nuclear power generation is also reflected in the IPCC’s 1.5-degree special report for 2018, and the European Commission’s climate vision in practice also requires significant additional investment in the sector. Without nuclear power, the need for excess capacity and control power in energy storage and the limited nature of sustainable biomass will arise very quickly from the variable production of wind and solar power. The transition to low carbon in industry requires more emission-free energy, and when it does, it would also help to improve the processing rate of the Finnish forest industry when it could afford to control wood burning for better use. Technically, nuclear power production could be increased from the current level. Nuclear energy is a reliable way to produce electricity as part of a versatile energy palette, and applications for heat production are also being developed. In Finland, nuclear power enjoys broad acceptance, and Finnish nuclear energy and safety expertise are valued internationally. In recent times, particular interest in new types of small-scale reactors has increased, while their technological development and the conditions for commercialisation are also advancing in the world. At the same time, while Finland is investing in energy efficiency, wind power, battery technology, heat storage and their development, we can serve as an example of a country where energy policy is based on open-minded climate and diversity objectives ahead and keep all tools in the pack. This presupposes that the regulatory framework governing energy production takes into account the different benefits and disadvantages equally and allows for the rapid scaling of low carbon energy infrastructure. The current nuclear legislation has largely been drafted from the point of view of large light water reactors and their generation of electricity. Similarly, the regulations and nuclear safety instructions of the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Centre have been designed and written from the point of view of large light water reactors that are located far away from the settlement and intended for electricity generation. These are therefore slightly suitable for enabling and promoting small reactors, high-speed series production and new uses of nuclear energy such as district heating and industrial heat processes. With all this in mind, it is great and very important that in October 2019 the Ministry of Employment and the Economy set up a working group to prepare for the overall reform of the Nuclear Energy Act and to explore how the regulation on the design, construction, use and decommissioning of nuclear installations can be developed in such a way that the overall benefit of society is best realised. The task force is due to finish its work in June, and I would have asked Minister Lintilä at this point how and with what timetable the ministry has prepared to implement the proposals of the working group when they are received in the summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u74	Mr President! Safety and operational security are key prerequisites for the use of nuclear energy. Here we are now making good clarifications to this law, and at least it was a surprise to me — when I cannot see myself as any kind of expert or specialist in this nuclear energy law — that the explanatory statement states that, for example, the eligibility criteria of a security person are not currently laid down at the level of the law. It was a surprise to me that, in such a way, this is not the case in a critical environment. Furthermore, it is stated that the Nuclear Energy Act does not currently specify the date of commencement and termination of the obligation of the holder of an authorisation for the use of security personnel. Pretty big things in my mind, and I'm glad they're going to be fixed here. As far as achieving this objective of carbon neutrality is concerned, we will probably have to re-evaluate our relationship with nuclear power if, in fact, these objectives are to be achieved, and then it will probably become a further debate in this Chamber. With interest, I look forward to how the Greens in charge of government see this in this changing situation, yet it has been shown that nuclear energy is one of the safest and most climate-friendly forms of energy production. Well, now it's also in Finland, the safety level is being revised in all respects, and that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u75	Mr President! Indeed, this government proposal we are discussing is of a very technical nature, but it is certainly appropriate to say a few words about nuclear power and energy production on this point. After all, this government proposal deals with these small aspects of nuclear safety. After all, nuclear safety is certainly one of the best in the West in Finland, at the best level. It is also a fact that, as we all know, this particular nuclear power plant construction project has been delayed for several years, and at this point it is also possible to ask a question when Mr Lintilä, the Minister for Economic Affairs for Atomic Energy, is here, what his view of the progress of Olkiluoto 3 is at present. In any case, as far as nuclear energy is concerned, I must admit that I have changed my mind. Only through the production of nuclear power will we really be able to respond to climate change and really fight climate change. This fact has gradually taken over in Finland too, and the people have also taken up this fact. Unfortunately, this is not the case in all European countries. Last week I was at the Citizens' Info of the Parliament to discuss Fortum's Uniper store. There were representatives of various non-governmental organisations that strongly criticised Fortum and Uniper’s activities. On that occasion, when I made a comment that this is not Fortum's fault and not even Uniper's fault, it is simply Germany's energy policy, the abandonment of nuclear power, that has been a completely misguided solution in terms of climate change and combating it and dealing with energy policy – that is what all these problems are about. And they also affect Finland: after all, Finland is now faced with increasing use of wind power and other variable-power renewable energies, either to produce more and more control power itself or to buy it abroad, as is currently very much done. In the future, however, it seems that less and less of this hydropower can be bought in Norway, because they obviously have a desire to sell it to Germany and the British islands, where, due to the increase in wind power production, there is an increasing need for this controlling power. This also justifies this nuclear policy in Finland, which sees it as a key part of energy production, although it is also in certain kinds of difficulties at a time when renewable energy, especially wind power, has dropped the price of electricity. However, these problems are all those for which solutions can be sought. I think that Mr Harjanne has just made a very good speech in which he raised these various solutions relating to electricity storage and smart grids, which are absolutely essential for adapting Finland and indeed the world to this electrification and for an ever greater part of energy production and energy consumption to be electricity. And as far as this is concerned, how will Finland be able to cope with this: of course, as a small but large-scale electricity-intensive country, we need different means of storing electricity, but we also need the hydropower capacity we have at the moment, and we need this nuclear power capacity, of course, in order to safeguard electricity power. Its acceptability has improved and I believe that, now that awareness of climate change and its consequences has grown, it will continue to remain at a good level, and I hope that in many other countries too, such as Sweden and Germany, this same view will take on more and more space.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u76	Mr President! Indeed, the amendments proposed in the Government's proposal to the Mining Act are mainly technical, and the need for these changes has arisen from the changed general legislation. Here again, legislators should be vigilant. Mining is a source of great emotion, but it also offers great opportunities. Up-to-date legislation is of paramount importance in the mining sector. We see the mining of Kainuusaha as a major employer and a regional importer of wealth, such as Terrafame: almost 700 jobs and by-products through subcontractors. We are aiming for a sustainable growth of the extractive cluster that would combine research and development in the sector and business. In line with the principles of the circular economy, new products should be developed from the side streams of the extractive industry, and this is already happening all the time. Excavating technology, mining know-how has good export prospects, along with extractive products. The main challenge is the availability of skilled labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u77	Mr President! Updating the Nuclear Energy Act, as well as correcting the Safety Clearing House Act and amending the Mining Act in general are extremely important laws for Finland today, not just for Finland but for the whole world, in the sense that we need to ensure that clean energy can be produced cheaply, so that we can, of course, remain a welfare state and at the same time develop this beloved country for the better. If we get into a situation where energy increases or is not available, it is the worst situation for the Finnish economy. That is why, of course, nuclear energy has a very important role to play now and in the future. We have done a lot of research, a lot of groundbreaking work, to increase the safety of nuclear energy. Finland is certainly the leading country in the countries that use nuclear energy, without doubt. We have solved the final disposal of nuclear waste in such a good way that it has aroused great enthusiasm and interest in the world, and it is obviously becoming a certain export asset to Finland when we ourselves have expertise in this area. In this respect, Finland should continue along the same lines. When energy is produced, it is important that it is also climate-friendly energy, i.e. emission-free. However, we are talking a lot now about energy policy that is not good for the interests of Finland. I remember those days when that big decision was made in the 2010s. At that time, Mauri Pekkarinen, the predecessor of Minister Mika Lintilä, was in charge of the task. After all, there were parties leaving the government when a nuclear solution was not allowed. Climate change was a brutal policy as it is today, i.e. it would no longer be possible to use domestic energy sources, or it would have been somehow declared to be a pollution and destruction of the world by some other calculation. With interest I look forward to the situation that, now that Germany has resolved this matter in such a way as to stop using both nuclear power and coal power, what is the miracle of the German Ruhr region in which those factories operate? It is clear that when Germany is already fully dependent on the production of the metal industry, quite completely, the enormous standard of living that Germany has will certainly not be achieved by setting up solar cells everywhere and thus making the Ruhr steel industry run smoothly. If I could see that day, then I'll buy the most expensive German sightseeing trip and go see the miracle. Hopefully, God will grant me so many days of life that I can see that day — I am afraid I will not see that day in this time. What is important now, however, is that Finland considers its own interest in this matter so far-reaching that it manages both renewable energy, nuclear energy and all other forms of energy by providing us with a permanent and sustainable package to support the Finnish industry. Of course, the palette must include the use of energy wood, including peat to an appropriate extent. I cannot understand this debate about peat as a result of its being set as a target and, at the same time, a huge amount of coal is burning in this city right now. Nobody's talking about it — nobody's talking about it. They keep it quiet almost like for the wrong money, you can't even talk about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u82	Mr President! Representative Hoskonen's word of comfort for the energy needs of the Germans: we Finns will then come with a state-owned company to secure electricity produced there with coal power. That being carefree, the son of Germany, yes, the Finnish saves the need for electricity in that regard. It is perfectly justified that we have this own nuclear power, and our legislation needs to be updated. I believe and trust in Finnish expertise that we have enjoyed in that Satakunta. That construction project has been under the magnifying glass of the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Centre, and we know how the next project is being carried further northward on the coast. And when our legislation is as good as it is, I dare to rely on Finnish nuclear expertise and on our legislation to be developed as required by our own expertise. For this too, thanks must be given to the government for not just letting things go, but developing legislation along with them. Since the amendment to the Mining Act is very technical and Mr Myllykoski is not a technician, I am not going to speculate on it here. It could easily fall on the path of catching up and starting to talk about the mining law, but this is not a question of reforming the mining law; it is a very technical change. I believe and hope that our legislation will be up-to-date. The Minister's presentation also echoed the confidence that the legislation would be reformed as the need for legislation to be reformed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u83	And now, Minister Lintilä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u84	Mr President! I am not going to comment on these, if I may say, somewhat sidetracked debates on future laws or broader political images. These couple of questions about the actual law to be presented: Mr Harjanne asked about the work and timetable of the Liisa Heikinheimo Task Force. I'd like to recall that the report will be handed over by midsummer. There will then be an evaluation of whether there are any entities or sections to be set up. At this point, this is the information. Congressman Honkonen, you asked about Olkiluoto 3. This may be a difficult place, and in this, the minister is a bit dependent on public information. In my opinion, the intention would be to get it into operation this year and commercial activity would begin next year, but the project is a long one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u85	The debate and proceedings in this context shall be suspended and the proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after the other items of the agenda have been examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u86	We will now resume the debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u87	Mr President! The Finnish view of nuclear power is probably the most healthy and climate-conscious in the world. Almost half of Finns welcome nuclear power — right and sensible. Finns prefer clean domestic nuclear power rather than energy produced with Russian coal. Clean, efficient and safe domestic nuclear energy production is the lifeblood of Finland's electrifying society. Furthermore, even from a global perspective, the IPCC believes that climate change cannot be contained without nuclear power and its increase. Nuclear power is therefore essential. Finnish nuclear regulation and nuclear safety control have been described as the most stringent in the world — for which there are certainly good grounds. The package of amendments now under discussion concerns changes and clarifications on the security arrangements for the use of nuclear energy. It is mainly a question of technical changes. Great lines will not be changed. Nuclear safety must continue to be ensured in time. As Finnish society becomes more electrified, the importance of nuclear power will increase considerably. According to one estimate, the public output of the industry alone suggests that electricity consumption will increase from about 88 TWh to about 130 TWh by 2045. In practice, this means the risk of electricity shortages. The same problem, the risk of electricity shortages, concerns the entire Nordic electricity market. The completion of the third reactor in Olkiluoto is very welcome, but it alone does not solve the increase in the need for electricity. In fact, even Olkiluoto 3 and Hanhikivi's reactor as a whole are not enough to cover this growing need for electricity. In addition to the new large nuclear power units, Finland must ambitiously move on with small nuclear power, which offers new opportunities to cut emissions cost-effectively in new locations such as district heat production and manufacturing. In recent days, SMRs have also received more attention in the media, and this is good. These new generation nuclear power plants may make use of serial production, highly simple technical solutions and modular construction to improve costs and safety. SMR reactors provide an economically and environmentally efficient solution to reduce emissions rapidly in a wide range of sectors. Together with Mr Harjante, we have submitted an initiative for action to promote small reactors. The legislation on nuclear energy needs to be broadly reformed in order to remove barriers to small nuclear power. Indeed, the current nuclear energy law is largely written from the point of view of large reactors, as are the regulations of the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Centre and the guidelines for nuclear safety. All in all, nuclear energy regulation is poorly suited to the authorisation of small reactors, and the situation with regard to the new uses of nuclear energy that these enable is not desirable. I would like to thank the Ministry of Employment and the Economy for launching a comprehensive reform of the nuclear legislation and for examining the issue of the authorisation of small nuclear power in this work. For example, I do not believe that the parliamentary decision-making procedure is appropriate for the authorisation of such series-produced small nuclear power, but that lighter procedures, such as type-approval, are needed. Unfortunately, the timetable for reform seems to be slow if it is not completed this period, as the responsible official has said. After all, small nuclear power technology is already being developed and commercialised in the world. It is also being developed in Finland at LUT University. Climate preoccupation requires more than nice Government Programme goals. Realistic and profitable technology is needed. Smoking does not stop by recording the goal in a paper. It's got to be a replacement technology. According to experts, achieving climate goals without small nuclear power is difficult, even impossible. Emissions from district heat production in particular are like low-hanging fruit. The reduction of these emissions is possible without the decline of Finnish everyday life and the need to change the way of life, which means that the situation is different from, for example, transport emission reductions, which are very difficult to achieve. Based on VTT's calculations, small nuclear power could even make district heat cheaper. Therefore, reducing emissions does not have to be costly to maximise misery. This is a really great concrete opportunity for Finland to do climate action, and this opportunity must be seized.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u88	Mr President! This legislative package also deals with the field of influence of the mining area and information on it. In the past, there was also a little discussion about the structure of the economy more generally, and it is good to say in this debate that Finland is certainly not worth competing for the low-cost production of basic raw materials. Nor do we implement it in ways that are labour-intensive. Instead, we should look at the direction in which the change in the structure of the economy has taken us. When we look at what are the largest companies in the world at the moment, they are related to digitalisation, social media, the IT sector, and perhaps in the future, the biggest companies will be artificial intelligence applications and so on. If we in Finland get a little bit of the RD input that these global players are making, for example, then we have a very good chance of surviving as a nation, but instead, if we somehow convince ourselves that we are investing in basic raw material production or extraction, we have a very bad chance of surviving in this global competition. To this end, we also need effective mining legislation, one that does not allow us to use unique minerals at the expense of nature, or the fact that people who are affected by the effects of the mine or exploration are not sufficiently informed or able to influence whether there is a mining or a prioritizing of any other industry, such as whether nature is valued, whether clean water is valued. It is also a very central part of the government's mining legislation. Small changes have now been made. The application for authorisation shall be made available However, it remains very unclear who the party concerned is. Paragraph 1 contains the sentence: ‘The authorising authority shall issue an alert to particular persons concerned by the information,in particular those concerned. “ Who will then be those involved who can make a difference if they do not like the permit, and who will be consulted is the question that remains unresolved. It would be important to have a sufficiently broad definition of those concerned, because the effects of exploration are also very extensive, not to mention the fact that the mining project is being carried out. Dust, noise and particulate matter go very far, for example, in lakes and fell areas. They have a significant impact on other industries and on the value of real estate. It is very important that all sufferers or those living in the affected area have the opportunity to influence their concerns. It is certainly not possible to avoid conflict in such matters of land use. In fact, it is a matter of space-consuming business or of basic raw material production, and we should not pretend that we can do everything in a sustainable way. As Syke says, metal mines always have water effects, and the lakes in Finland are not particularly deep, so salting, for example, is a genuine problem. The value of clean water as a natural resource is also growing. Small corrections have been made here, but it remains unresolved how to improve the opportunities for influence, as promised in the Government Programme. And it would be very important for the future of our national economy that we have the right knowledge of the direction in which this industrial structure has developed and the direction in which we can continue to take by investing in and investing in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u89	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 2/2020 vp. Let's go talk to him. — Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr Hoskonen. - Looks like he's gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u90	Mr President! Let's move on to another topic. Indeed, there has also been a wide-ranging public debate on plastic and related environmental and health problems in recent years. The debate on plastic is also strongly linked to a disposable culture and over-consumption, which are also key problems in the fight against climate change. One growing concern has also been the presence of microplastics in Finland, i.e. very small plastic particles. Microplastics are added to several products, such as cosmetics, medicines and paints. The hearings in the Committee on the Environment also raised the issue of various plastic charcoals for crafts, such as glitter glues and glitters — which are very unnecessary. Microplastics also come out of all kinds of plastic products, such as man-made clothing, dishes, car tyres and artificial grass in football fields. Now we are discussing a citizens' initiative to ban the import, sale and manufacture of cosmetic products containing microplastics in Finland. I would therefore like once again to thank those who took the initiative and the signatories for an important initiative which has contributed to raising awareness of microplastics and promoting measures to abandon them in cosmetics. We in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have had a thorough examination of the citizens' initiative. A public consultation was held and the committee consulted extensively with experts. The report, which shares the concerns of the citizens' initiative, was adopted unanimously in committee. This is a good example of how important the citizens' initiative is. Mr President! Microplastic is a global environmental problem. Microplastics are transported to nature and water bodies, for example, with dust in the air and among waste and waste water even here in Finland, where the power of the wastewater treatment plant is at a high level. Plastic is also produced when plastic waste that has ended up in the wild breaks down. It is no longer possible to collect the nature of the microplastic, but its accumulation in the environment is cumulative, and microplastics end up, especially with fish dishes, but also from packaging and even from drinking water to the human body. Limited data on the impact of microplastics on human health are currently available. This is what the committee drew attention to and calls for the need to increase research and monitoring data on sources and routes of microplastics, as well as on the impact on the environment and human health. Mr President! Fortunately, the solution to the problem of microplastics is not only based on our own national legislation, but has also been addressed at EU level. Within the framework of the Commission’s plastic strategy and REACH, the European Chemicals Agency is currently preparing a proposal for a restriction on deliberately added microplastics. The proposal covers not only cosmetics but also detergents, fertilisers, plant protection products and biocides. The restriction proposal includes a ban on placing on the market products containing more than 0,01 % by weight of microplastics. In addition, a uniform definition is proposed for microplastics and micro beads, which they do not currently have. This restriction is expected to enter into force during 2021, which is next year. For microplastics used as abrasive ingredients, the restriction would enter into force immediately, for rinse-off cosmetic products the transition period would be four years and for cosmetic products left in the hair for six years. Mr President! Finland also has its own national plastic road map, which was implemented in 2018 and continues to work together with the Ministry of the Environment and various parties. The plastic road map contains proposals for measures to address the challenges of plastics and also microplastics and to prevent harm caused by plastics. The Road Map promises to launch a research project and strengthen international research cooperation on the harmful effects of plastics, in particular microplastics, as well as to develop solutions for the recovery of microplastics and sludges containing microplastics. It is therefore important that we monitor the progress and results of these measures in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Mr President! As I said at the outset, the citizens' initiative has played an important role in raising the debate on the environmental and health impacts of microplastics. It is a great thing that this has progressed at the same time at EU level, so that we can introduce a more comprehensive regulation of microplastics than cosmetics. It is important to ensure that the Agency's proposed restriction remains rigorous. In this way, the objective of the citizens' initiative is being achieved through the EU and national legislation is not needed at this stage. However, the debate on microplastics will certainly not stop there and, as I said, more research data is needed. Microplastics added to cosmetics and other products are only a small part of the global microplastic problem. However, the legislation makes it easy to start with those products to which microplastics have been added separately, as they allow alternatives to microplastics to be developed. A bigger problem is the use of microplastics that are loose and accessible to the environment from plastic products, for example, car tyres and textiles. Both the EU Commission’s plastic strategy and Finland’s own plastic road map seek solutions to these problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u91	The chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Hoskonen, is now also here physically and is able to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u92	Mr President! Thank you for understanding. I went to sound service right there. From a politician when a voice goes, it's always a serious situation — the flu. The issue of microplastics is perhaps not one of the biggest environmental issues in the world, but very serious, because in the end we do not know much about the health effects of microplastics, for example, 20 years from now. Now the problem has arisen, and that is why this citizens' initiative was taken and it came to Parliament, and in this context I would like to thank once again the active people who raised this issue and made it possible for this citizens' initiative to take place. Thank you very much for that, and we heard them at an open hearing when this matter was discussed. The citizens' initiative, which is timely and valuable, is part of the national debate on microplastics, which is also, of course, international. At the same time, it is proposed to introduce a law prohibiting the import, sale and manufacture of cosmetic products containing microplastics in Finland. The committee studied the initiative carefully in consultation with experts. Microplastics have been on the table from the point of view of environmental and health protection. There is little reliable research data and it is therefore necessary to obtain more data in order to be able to take the right measures to prevent adverse reactions. In addition to cosmetics, potential sources of release of microplastics include fertilisers, detergents and detergents, paints, coatings and medicines. However, the amount of microplastics in the environment is most affected by particulate matter from products containing larger plastics. These are caused by car tire wear, artificial grass fields outside, and textile washing, for example. It is perhaps a surprise to many of us that different microplastic beads are released in connection with the washing of clothes in huge quantities, and when clothes are washed a lot in the world, the problem really is global. In the case of cosmetic products covered by the citizens' initiative, there is legislation in force to ensure the safety of cosmetic products from the point of view of both health and the protection of the environment. In addition, the European cosmetics industry has voluntarily abandoned the use of almost all washing and peeling micro beads in rinse-off products. On this point, the committee heard both experts and representatives of the cosmetics industry, and the message was no different from that that this has happened, and one could thank the cosmetics industry for having taken a responsible stand on their own initiative. In the European Union, legislation on the restriction of the use of microplastics is currently being prepared, covering not only cosmetics but also detergents, fertilisers, plant protection products and plant protection products. It is estimated that the restriction will enter into force during 2021. The proposal is designed to include transitional periods in order to allow operators to adapt to the new requirements. The purpose of the citizens' initiative is good, but the Committee on the Environment believes that the European Union legislation currently under preparation does not make it appropriate to take national legislative action on this issue. In addition to legislation, important measures are also voluntary action by industry and other actors to prevent the adverse effects of microplastics. It is also important to monitor and develop the filtering of microplastics in the treatment of waste water and waste water. It should also be pointed out to the honourable House that the Environment Committee visited the wastewater treatment plant in Viikinmäki, and it was very comforting to know that very modern, modern sewage treatment technology also eliminates microplastics, and that there is an excellent research and advance in this city as well, and of course universities and also technical universities are taking part in these studies with merit. It is important that we develop technology and that we also clean up these waste water more and more. The situation in the Hulevesi is a little more difficult because it is difficult to control it when it rains, for example, when it takes a huge amount of water directly into the sea in this city and it is not cleaned in any way. I am also concerned about the situation in the seas, ladies and gentlemen, because huge amounts of plastic are dumped into the seas. We can even see it on our own summer cottage beaches. There are plastic bags and stuff on the beaches, and they slowly grind into tiny pieces of plastic in the water, and then we get them, for example, in connection with fish food. The problem is a global one, and it is a very serious problem, but I am delighted that Parliament has taken its role responsibly in this matter and is going to further develop these systems in such a way that the number of microplastics can be reduced. We can no longer get out of them because this problem has been spread around Finland and around the world. One survey was last summer that some Finnish pond and lake had been sampled, and no matter how clean the lake was, there were already microplastics, which means that the problem is already here in the middle of us. That is why it is worth taking this matter very seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u93	Mr President! Thank you for the important thing for those who have taken the initiative. The initiative showed its strength again when it came here for the hearing and the committee heard the experts. Otherwise, we would not have dealt so extensively with the subject here in plenary either. Fortunately, things have progressed in this case, not quickly enough, but, especially in the EU, plastic has been taken seriously and it has been said that solutions have to be found. The use of non-renewable resources must be reduced. For microplastics, it is possible to replace the proportion of these ingredients relatively easily in cosmetics, for example, so it is clear that we are on the right track. It is only a matter of certain practices, which have led to the continuation for a long time of such a completely irresponsible approach, in which microplastics end up in various sources, including watercourses. Water problems are both global and local. It is good to note that even in Finland, although we have a lot of lakes, lakes are reasonably low, so that emissions from consumers and industry, both microplastics and salting and other emissions, are collected. It is good to watch how Finland’s own plastic road map and its preparation progress. Sometimes preparations for important things are too slow. That is why I hope that this committee will continue to monitor the issues raised by this commendable initiative and that we will be able to come back as soon as possible and we will have more to say about all that this national work will do and what the EU will continue to do in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u94	Mr President! The citizens' initiative to ban microplastics in cosmetics is important and it is great that this initiative has allowed us to deal with the problem of microplastics here in Parliament. Thank you again to the authors and signatories of the initiative on behalf of the Left Alliance. This microplastic problem is indeed real and it is global. The UN estimates that our seas contain up to 51 trillion microplastic pieces. This amount can be illustrated by the fact that it is more than we have stars in our galaxy. Somehow this is a challenge to relate when such a great deal is at stake. In any case, however, the Left Alliance welcomes the restriction of the sale and manufacture of microplastics through legislation. We want to see no accumulation of microplastic in our environment, especially in the seas, nor in our bodies, as has been said here. Well, now we in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have really been able to study this matter thoroughly. We heard a lot about how the industry is already working to reduce microplastics. However, I personally believe that if we have a problem, it cannot be left solely to the goodwill of companies or to consumers. For example, the Finnish Environment Agency has also stated that international experience shows that legislation is an effective way to reduce microplastics. It is indeed the case, as has been said here, that this problem has now been widely identified and action has been taken. This is therefore an excellent thing for us and, of course, for those who have taken this initiative. In other words, this legislative process is progressing in the EU. The EU will also move ahead with this issue at a faster pace than would be required to draw up this national legislation. Through the EU, we will also have more comprehensive microplastic legislation than this citizens' initiative is proposing. In other words, we have a positive problem here or, more simply, we can say that this issue is being dealt with: it is being dealt with through the EU, and it is being dealt with even more comprehensively. Indeed, this proposed restriction in the EU's preparation includes a ban on the placing on the market of products containing microplastics, which includes not only cosmetics, but also detergents, fertilisers, plant protection products and biocides, as has already been mentioned here in the first speech. Furthermore, it is good that a uniform definition of microplastics and micro beads is now being proposed through the EU, because there is no such definition at the moment. When, at the beginning of last year, the European Chemicals Agency, ECHA, proposed to restrict the use of microplastics by law, this was indeed not known when this citizens' initiative was launched. This ECHA proposal would cover 400 tonnes of plastic in quantity over the next 20 years. According to the Guardian, this would mean a 90% reduction in the use of microplastics, i.e. this is actually a significant issue and good legislation that is progressing. When this was discussed in committee, it was very important to me to ensure that this EU legislation actually progresses when it comes to the matter in preparation, and I asked both the representatives of the ministry and the experts during the committee debate about this and asked when this public hearing took place. A very broad and unanimous response was received that separate national legislation is not necessary in this situation for these reasons, which I have just explained. For example, this is what the Finnish Environment Agency said when they gave their own expert opinion on this. In other words, on the basis of these answers, we can now count on this matter to be dealt with through the EU, and that is why we have here a unanimous report from the Environment Committee. In other words, the Committee on the Environment shares the concerns of the citizens' initiative and these objectives of the initiative are being realised, they are being implemented through this EU legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u95	Mr President! That detail about these constellations of our galaxy mentioned by Mr Kivelä was quite interesting. It would be nice to have a little more detailed information about who might have counted it. All right, then, here's the thing. First of all, thank you to the citizens' initiative makers. This has been a very important thing to bring all the way to Parliament through the citizens' initiative. They say knowledge increases pain. Perhaps I would modernize a little of this: knowledge increases duty and responsibility. In this case, in the case of microplastics, the more specific we can be about the different types of environmental damage, the more responsible we will be in the face of these issues, because most often it is that people produce almost all the things that have an adverse effect on the environment. I would also like to thank the committee for its thorough work on this matter. I'm sure this has been interesting for them too. And, in fact, here I was excited that we should go to the committee's website and look at these various expert opinions, because this is such an interesting topic. You don't think in the morning when you're washing your hair, you're producing some kind of microcreasing that's gonna destroy the environment. Do you think we should thin out the hairwash? Mr President! The committee's conclusion is also a good one, and this EU legislation, which is now coming up fast, guarantees that it is indeed moving forward. I would like to see more things of this kind coming through citizens' initiatives, if otherwise Parliament does not understand, so that information can increase and expand, even if it increases the responsibility for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u96	Mr President! Indeed, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection we had a good and thorough consultation on this. Of course, as we have already heard, because of the European Union's processes, we are not now in agreement with this citizens' initiative. It is extremely good that this has been addressed at EU level and that this amendment to REACH and other processes are under way, because this problem is a global one. It is, of course, difficult to manage this by purely domestic means. In fact, I see two clear steps forward here. When you look at these major sources of emissions of microplastics, in Finland they are likely to be these microplastics that come with the wastewater. Then there are car tires, of course there are different types of waste that, however, end up in water bodies, and there are many others on a global scale. These should simply be governed by legislation and disposed of materials that cause discharges to water bodies. Another major part of this solution is, of course, the bioeconomy and new bioproducts, which can directly replace traditional plastic products. Well, perhaps if the third mentioned, I am inclined to think in such a way that as far as the various plastic packagings that are full of the world are concerned, we from here in Finland and from the European Union must assume that all plastic packaging must be standardised. In the same way that we have a bottle-pant system in time — and it has been created to work well — plastic packaging must be standardized, as it enables better collection and management of plastics and also recycling of plastics. I believe that this is one of the key ways in which these microplastic emissions can also be controlled. Of course, corporate responsibility is important. As we heard here, Finnish cosmetics manufacturers no longer use much of these microplastic granules. If a representative of Kivisaari or even a representative Laukkanen uses peeling cream in the evening, so you can be sure that these microplastic granules are no longer present and can be used with relief. Mr President! There has indeed been a good debate on this and it is a matter of enormous importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u97	Mr President! I would like to thank the authors of the citizens' initiative for raising a very important issue and discussing it. Microplastic is a major environmental problem, as we have heard here. Microplastics are increasingly ending up in nature and water bodies, with serious consequences for the whole ecosystem. However, microplastics do not only touch nature. According to recent studies, it is also found in human bodies through bottled water, tap water and fish nutrition, according to WWF, on average up to 250 grams per year. The reduction of microplastics must be effective at European Union level. REACH provides an opportunity for effective and wide-ranging action to tackle the problem of microplastics. The EU is a huge market and the decisions taken at its level will enable us to influence the future not only of Europe but also of the world as a whole. The EU Chemicals Agency's preparatory restriction proposal covers a wide range of added microplastics in various legislations, making the activities more comprehensive and effective. This restriction proposal therefore deserves full support. It is important that we discuss the role of cosmetics as a source of microplastic emissions. This will make consumers more aware and make their practices more environmentally friendly. At the same time, it is good to remember that the vast majority of microplastics end up in the environment because of clothing and traffic. Microplastics are removed from all man - made clothing when washing laundry, and they end up in watercourses. Fiber-fibre clothing and other textiles are the main sources of microplastic emissions, and unfortunately they account for 65% of all the textiles we use. Microplastic emissions would be significantly reduced if natural fibres were used instead of man-made fibres. Unfortunately, however, their market share for textiles is still very low. Product development that promotes the use of natural fibres would be wise to consider when allocating research funding. The right disposal of textiles is also very important. It requires responsibility on the part of companies and a strong focus on the circular economy and sustainable use of textiles in political decision-making. Global efforts are needed to reduce microplastics. The WWF has called for the closure of plastic waste at sea to be stopped by a binding UN-led agreement. Global problems are best solved through international cooperation, so the agreement should definitely be pursued by all means. While action at EU level and international agreements are important, you too, Mr Government, have a responsibility to combat microplastic problems. The goals set in the plastic road map must be implemented with determination and care that Finland is a global leader in reducing microplastics and plastic waste. We will be able to discuss the sustainable use and recycling of plastics further as the Government submits its proposals for the EU waste regulation package to Parliament later this year. Hopefully, increased public awareness and the legislative measures under way will provide us with better ways of addressing the environmental problems caused by microplastics.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u98	Mr President! At the very beginning, I too would like to thank all those who have collected names and worked to ensure that we have a citizens' initiative in this Chamber today, the aim of which is to ban the use of microplastics in cosmetics. I personally have a say in the work of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and so I have also been able, through the work of the committee, to deal with this initiative, as many of us who have spoken in this Chamber today about this initiative. As has already been demonstrated, in committee work we did not directly support the spirit of the initiative on the ban here and now, but felt that the EU legislation under preparation was a sufficient legislative measure at this stage. There is therefore a proposal under REACH for a restriction on added microplastics, covering not only cosmetics but also detergents, fertilisers, plant protection products and biocides. In committee, we considered it important to increase research and monitoring data on sources and routes of microplastics, as well as the impact on the environment and human health. We stressed the importance of wastewater treatment in reducing water emissions from microplastics. As the microplastic problem is difficult to manage, more research data is definitely needed. To achieve a safe and healthy environment, clean water bodies and groundwater play a very important role both for us and for the natural ecosystem. It can be said that in Finland the cleaning of waste water is at a good level, but we still have room for improvement. In addition to minimising microplastic loads, emphasis should be placed on efficient waste water treatment, minimising agricultural loads and protecting groundwater areas. When we talk about microplastics, we need to remember the extent of the problems and, based on existing information, the main sources of emissions, such as marine plastic waste, fishing nets, textile fibres and, among other things, road surfaces. Finally, I would like to mention that we also have a national programme, called the plastic road map, to which the previous representative referred. This includes proposals for measures to address the challenges of plastics and to prevent harm caused by plastics. The implementation of this programme has started at the end of 2018 and will hopefully continue to work more rapidly – as a result of this initiative – together with the Ministry of the Environment and the various stakeholders.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u99	Mr President! This citizens' initiative and its thorough and careful consideration in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has been a very important step forward. When I am not a member of the committee, but I am another Member of Parliament, I would like to thank the Committee on the Environment and also these active people who have brought this matter here to us in Parliament, because if you think about the state of the world, you think about the great challenges facing humanity and the planet, then this microplastic and other plastic waste and its reduction and the problems with plastic and their plastic problems are the big issues. On the other hand, they are absolutely shuddering and shocking, the huge plastic rafts, the size of whole continents and countries, sailing somewhere in the Pacific Ocean. Or, indeed, we are beginning to have Finnish lakes, our home regions and lakes in the cottage areas, where we already have this microplastic when samples are taken — we really need to get to grips with it. The line taken by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, by Mr Hannu Hoskonen, a well-informed chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, has a good line. I believe and I am sure that this will put this problem of cosmetics and plastic in check. But I would like to draw attention, President, to the fact that microplastic is also coming from other products, and one big problem is the microplastic of clothing. Yes, we must be able to grasp this so-called quick fashion phenomenon, that is, we buy clothes that can only last a few washing sessions and that it is a hobby to buy clothes all the time and throw them in the trash. At this point, I cannot fail to point out this interesting aspect that fur farming and fur production in Finland are an example of being a clothing production based on the circular economy, renewable natural resources. If we go to situations where the fur coat is banned, it means that those fur collars are then made of microplastics and plastic hair, these artificial furs. [MaiWinter Screaming]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u100	Mr President! The reason for this initiative is indeed quite legitimate concern that microplastics are being introduced into water bodies, and this is a serious global environmental problem. Microplastic particles washed into these waters cause damage to organisms and the entire marine ecosystem. However, the amount of microplastics in the environment is most affected by particles produced by wear or over time of the largest plastic products. For example, in road traffic car tire wears, outdoors with many artificial grass fields as well as, as Kurvine pointed out to clothing, textile washing is a major source of microplastics. In the Finnish sea area, less than ten microplastic particles per cubic metre of water are typically found. But there are ways to reduce the use of plastics and increase the use of substitute bioproducts. For example, a life cycle model for products will be used to explore ways to solve the plastic challenge. The Centre also wants to improve consumer awareness of plastic challenges and, if necessary, by means of legislation, to promote the reduction or even withdrawal of the most environmentally harmful plastic products from the market. President! Finland has state-of-the-art expertise in waste water treatment. Also at this point, we need to develop ways of removing microplastics from the nutrient cycle, among other things. However, the main focus must be on preventing the generation of harmful chemicals and microplastics. Harmful chemicals and microplastics are produced through textiles, cosmetics, packaging material and road transport in particular. President! The city centre also aims to shift from a fossil economy to a bioeconomy by replacing plastic products with bioproduct-based or biodegradable products. We also want to support solutions to reduce microplastic emissions from car tyres and road markings and to avoid their introduction into the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u101	Mr President! I too must thank the signatories and authors of the citizens' initiative and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, its members and the fact that the committee has consulted widely on this citizens' initiative. Of course, it always seems funny when the proposal for a decision is that ‘reject the proposal contained in the citizens’ initiative’ — it can be heard,not the same. On the contrary, the committee's explanatory statement states that it is in favour of this initiative and that this spirit of initiative will best be realised by means of this international and EU-wide restriction. And it would be very gratifying if this restriction were to come into force as early as 2021, that is, a year from now. That would mean, in practice, that it would certainly come into force faster than in the national process, and in that sense, too, it is a great thing that this is progressing at that EU level and, therefore, this regulation will also apply to other Member States and to the wider extent. Hopefully, international regulation will also be introduced to this ban on microplastics in cosmetics products and also to the wider extent. Very good speeches have been made here on the introduction of bio-based materials. A great deal of plastic can already be replaced, and these wood-based and other biodegradable materials are already more and more in use. Finland could also be one of the indicators here too, and when investment is made in product development and innovation, it is certainly worth paying even greater attention to this. Of course, it is a tragedy that a great deal of plastic is still being used in various parts of the world, this planet, but also that no wastewater treatment or circular economy has been introduced, that is to say that that plastic will continue to accumulate in the oceans and then microplastics will accumulate in planktons and other organisms and the food chain and so on. Hopefully, this clean domestic drinking water, which we can be proud of, will not be contaminated until we get it to replace products and, for example, these microplastic bans. As far as clothing is concerned, I agree: this kind of disposable economy is worrying that after a few washrooms you get to throw your clothes away because it does not last. This, of course, also requires such high-quality fabrics. One can examine just these materials, considering what the garment contains. And then I would hope that such old - fashioned or not old - fashioned crafts occupations like a shoemaker and tailor would continue to be put to use. Unfortunately, many municipalities, for example, are running out of shoe shops, but if this is the way to find out that good shoes are not worth throwing away, that some zipper or heel goes, and take those shoes to the shoemaker and can be used for 10 or 20 years for the same boots.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u102	Mr President! Indeed, I would like to thank the authors, the signatories and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for their good work. Research is important, and it is important that technology is developed in relation to our water purification. Perhaps over one of the others I would raise in my speech: the hooligans and the most common garbage in the world, and that is a cigarette butt. It's plastic, and it never leaves the wild. The most common debris on the beaches is cigarette butts. The majority of smokers put the garbage in the garbage bin, but three out of four put it in the ground, and with the lances, with the rainwaters, the cigarette butts end up in our waters, break down into microplastics. It is not only microplastic, it is lead, arsenic, so tobacco kills not only when it is burned but when it is crushed, and it accumulates in the organism and thus in our food chain. It is estimated that about 4 billion butts will end up in water bodies in Finland. It's about 600,000 kilos of hazardous waste. I hope that, after examining this initiative, we will not just wait for what is happening in the EU, but will see what can be done in Finnish legislation. The reform of the tobacco legislation is one thing. We could ban smoking on beaches, in playgrounds, and we could also consider fines. When you go to Paris, if you pump a cigarette, it's 70 euros a fine if the police see it. I am not saying that fines will save the world, but I hope that tobacco legislation will also help to get the blacks out of our waters. Mr President! To eradicate littering, a sustainable solution is, of course, the circular economy, towards which we must move even more closely, and in that way I will, for my part, speed up the government, namely reducing consumption, developing environmentally friendly products, re-use and efficient recycling of products, eliminating disposable plastics from consumption, using waste as energy if otherwise they cannot be used efficiently and environmentally-friendlyly — all of which are desirable. In the Sipilä government, this was one of our top priorities, and I certainly hope that the Marin government worked hard on this. I very much hope that this speech on the reform of tobacco law will now go to the ears of the government, because at least on the list of legislation coming to Parliament, I have not seen this reform of the tobacco law. It is important for health, but also for the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u103	Mr President! This citizens' initiative is indeed important and timely, because the problem it raises needs to be addressed with effective and sustainable solutions so that microplastics are no longer accessible to water. It was very good in the public consultation of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that the initiativers were also present and that they expressed very good views on this issue. Experts also openly reported on the current situation. I personally see that, as the Committee also points out, there is an increasing awareness of the risks of environmental and health damage caused by the use of microplastics, and this citizens' initiative has also led to an increase in awareness. This issue has been discussed and action has been taken to prevent these disadvantages, both through legislation and, above all, through voluntary measures. Finnish manufacturers of products have been at the forefront of these developments in Europe. That's a good thing. But many times, when it comes to the problem, it can also be an opportunity and a new beginning. Personally, I believe that when the plastic problem, the microplastics, has now started to be discussed and raised more and more of those problems, it has also led industry to develop and find new solutions to the plastic problem. It also provides new business opportunities for the business community, and I believe that Finnish companies can be at the forefront of development here too. That's a good thing. I personally believe that the objective must be to move from a fossil economy to a bio-economy, also by replacing plastic products with bio-based and biodegradable products in the future. Similarly, solutions must be sought to reduce microplastic emissions and their introduction into nature from other sources of microplastics, such as tyres and road markings. It is also noteworthy that Finnish forests and innovations can become an important substitute for plastics and, for example, the raw materials of the clothing industry, as has already been the case in recent years. It can be a big opportunity for Finland in the future, and I hope that water purification systems will continue to be developed. Finland is also a pioneer in these matters, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u104	Mr President! Thank you to those who have taken the initiative, thank you to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for your extensive work, and thank you for your excellent contributions. This certainly deals specifically with the issue of microplastics in cosmetics, which is, in a way, a clear and easy problem to solve, because microplastics are not really needed for any use in it. When it comes to this aspect of the bioeconomy, bioplastics, I personally agree that there is a great deal of potential here in the bioeconomy and that we have reason to move more from fossil raw materials to those that come from outside the earth. But it is really important to be aware of what is being said and what is bioplastic, what is biodegradable plastic. In principle, plastic made from biomass may not differ chemically in any way from ordinary fossil plastic. It means that the problems with the microplastic are exactly the same. In other words, in a way, these solutions may not only be found by changing the raw material, but, on the other hand, there is also a need to think, as many people here have pointed out, about the reasons for this, what kind of waste rounds and others can be used to ensure that it does not come and run at all. One good lift here has been a quick fashion that really has a terrible ecological footprint and which would be very easy to take by law and ensure that materials are recyclable, repairing is advantageous — such things. In my opinion, we do have a lot — literally a lot — that should be promoted in the future. It is very good that this initiative raises this perhaps wider debate. Indeed, I wanted to emphasise that we should bear in mind that the fact that plastic is a bio-substance does not necessarily correct anything about this problem if we do not solve the wider problem around it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u105	Mr President! In this context, I would like once again to thank the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for their excellent work and their hard work. The citizens' initiative gave us the opportunity to do this work, and for that I would like to thank the committee once again. That work was very interesting and instructive. This also shows that the possibility is true that, although we have soiled this earth ourselves, we will also be able to clean it up in the future when we learn to understand these processes, what happens in nature, what opportunities we have to clean up our environment. It was during this debate that I read on the Internet that Sami Taipale, a researcher at the University of Jyväskylä, concluded in his study two years ago that the humus - rich waters of Finnish lakes are capable of breaking down microplastics from the water and making it microplastics into microbes themselves and thus breaking down these microplastic beads. These results were very promising, especially in humus - rich waters. He had collected water samples from watercourses near Evo and put microplastics in it and then examined what happened to those microplastics after two months of processing. And surprise, surprise, in humus - rich waters, microplastics were substantially reduced, and the same phenomenon, of course, also occurred in cleaner waters. Now I think of such a light lightening, that when it is always said that forestmen have ruined water bodies and led humus-rich waters into lakes, there could be a good bridge like this, that both people on the forest side and people who care for the environment would find each other better, because these humus-rich waters enable, among other things, microplastics to disappear from Finnish waters. Nature cleans itself, and that's what we have to take for ourselves a good, winky lesson. However, it means that we must continue to do better work as people, as decision-makers, as parliamentarians and as representatives of industry — who works in them. Finally, it is worth noting, Mr President, that Finnish and international companies have taken this matter seriously themselves. It is clear that nothing in the world will improve unless the multinationals take this job seriously and invest big money in research, among other things. It should be remembered that Bezos, the head of the Amazon e-commerce company, recently invested EUR 9 billion — I think a fund of EUR 9 billion or USD 10 billion — was set up — then distributed appropriately to various research and related environmental improvement activities. Ten billion dollars, not a small sum. It is just a sign that international players have woken up to this, that we need to keep this environment much cleaner and do our work better next year than this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u106	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate on my own behalf as well. Mr Harjanne made a good point on this issue of raw materials. I myself would like to say that I strongly disagree that fur farming in some way would be the answer to this problem of microplastics. When it comes to the fact that 90 percent of the furbacks end up being decorative, it is clear that when these decorations are useless, these decorations do not replace or remove the problems caused by the express fashion. This is a rather weak argument used by this industry, when these ethical reasons are increasingly against fur farming and fur farming is quite rightly now facing quite strong opposition. Congressman Laukkanen commented that it was an interesting illustration of me that there was more microplastic than stars in our galaxy, and he asked about it. That source is indeed UNEP, or the United Nations Environment Programme, and, if it is accurate, they note that there are 500 times as many microplastic particles in the world’s seas as there are stars in our galaxy. This is, therefore, linked to the fact that the UN has also woken up and is working on this problem and the UN has an international campaign to stop microplastics ending up in the seas of the world. I would like to add that this matter of microplastics is indeed not just a problem with the seas and the living of the seas; it is also a problem with the human body. The challenge here is that this may have an impact on human health, but then, on the other hand, we do not have enough research into the effects of microplastics and microplastics in general. That is why I think it is good that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also drew attention to this. In other words, we should have more research and monitoring information on the sources and transport of microplastics as well as on the effects of microplastics on humans and other animals and the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u107	Mr President! I would also like to thank you again for this debate, which has been very high-quality and has brought very different perspectives. It shows the citizens' initiative makers that the work they have done has been meaningful and is appreciated here. It has also been good to note that we really do have things that are widely agreed in this House and whose importance and importance can be emphasised and taken forward together. These speeches also show that this is an unfortunate and deplorable problem. If only microplastics were to be added to the products, the problem would eventually be easily solved. The real problem is global, but we have all the resources to do our part here in Finland. It is good that the reform of the Waste Act has emerged in the debate. This will allow us to move forward in the recycling of plastic in Finland and in the recycling of waste in general. With regard to our ambitious circular economy objectives, we still have a great deal to do. In this context, the prevention of plastic waste and waste in general has also been emphasised. We really need to get away from the disposable consumption culture, which Mrs Atte Harjanne spoke about. It is also very important because the raw material of plastic is from fossil origin. It is really important that companies voluntarily take their own measures to replace plastic products and develop plastic-free solutions, but in addition to that, we really do need strict regulation that controls consumption, which controls and speeds up its operation. The goodwill of companies alone is not fast enough to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u108	Mr President! This is a good example of the fact that the citizens' initiative, although not adopted directly by the committee, will, however, influence and move forward and will be part of our democracy and healthy civic engagement, a good form of such an initiative. We have heard a lot of good speeches here, a presentation of the unpleasant effects of plastic on a global scale. It is important that we have found and seen many solutions that recycling and new materials bring. We are the land of thousands of forests, and wood-based and other natural materials also bring new opportunities and vitality to our country. I am proud that during the previous term of the Government, under the leadership of Minister Tiilikainen and Mr Kosonen, this plastic road map was prepared for Finland, which is now being carried out in the Government Programme. Surely this citizens' initiative and this debate and the ideas it brings will also add to the preparatory work. The plastic road map contains very good concrete proposals for further development. If I think about our children and our young people, about schools, this will provide a good opportunity to move from talk to action, because it is concrete doing that is pleasant for children and young people and it will bring them up to sustainable thinking. Reduce littering and avoid unnecessary consumption, investigate the introduction of a plastic tax, significantly improve the recovery of plastic waste, improve the identification of plastic in buildings and the sorting of plastic waste, such as on construction sites, improve the recycling and replacement of agricultural and horticultural plastics, mobilise the diverse recycling solutions of recovered plastic, invest heavily in substitute solutions, raise the plastic challenge to the public, export expertise and solutions to the world and increase research in order to make sustainable decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u109	Mr President! First of all, I too should like to thank the authors of an important citizens' initiative. This is indeed a good example of civic engagement. Although the initiative does not go through in this way, it is a good thing that the committee has here said that the preparation of EU legislation to address the adverse effects of microplastics is at this stage a sufficient legislative measure and it is hoped that these solutions will soon be achieved in the EU. As has been said, this is a terrible global problem. However, it is a pleasure to be Finnish here, because in practice all plastics can be replaced by bio-sector products, and in these products Finland is definitely one of the world's top companies. We have many examples of successful companies that contribute to improving this world by their own actions. I can't wait to say it when you're represented. The stone brought up fur farming: I personally support fur farming warmly and I can see that fur is always a better option than this plastic-based product. I understand that there may also be a legitimate disagreement about fur farming, but I would like to say that if you really want to use an ethical and ecological product and then replace these plastic-based products, you can always choose Finnish wild fur. We also have a lot of very harmful alien species: the raccoon dog, now the red fox in the north, the gold jackal is coming into the polar distribution area. These species must be hunted, and it is always an advantage that the results of hunting are then used as clothing. So I suggest that if Mr Kivela is interested in the ecological way of life, welcome to the hunting course and then also to those skins. They provide a spectacular garment and contribute to the replacement of plastic - based products.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u110	Mr President! I too thank you for this citizens' initiative. It tells us that people are worried and in distress about our future: the future of children, human health, the future of nature, the future of the seas. Last September, the World of Technology announced that plastic is a dark matter of the sea. The Dutch Ocean Cleanup organization had looked into the matter and wondered where 99% of the sea’s plastics would end up. We only have 1%. Well, the microplastic ends up where it's in the dark and invisible. It goes to birds, fish, seabed organisms, and us humans. Artificial fibre clothing and cosmetics are among those from which microplastics are excreted. We talk enormously about the need to prevent cancer and we have clear issues that we always raise when we talk about what causes cancer: tobacco, alcohol, red meat and additives. But what is the proportion of microplastics in cancer diseases, for example? It is very important that this issue is maintained, studied and discussed. It was just whether or not yesterday it was reported that, among other things, testicular cancer in young men has become alarmingly widespread, and Finnish researchers are working very hard to find the causes and to find out why. In other words, we have a lot of things that need to be clarified, and in the fight against cancer, among other things, this stone must also be translated and the proportion of microplastics must be clarified. That is why it is extremely important that things are talked about and paid attention to, including what we do not see with our eyes, and that microplastics and plastic on the seabeds are one of those things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u111	Mr President! I thought I would be fine, but Mr Kärnä can always be tempted to speak a little longer. Let us start with the fact that perhaps Finland is still a land of thousands of lakes, not forests. In other words, if we have 22 million hectares of forest land, we will use it, but we must ensure that this land of thousands of lakes is free of microplastics. As Mr Hoskone, chairman of the committee, has said, these clean waters are no longer free from micro-plastics. I myself have worked very hard in that municipality to get artificial grass there, and now I need to look at what material it is, when the area where this artificial grass will hopefully be carried out is right on the shore of Kokemäenjoki. This means that it is also very important in municipal decision-making, even when we choose work clothes. We ourselves have instruments if we want to intervene in this very good citizens' initiative, including everyone in our own municipal decision-making. We can also see what kind of carpet we have here in Parliament, what kind of material they are. No one has yet brought up the fact that how does it wash them and where does the microplastics come from? Just as much as we drink water from plastic mugs here at committee meetings — when we talk about plastics — we, as a committee, have taken the initiative for the Staff Committee to move away from plastic mugs here so that Parliament could be plastic-free. I would therefore like to encourage all of us a little to be able to set an example in our everyday lives, in our own working environment, of what has been very much followed up in the previous debate, of the courage to see ahead and, if the state itself acts exemplaryly, it means that it will be easier for citizens to adopt the measures that must be taken. Then we must also have the courage to be exemplary and not be content with policies or easy solutions in the EU, for example. Now, obviously, we are going to have to punish our own drinking industry, could we say, so that, when we have recyclable plastic materials, the cork must be firmly attached to that bottle because there is no rest of Europe. We must be able to demand that there is an equal return system in the EU, that the Spanish coasts are not full of those drinking bottles and ditches full of plastic waste, which is mostly still soft drinks. Yes, we must dare to shout and shake hands on the table, either in the fist or in the palm of the hand — let us perhaps not take one to the table in the conference room, it was done by the men of the past winter, but at that time did very well. So let us be courageous, proactive, not agree to some such regulations being brought to us. We can then regulate ourselves here so that the bottle of returned drink has to have the cap in place in order to receive the pledge. It will certainly guide our practices, that we do not have a cork that escapes into the water and is not thrown out. But we have the opportunity to set an example for the whole of Europe on this whole plastic issue. I want Mr Kivelä and Mr Kärnä to have this fur debate with each other, not to go into it, but we have seals and seal products, for example. I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u114	Mr President! Apologies, this is a bit of a line up, but when fur farming was brought up here and it was called a quick fashion substitute and an ecological alternative, I think it is important to make it clear and perhaps it is good to remind you that even in the '90s, fur farmers were banned from advertising their products ecologically, because that cannot be said to be the case. As far as this use of wild animal fur is concerned, it is a little hard to imagine that the world’s people would clothe themselves in this situation with wild animal fur. I do not see that Mr Kärnä here himself is dressed as a wild animal fur, so I am sure there are some restrictions here. Mrs Myllykoski raised this point, how we could make an example and Parliament should be exemplary in this. It just occurred to me that when we had open doors, two young people came to talk to me after a round about how it could be possible to serve people a drink from plastic mugs. So I think it's all right that we have to be pioneers. But to this extent, I wanted to say the extent to which this EU legislation was concerned by the authors of the citizens' initiative and which was raised here in the public consultation, these transitional periods were these, and that is something I would like to emphasise myself. In other words, we were assured that EU legislation is bound to come, because there is a great political will to do so, and this is progressing on schedule, so that there is no need to worry about it, but then there can still be changes to these transitional periods. I personally would like to see a message coming from here to the people who can influence them, that these transition periods are not too long and that they are not too long. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u115	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Myllykoski for her excellent speech. You raised some very important issues, such as the EU's common system of pledges and also the responsibility and responsibility for public procurement and our own procurement. These are important questions when we want to combat microplastics together. I quite agree with the fact that these plastic pots have been raised here in several speeches, of which water is still being served in committees and elsewhere, that it would be a small practical act, that we should give them up together and move on to more sustainable choices. Mrs Myllykoski has also made an excellent point on seals, and I fully agree with this. It is madness that these seal products cannot be exploited and cannot be traded, and we should rather be more efficient in fishing. Congressman Kivelä here. I have certainly not proposed a solution that would allow all the people of the world to go back to wearing fur, but for such a small northern nation it is a partial solution that can be used in particular for these wild animals. And why not, in the parliament of such a people, here in Parliament, a few hides or furs on the floor in place of carpets, when in those carpets there are — quite well, they are quite elegant products.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u116	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski made one last speech. Again, to respect this initiative, of course, it is very important that this microplastic has discussed us so much this evening, and this is also the case. In other words, when it comes to this deposit system, which has been in Finland for a very long time with regard to the recycling of bottles, I have also wondered whether packing products other than only bottles could not be placed in this kind of deposit system. So now these drinking bottles are being recycled quite efficiently, but we have a lot of other plastic boxes and products and packaging materials that I think could very well be in this kind of deposit system. This, if someone were such an innovation that could also be taken to the world, because when I have traveled and traveled the world a little myself, I have noticed that in many large countries, waste management and waste recycling is in their infancy or there is no such thing as being full of filth, rubbish, and it makes me really sad. As Mr Juvonen said, there they will then be on the seas and on the seabed and on organisms and on fish and finally on us people and everywhere, we will drown in this plastic waste. In other words, as an idea for the whole of this Chamber and for other committees, it would certainly be possible to create sustainable products and solutions here in the country, but this would, above all, also serve as an export product, as an idea for marketing elsewhere. It cannot be that we have good practice, then, that we should give it up here in Finland because indeed — as a representative Myllykoski set an example here — when there is no such deposit system in Spain, then we or our beverage industry would suffer for it. Hopefully such good practices can also be exported to the world, so that there too can be started in this waste sorting and circular economy and reuse. We still have a lot to offer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u117	Mr President! I'll keep this very short because it looks like the microplastic is turning to the side of the glass. Our return system for plastics can be further developed, for it is somehow incomprehensible that if I buy a coffee liqueur from Alko, which is in a glass bottle, and then I buy Rajamäki vinegar from the store, which is in a similar bottle, they will not enter the recycling system so that we still have much to do in this nest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u118	Mr President! On the initiative itself, I would like to thank the authors. It was not progressing at the moment, but there was a good reason for it because similar legislation is coming from the EU. When, in this debate, Mr Kärnä and also Mrs Myllykoski spoke about these seals or small-scale beasts as a matter of fact, in the form of fishing, I would like to say that I hope that the government will also take into account this small-scale predatory fishing and the fight against invasive alien species, which we have also spoken about as a committee. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u119	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u120	Mr President! It is a question of amending Article 7e of the Law on the Municipality of Residence Act. In this bill I propose to amend the Municipality of residence Act so that the Digi and Population Information Office, known as the Local Register Office until the end of last year, should provide the information contained in the person’s notification of move to the management and potential host of the housing company. As all of us change our address, we must report the migration to the Digi and Population Information Office. The notification of move shall indicate the name of the moving person, his/her identity number, the date of move, the information on the dwelling to which he/she is moving, the other information necessary for the purpose of making the indication of the municipality of residence and the place where he/she resides and the information on the management basis of the dwelling. In practice, this means that housing companies would receive information about the movers or migrants. This would help to verify the identity of the residents and to easily mark the correct information on the occupants of the houses and the population of the staircases. Currently, the Digi and Population Information Office is not obliged to provide customer information to the manager or the management of the housing company. The obligation of the Digi and Population Information Office to provide the information contained in the removal notification to the management and manager of the housing company would result in the company automatically receiving up-to-date information about the person moving or moving to the company. The purpose is to verify the identity of the people living in the company. The aim of the amendment is to influence the sense of security of the residents. In addition, the change would have a practical positive effect when it would be possible to record the correct information about the residents on the doors of the dwellings and on the population board of the stairs without a separate notification by the resident to the company. Mr President! In my opinion, the maintenance of personal registers and the proper processing of data do not pose significant practical challenges or impossible additional costs. Instead, the proposed reform would have a significant impact on the sense of security of the inhabitants, since it would be better to know who is staying in the decline. A change in the law would also make it more difficult to hide criminals or even those illegally in the country. This problem is highlighted in large cities, in blocks of flats where residents do not know each other so well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u121	Mr President! Representative Elomaa is a diligent and diligent representative of the parliament, and again she is on a good cause. This initiative is therefore about the fact that the Local Register Office, or, at present, the Digi and Population Information Office, should inform the management of the housing company and the potential host of the names of the person or persons moving to the housing company after responding to the migration notification. This would certainly ensure identity. This would certainly also increase the security of housing companies, perhaps the comfort of living. All of this, if I understood correctly, would therefore be done without the citizen’s own announcement. At this point I must say that it is very important, that is, awareness and knowledge of who actually lives in the apartment. Of course, it is extremely important to be aware of this, because just as Mrs Elomaa described, there are abuses in these matters. So there is nothing wrong with the bill itself, but I myself wonder — I am now using the word Local Register Office, something that is better in the mouth — the resources of the Local Register Offices. So I understand that there are 89,000 housing companies, and in 18 for example, 288,000 people moved between municipalities and around 595,000 people within municipalities. I wonder what possibility, that is, such a realistic resource opportunity, these Local Register Offices have for this activity. I myself wondered that this would have to be a rather large and massive digital platform that would allow data to be transferred, but of course there is no such platform in sight at the moment. In other words, mainly this resource, that is, realism, here takes an eye and an ear: is this possible in practice?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u122	Mr President! Ritva Elomaa, a representative of the Finns Party, has taken a very good and important initiative, suggesting that the reporting obligation of the mover would result in the Local Register Office being required to provide the information contained in the removal notification without delay after receiving the notification of the move to the management and potential manager of the company referred to in Chapter 7 of the Housing Companies Act. The idea of this bill is certainly to increase the security of residents and their senses and to let people in their own homes know who might be living in the same and common stairwell—and live in the same house. In January, there was news of shady business in Helsinki and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. There are a number of rental dwellings that have been used, for example, as intermediate storage facilities for drugs or have been accommodated without legal residence for people in the country and who have received a conversion decision. This has become a business, so the price of accommodation at night has been up to 200 euros. In other words, such a shady market can also be behind the apartments there, and this business makes up to EUR 200,000 since those who need that apartment. This is a very important legislative initiative which I hope will move forward and then receive the attention it deserves in committee. It is important to know who lives there in the common house and what the safety of its inhabitants is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u123	Mr President! I consider this bill to be very good and worthy of support. In this speech by Mr Kivisaari, I say that this obligation to report a move has been lifted in 94 until the time it was available for these house books to be drawn up. Now all we have to do is give us the number that lives in the apartment. In this context, I would like to highlight the big story that Yle made yesterday about these abuses, to which Mr Juvonen referred. It is reported that up to hundreds of rental dwellings would currently be in the capital region, where housing shortages are being shouted out. And now we've got fake identities, warrants have been used to retrieve keys. This representative of Elomaa's bill would tackle this type of activity in a certain way. As has been said, drugs have been used in these, there are black tenants, there are illegal residents. You could somehow imagine that one way or another this type of activity would have to stop, because if you think that we have thousands of people on the housing line in Helsinki alone, it seems quite unfair that these few rental apartments can be used in this way. In that sense, it would be good for the manager to have an announcement, so that he too would have information about who should live there, and that would make it easier to deal with these abuses. I cannot comment on how this is possible, but today there is much talk of digitalisation, and one might imagine that this type of issues could certainly be resolved through digitalisation, so that agencies and housing companies could communicate with each other electronically. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u124	Mr President! I myself am the chairman of the Board of Directors in that two flat houses company in Tampere. I consider Mr Elomaa's initiative to be very good, not only in terms of security, but also in terms of equality. In the case of older housing companies without water meters, the water charge is based on the number of residents, and this is a continuing problem for multi-detached housing companies, where there may be considerably more residents in the share than indicated as the basis for the water charge. This will be a major inconvenience to other residents if there can be five people living in an apartment and only one water fee is paid and yet the housing company will have to pay this water fee for the cubes. This would be a good initiative if it were to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u125	Mr President! I would like to thank the representatives of Kivisaari, Juvonen, Rantanen and Niemi for their contributions and positive contributions to this initiative. The representative Kivisaari raised the potential resources of the Local Register Office to deal with this matter. Of course we have to think about this too, but I do not think this is a big problem in the digital age, given that the other side has a price to pay for security. And a representative. Niemi brought up this equality between apartments, between residents. But in any case, I hope that the bill will move forward, and I thank you for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u126	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session of 14 February 1920. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u127	Mr President! Representative Rantanen's bill is important and very welcome. Its purpose is to safeguard the work of professionals. I find it extremely worrying that professionals specialised in safeguarding the lives and health of other people have to fear violence in their own work. Over the past ten years, the operating environment of emergency care personnel has changed significantly from before; however, the basic task is not, the assistance has remained unchanged. The increased use of drugs today, as well as the increased mental health problems, is reflected in the tasks of emergency care. Aiders are increasingly subjected to various forms of intimidation and violence. Medical personnel are physically assaulted, thrown objects, threatened with sharps and firearms. The situation is unpredictable. As they themselves say, you never know when you're gonna get out of a fist. Mr President! Based on a survey conducted in 2018, more than 90 per cent of the paramedics who responded reported having experienced threats or violence at work — 90 per cent. If we were to consider what that would mean in this Chamber, only 20 of us would not have experienced threats or violence. Think about it. Only 20 in this room. And as if this was not enough, one in four paramedics has been assaulted — one in four. There has been an increase in the number of threat and violence situations from 15 to 25 per cent since 2014. In 2019 the number of reports of offences reported by emergency services personnel doubled compared to the previous year, although these reports are made in very few cases. These figures are truly worrying, and these increased threats are not only suffered by those in emergency care but also, in the worst case, by helping if treatment is delayed as a result of the threat. We cannot accept violence against emergency staff. Mr President! As legislators, we must also tackle the deterioration in safety at work by means of legislation. The abuse of a paramedic is currently being punished as an assault offence. So we have the same legal clause and scale as we do in hot dogs. It is not enough to talk about a change in the operating environment, but to deal with the phenomena of time by means of concrete measures. Our role as legislators is to ensure that we send out a clear message that our society does not accept violence against helpers and that it is taken seriously. It would be precisely this message to take forward the legislative proposal in question. Mr President! Recently, a number of people — paramedics, police officers, prosecutors, judges, who are responsible for ensuring the safety of each of us — have contacted us in order to safeguard their working conditions. These expert experts know what they're talking about. By amending the penal code, we can show these valuable workers that we respect their work. We must listen to the voice of those who care for the safety of our society. It is a question of professional safety and, ultimately, of safety for all of us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u128	Mr President! There is indeed an excellent bill by Mr Rantanen, who has been suspended on Friday, which was also widely supported in the Chamber last week. Unfortunately, however, this broad support had not been as well reflected in the number of signatories. It would, of course, help to move the initiative forward so that it could be signed much more diligently. There was also a great deal of support from operators, organisations and associations in this area for this initiative, so that it is clearly very important. As has been said here in many speeches, the environment for paramedics has changed a great deal. Not only are there more people with multiple problems, drug users and so on, but so are many other factors, such as the fact that there are areas where there are more problems with segregation and so on. Unfortunately, we have a particularly good picture of this when we look at the neighbour of the West, Sweden, where a similar law has come into force this year. It was put forward last year, and it was specifically intended not only to put the police and paramedics and other rescue workers on the same line, but also to address this so-called blue light sabotage, which is a fairly common phenomenon in our western neighbour. The percentages that have also been mentioned in the previous speech are very high, and this should definitely move such a society as Finland deeply. In Sweden, these penalties, in particular for this serious form, are higher than in this initiative, i.e. life imprisonment. I understand, however, that in the less normal form it is precisely what this initiative is proposing. In any case, this initiative is very important and I hope it will be brought forward, given that there is so much parliamentary support. But it is also good to note that this in itself does not solve matters. Not only do we need more resources for emergency care, but we also need to address the whole of this emergency and security environment in other ways. This in itself does not affect, for example, gang violence or, in fact, this blue light sabotage, only these consequences, which the perpetrators can face. But hopefully Mr Rantanen's initiative will succeed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u129	Mr President! The environment of emergency care and police has changed dramatically. I have been a police officer for 20 years, and in that time, for example, investigations have shown that the violent situations faced by the police have doubled. The situation has not only increased but has become more diverse and brutal. There used to be kicking, punching. Now the police are being attacked with astalo, blade and firearms. To shoot is not in any way rare today. Similarly, the violence and the threat of emergency care have increased significantly in different forms. The models and tactics of emergency care have been developed with the police over the past few years and have been able to significantly increase the safety of emergency care at work and have been able to prevent significant injury, damage, even loss of life in violent situations. Mr President! Practices have developed, but legislation has not. It lags hard in pursuit of the present situation. We must take care of the people who help, the people who run in the direction from which others run, the people who have to go to the front line where, at worst, human lives are fought under very demanding conditions. It cannot be that the helpers do not have adequate legal protection. When this crying flaw is corrected, it is also a strong signal to society as a whole: we do not accept violence, we condemn it, and it cannot be included as a normal part of anyone's work or job description. Mr President! I have signed this important bill and I strongly support it and I believe that this change should have been made a long time ago. I have received a lot of contacts from people in the industry, and they demand that this problem be rectified at last. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u130	Mr President! This bill by Mrs Mari Rantanen proposes tightening up the criminal code on the violent opposition of a person in a first-aid position. Paramedics help people, people in need. The threat of violence and also the actual incidents, the dangers to paramedics, are constantly increasing. So it is inconceivable that the penalty for assaulting a paramedic who is helping is usually fined. Representatives Tolvanen and Ronkainen have previously tried to correct this problem. Now, the presentation of Mr Rantanen's in-depth initiative last Friday in this Chamber, his solid work experience in the field and the support of many rescue parties, combined with the support of a very large number of parliamentarians, will hopefully serve as a catalyst for the implementation of this initiative. I am very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u131	Mr President! Thank you very much to Mr Rantanen for this important bill. This is a serious matter because those who work importantly, such as those working in the social services and rescue sector, have been subjected to violence or at least to the threat of violence. In emergency care, safety risks and threats have increased so that many workers have experienced some form of violence at work. The patient’s violent behavior is, of course, motivated by numerous factors such as mental health problems, stressful conditions, alcohol, drugs, any kind of substance abuse. Violence may also be unintentional at times, for example, because of somatic sickness. Most commonly, a paramedic encounters a violent or threatening situation in private dwellings, ambulances or even outdoors. The most common forms of violence are oral or mental violence and physical violence. President! It is the surprise of situations that makes it difficult to act in threatened situations. However, good preparation and anticipation can prevent the emergence of threatening situations and reduce the harm caused by their surprise and surprise. President! A few remarks, just like thinking out loud. There is apparently little practice of this kind in criminal law to avoid the adoption of separate laws. So this is where it would be done on the basis of a professional title. As far as this bill is concerned, I understand that criminal law itself gives the possibility, of course, to prosecute and punish in the event of violence or the threat of violence against emergency care workers, but there are indisputable shortcomings in the severity of the penalties. So no one should or should be confused that violence against paramedics, for example, is criminal. This bill is well founded in that it draws attention to the real and serious problem. Paramedics, as we all know here, are doing extremely important and valuable work, especially in difficult circumstances. If, in one way or another, this bill, above all, preempts violent situations, I think it is absolutely worthy of progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u132	Mr President! I would also like, for my part, to thank Mr Ranta for this very important bill. This is something that has been discussed for a very long time in my own experience. As early as the beginning of the millennium, for example, Tehy’s Federal Assembly initiative — I was about to sign this initiative. It would therefore be very desirable that this very important issue should at last lead to concrete legislative action. Indeed, as has already been mentioned here today, over 90 per cent of the paramedics who responded to the Finnish Association of Emergency Services survey in 2018 said that they had experienced threats and violent situations in their work, and one in four had been assaulted. This is something that is absolutely unacceptable. The starting point for this initiative is, in my view, that increasing violence against paramedical staff is totally unacceptable and that amending the criminal code now has the opportunity to contribute to safeguarding the work and safety of professionals. However, when dealing with this initiative, it is worth noting that the increasing threat of violence is, unfortunately, also affecting many other occupational groups, for example as part of the emergency care package and first responders' professional and contract staff of the rescue services, which are also taken into account in this initiative. Unfortunately, in addition to these professional groups, such as child welfare workers in the social sector and home care workers, as well as other customer service workers, they are regularly exposed to threats and violent situations or even victims of violence. Mr President! Experience of increased threats and violent situations is particularly regrettable, as the aim of all those in emergency care and other care is always to maintain and promote health, prevent disease and alleviate the suffering that can be helped. Increasing threat situations are a social problem which, in addition to those in care, can also be helped if the treatment given is delayed due to the threat situation. The penal scale of the Criminal Code is important not only in terms of general respect and respect for emergency care but also in terms of public security. Indeed, the problem is global and has already been addressed in some other countries. Mr Purra raised Sweden in his speech and, in addition to this, the United Kingdom could be mentioned, for example, where, at the end of 2018, a law was passed which tightens the penalties for violence against ambulance and rescue personnel. Mr President! It is also good to say that criminalising violence against paramedics in criminal law is very important, but it does not solve the whole problem yet. The criminalisation of the violent opposition of a person in emergency care would certainly increase the threshold for many to become violent towards paramedics, but it should be noted that, even after the threat of punishment, there are still likely to be people who, unfortunately, are not affected by this provision. Unfortunately, the increase in the use of drugs in particular has also increased the violent resistance of the police, even though they have this protection under criminal law. It should also be noted that the role and training of paramedics and other similar professional groups does not include, at least as a general rule, curbing a violent person, which still requires the expertise and support of a law enforcement professional.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u133	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! This bill by Mari Rantanen to amend Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code is very good and welcome here in Parliament. This bill introduces a new provision in Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code on the violent opposition of a person in a primary care position. Under this provision, anyone who uses or threatens to use violence against a person acting in a first-aid capacity must be sentenced to a minimum of 4 months and up to 4 years for the violent opposition of a person acting in a first-aid capacity. Mr President! We are talking about a very important issue, and it is a pity that the bill has a limited number of signatories, whether it was 44. I hope, therefore, that Mrs Rantanen will continue to work on this important issue if this bill does not go forward to the Ministry's opinion there. In other words, we have the way that if there are 100 signatures in the bill, then the committee will send an initiative to the Ministry, which will state what can be done about this initiative and about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u136	Mr President! First off the cap: is a very good bill. And when those names were missed here, my name will not be found among the signatories.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u139	Mr President! This bill by Mrs Mari Rantanen therefore proposes to include in the Criminal Code a provision on the violent objection of a person in a first-care position, and this provision provides that anyone who uses or threatens to use violence against a person in a first-care position must be sentenced to a minimum of 4 months and no more than 4 years for the violent opposition of a person in a first-care position. Similarly, this proposal proposes a provision for a less restrictive form of crime, which, in the light of mitigating circumstances, could be punishable by a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of six months. Mr President! The bill drawn up by Mrs Mari Rantanen and signed by a large number of other Members of Parliament, including myself, is quite timely, timely and worthy of support. The risks faced by persons in emergency care have increased rapidly in recent years, and according to statistics, the rate of growth has been up to 20 per cent for several years. This is a very serious problem both for helpers, for those who need help and for the whole of organised society, and it must be tackled swiftly and decisively. In our neighbouring country, Sweden, we have had an unfortunate example of what can happen if this is not done in time. Of course, Sweden has finally corrected its legislation, as we have heard today. Of course, in order to avoid the Swedish road, Finland must take other measures, but the implementation of this proposal would definitely be a step in the right direction, especially in view of its preventive impact. Mr President! Several MPs here in Parliament today and last Friday have considered this bill very important, and, as Mr Rantanen said last Friday when presenting the bill, Tehy, the Finnish Association for First Care, the Finnish Firearms Association, the Finnish Association of Contract Firearms and the First Nurses of the Year — all of these bodies — have appealed to the Parliament to add to the Criminal Code an act on violent opposition to a person in a first-care position. I therefore hope that the committee will take this bill seriously, with the importance it requires, across the party boundaries, as has already been done in this referral debate, and that we are actually prepared to supplement the existing legislation. Mr President! Parliament must send an unambiguously negative message against all violence, including violence faced by people in emergency care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u140	Mr President! We have discussed an important issue here. Thank you for the biller. An emergency care worker is doing a very important job. He's bringing help to where the emergency is greatest. Recently, the helpers have faced increasing violence. They operate under demanding conditions, and this violence is also encountered in other nursing work. This bill deals with the violent opposition of a person in a first-care position. Through Mr S.H.I.E.L.D., we heard about the increased cooperation between the paramedics and the police, the way things have developed. That's a good thing. All in all, it is a serious matter. Our President has also intervened to ensure that the authorities do not have to fear the threat of violence. When we look at these situations, there are very different factors in the background. We have been discussing mental health problems here in Parliament a great deal lately, and these measures must be taken to ensure that people with mental health problems receive timely and adequate help. There may be stressful conditions in the background, but especially intoxicants, alcohol and drugs. It is therefore worth considering how we can influence these underlying factors and also facilitate working conditions for workers in these circumstances. How can we reduce alcohol consumption in Finland? How can we reduce the use of drugs in Finland? When dealing with these factors behind violence, attention should be paid to educational work and guidance at school. We should give good models to children and young people in these matters too. Mr Kivisaari raised this need for separate laws. Certainly, during the preparatory phase, this will be considered how much more protection will be provided by a separate law for workers. In any case, it is important that we do not tolerate violence in any form and protect those who do this important work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u141	Mr President! First of all, the initiative taken by Mrs Mari Rantanen is a good one, and it is to be welcomed. Hopefully, he will be able to collect more names so that we can have at least the support of 100 people. In my years as a police officer, I've been on an alarm patrol a lot. One of the worst targets, of course, is a home alarm mission that very often includes several intoxicated persons, has become some kind of quarrel, fight, or similar. There is sometimes a person who has been stabbed very badly, for example, or something like that, and there must also be an emergency unit in haste. It is indeed a major flaw that, in the face of violence or other harm on the part of the police, it is the violent opposition of an official, but when the emergency care unit arrives, if they are subjected to such an attack, it is only talk of assault on a layman, so to speak. It's a big mistake. Of course, they would have to be brought to the same level: harm or violent opposition to an official. As a police officer, I would also like to point out that if, for example, a police officer encounters violence in his duties, the length of sick leave on full pay is considerably longer than in those cases where a private individual, in this case a sick person, is confronted with such violence — there is not at all the same person. As an occupational safety officer, the idea is also raised as to whether emergency care people should also be wearing a bulletproof vest under their work clothes, as the police are obliged to do today on these alerts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u142	Mr President! Mr Rantanen's bill is very important and it would be more than a welcome change. Although not all representatives have signed this, it would be more than desirable to bring it to the end this time in order to increase safety at work. In the field of emergency care, organisations have been calling for the legal protection of victims of violence to be improved for a long time. Finnish rescue professionals SPAL, Finnish Association of Contract Fireworks, Finnish Association of Emergency Services and Finland's largest trade union in social, health and education Mr Tehy felt that the criminal code should be amended so that the abuse of a person performing an emergency response and emergency care mission would be treated as a violent opposition to an official. Currently, the Finnish legal system has stated that the violent behaviour of paramedics, firefighters and contract firefighters who perform emergency care will be punished in accordance with the characteristics of the assault offence. These penalties are, as a general rule, fined. The penalty scale for the violent opposition of a public authority is four months to four years imprisonment. Mr President! I've been a fireman myself and a paramedic for 32 years. From my experience, I can tell you that the environment in this area has indeed become more violent. Violence and its threat are commonplace in emergency care. This has to change. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u143	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank you once again for this debate. This is a very important initiative for me, and with the mouth of the people I represent here in Parliament, I am trying to speak here. A few comments on these proposals first. I would therefore like to clarify to Mrs Myllykoski that, when paramedics do not exercise public authority, they are not civil servants, and therefore they are not comparable to civil servants, such as a social worker in child protection who exercises public authority, in a way that he is treated in the same way as a police officer with regard to criminal law. For example, it is the decision of the Supreme Court, or the Administrative Court, when a fireman, who is therefore an official in office, is on an emergency duty. If anyone here remembers the fires on the ground, then this was taken to the end, and it was tested that the fireman was not an official when he was in the ambulance, when he was treated at that point, in a way, through ordinary assault. This is one of the reasons why this is a major deficiency, which is why emergency care must be treated like this civil servant. I would like to comment to the extent — it may be that there are new parliamentarians here to hear — that this bill has already been taken over the last period. Jari Ronkainen did so, and then this initiative did not succeed, and now this was brought back for the second time, thinking that if this were to be achieved this time, because this has clearly been the wish of the emergency care sector, the rescue sector, that this should be taken to the finish line, which, of course, now also tells us that the unions have been strongly behind this and involved in this. Of course, it does not remove everything, it does not correct everything, it does not prevent everything, but I said this in my own speech last week that STM and S.M. could also carry out a national project in which safety issues in the field of rescue and emergency care would be viewed more widely through common statistics, through training and through the provision of equipment. I think that bringing this law forward would be a clear signal that we do not accept violence, especially against helpers, because it can also be thought that it is an attack on an organised society, not so much an individual's abuse. But it looks like I don't... There were indeed 44 signatures, and unfortunately there are no committees here to deal with these before it has been collected over 100. At this point, I would particularly like to appeal to the government parties that this should finally move forward. It suits me perfectly if we make this sort of blue-white legislation, as the Swedish model is, that does not hurt at all, but I would like the representatives of the government parties to contribute to this important issue. It may be a small part of the process of correcting social inadequacies, but it is all the more important for those who work there. I do not mind myself if we also have a broader view of the violence that the social services sector is facing or of the violence that the education sector is facing. There have been no such initiatives, and I am also in favour of them, but it would be important to start somewhere. In fact, such a distinctive role of emergency care is that emergency care is assigned to an emergency centre, they go to a place whose conditions are not known at all. In hospitals, for example, there has been a significant increase in security, a significant increase in guard services, but such a service cannot be provided to the emergency care unit; they go to two places like a place. This is a major flaw in the fact that those doing emergency care are paramedics as long as they are there in emergency care, but as soon as something happens, such violence, they become laymen, and yes, in principle it seems that it is not quite right and reasonable. In some ways I would also like to send the message that, as I told you last Friday, statistics show a harsh reality: every year there will be between 15 and 25 % more of these events. Last year's statistics on the Civil Protection Partnership project indicated that these serious acts of violence were considerably higher than in previous years. This is a serious message, and I would hope that when paramedics are beaten on the cheek, this house would not hit that other cheek by not regulating this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u144	Mr President! I have actually taken the floor because I am commenting on that very good point by Mrs Myllykoski, which she raised, that there are other professions where similar security is needed. What we are talking about here is probably just the other jobs that are targeting people's homes, and one example can now be raised, for example, by home care workers who are insecure. We have had a lot of discussions on this with the author, Mr Rantanen, and this is one of the things that has been discussed, among other things, by the trade union. In Tehy, over the years, there is quite a lot of work to be done: should we go with the paramedics, or should we look at other occupational groups more broadly? Personally, I strongly believe that the fact that we can sort out this situation for paramedics is by no means out of the other professional groups, but on the contrary: if we could open our heads, then we could also think about extending it to other professional groups, and in that sense I see that this is really important that we should make progress now. And then I would also like to say here that, even if this does not go directly to the ministry through the committee, I believe that this has now raised a great deal of debate, a great deal of support, that there is also a good chance that this will progress and that this will be achieved through other channels.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u145	Mr President! I took the floor because I still think it is necessary to tell you a little bit about what it means when you are subjected to abuse or violence. The fact is that there is a person inside that blue or red suit, and the person who is there is going to break in exactly the same way as any of us. And being subjected to such violence is no small thing, for when psychological injuries occur, they are very often much more difficult to treat and cause much longer symptoms than physical injuries. In practice, they cause sick leave, they even cause resignations, they even cause suicides. I myself have been involved in police post-traumatic workshops for years to repair broken police officers. I've seen countless times a cop break inside and out. Now the same treatment has been given to rescuers and paramedics. For the first time, I was there this year when it was arranged, and the results have been very good. I can tell you from the experience that has come: people have experienced a new beginning, even life has been saved. These people are in such a situation that they have a huge pack of rocks on their backs, and so many people feel that they will never get out of it, and this treatment will give them a second chance. The law does not prevent these acts of violence, it is clear, as has already been said many times, but the need for such post-traumatic workshops does tell the plain story that what is happening here in Finland and also that we must do everything we can to prevent these situations and that we have not done everything we can to prevent and deal with these situations. This is indeed the second time that an initiative with the same content is being discussed here and on the table. If it doesn't go through this time, let's do it so many times that it'll go through. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u146	Mr President! I agree with Mr S.H.I.E.L.D.'s idea that we should do it so many times that it goes through. It's a fatigue tactic, but sometimes it works if anything else doesn't work. It is particularly regrettable that the ministers are not here to listen to this debate, because this would be very important — both the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Social Affairs and Health — so that this message really gets through from this Chamber. But I am now relying on colleagues to make progress through you. I'm going to catch Mr. S.H.I.E.L.D. in the post-traumatic workshop, which was a really good lift. Yes, it has now been extended to the rescue service, and we have had Saku Sutelainen, chosen as the Fireman of the Year, who has been working on this matter. This is an excellent tool. It's a shame it took so long to get it to the rescue department from the police department, from which there's been some good experience. And seriously, as has been said, violence does not only break from the outside, it also breaks from the inside. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-19-ps-9.u147	Mr President! Not on the subject itself, but on how the third time could be done: it is certainly the case that it is done together. When we received 138 representatives from the default marking initiative, it meant that we had the first signatory from each parliamentary group. The initiative was identical, each was the first signatory. It was an altruistic act, each parliamentary group was actively involved. If this kind of consensus here is, then, Mr Rantanen, yes, I recommend that we network and then do this together.
