ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u2	Mr President! Restaurants have long been waiting for information about how their doors can be opened, and fortunately now we are finally deciding on this. Of course, the urgency has come, and of course it would have been desirable for us to have reached a final decision on these matters in the past. Of course, it is desirable — and as I listened to the news, I am hopeful — that people now dare to return to restaurants, because the best support for all sectors is that restrictions can gradually be lifted and, on the other hand, that people dare to move and go safely and return to use the services. In committee, however, an objection was raised by a group of members of the Assembly. It explicitly argued that regionally, communicable situations are very different across Finland — and this is something that the Constitutional Committee has repeatedly called attention to — and at the same time that categorical restrictions on time or number of people, without looking at the actual infection situation or the risk of infection, which could be done, for example, by establishing proper guidelines on safety intervals, hygiene and so on. That is another issue that the Government will probably have to consider in the coming days, as well as the fact that, now that these restrictions are being phased out, as is rightly the case, they will indeed be proportionate on a health basis. For example, it is a little difficult for many to understand how the maximum number of people in an area the size of an Olympic Stadium can be 500 when there can be a lot on the restaurant terrace in practice. However, it is a good thing that many cities have now begun to facilitate their licensing practice, and hopefully, as this opening of restaurants progresses, the terraces can be used safely so that the risk of infection does not increase. After all, all of us still need to remember that the interest rate has not disappeared. You can meet people, go out for dinner, but you have to remember that hygiene needs to be taken care of. In future speeches, we will set out in more detail the content of our objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u3	Mr President! It is a good thing that restaurants can finally open their doors from 1 June. However, in relation to the content of this law, we have objected in the meeting because there are things that need to be specified and reduced, both from the perspective of the citizens and of the restaurants and from the point of view of society. It is absolutely essential that we look at the epidemiological situation throughout the country in such a way that regional differences are taken into account. Otherwise, it will not be possible to restrict the freedom to conduct a business if it has not been done on the necessary grounds, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also referred. We have therefore submitted four statements which I will read here: The first is: ‘The government requires that the Council of State take account of the fact from and take immediate action to lift restrictions where such restrictions are no longer necessary in an area or to the extent provided for.’ We voted on this statement in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but unfortunately the government parties did not agree with this statement. The second statement is: ‘The Commission requires that all restrictive measures under the law should be health-based’. Third: ‘The Commission requires that the Council of State immediately engages in measures torestrict restrictions on the opening hours ofnutrition This would make it possible, among other things, for gas stations to offer coffee to professional drivers and others on the road, and an extended evening time would facilitate, for example, setting-up in a restaurant. Fourth statement: ‘The Commission requires that measures be taken by the State Council in order to ensure thatin the same period,inside the food movement,up This would make it easier for small restaurants and café entrepreneurs in particular, so that they would be more profitable to open their doors, because it may be that on this side of the place many restaurants will not open their doors because it is not profitable. And when we go towards autumn, then the evenings cool off again, and even outside the terrace may not become more accurate, and not everyone has access to the terrace at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u4	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the government and the relevant committees for their rigorous efforts to allow for the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases. Secondly, I would like to thank all Finns for their important efforts to control the corona virus in our country. That is what this is all about: stopping the pandemic and putting our society back on its feet when the worst is done first. Mr President! The epidemic is progressing and spreading where there is a chance. We are not going to give this virus that chance, and this in our minds is going to put our daily lives back on track piece by piece. The world has quickly changed in many ways, and some of the changes are likely to remain a permanent part of our everyday lives. Some of the changes are bold and workable new ways, some are painful and irreversible. In March we talked about the spirit of the winter war, and I dare continue to call for that same spirit. From this point of view, we stand together, but carefully, bearing in mind that the danger is not yet completely over. Mr President! The nutrition sector was subject to a rapid statutory ban and its sole objective was to halt the rapid spread of the corona virus in Finland. That's what we did together. With today’s layoffs, we see that the nutrition sector is not the only one that was hit badly by the virus. While company subsidies, protective equipment and restaurant subsidies have been a source of heavy criticism as spring progresses, it is worth remembering that during the emergency situation caused by the corona, we have taken extraordinary action and reacted in an unprecedented way to the new enemy. At the moment, everyone’s eyes will be on next week when the cafés and restaurants’ doors will be opened again. Light at the end of the tunnel, another step towards normal conditions. It is literally in our own hands how the opening up of society is going and how quickly we can get back to normal practice. When we remember to follow good hand hygiene and safety distances, we will at best be able to lighten the corona restrictions even before Midsummer. It all depends on the number of infections and how we manage to prevent the spread of the virus in the future. If we forget the danger and lose ourselves too much in the wonderful light of the summer sun, we will have to return to stricter restrictions. Mr President! Finns are a conscientious and responsible people, and I believe that a safe return to normal everyday life is a common goal for all of us. So next week, when we finally get to our favorite cafe and hopefully get to meet friends on the sunny terrace, take care of each other, take care of the security gap and wash hands. Let's not give this virus a chance to spread again. This plague will be stopped together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u5	Mr President! There is every reason for us to open restaurants in the future. It's a great thing for this society to be able to open up safely. Here the representatives of Laiho and Multala have already presented these aspects of ours, which we believe could safely open restaurants and give little more leeway and consideration to the entrepreneur side. They are fully justified, but I would like to say a few words about this level of legislative drafting. That has been criticised by the Constitutional Committee and many legal scholars. It cannot be the case, however extraordinary it is that we live under exceptional circumstances and that we have to make rapid legislation, that Parliament has so sadly little time to deal with such important laws. It has not been a surprise to the government, it may not have been surprising that at the end of May a decision must be made. The law should have been drafted much earlier in order to give Parliament more time to deal with it. And most of all, we are going to stretch here, but how are those entrepreneurs, the restaurants? They are still in doubt as to whether the law will come into force and, if so, in what form. It is no longer reasonable, because on Monday they must be fully operational in order to save their businesses. I understand, as I said, that emergency conditions require rapid action, but I do not think that this is at all something that could not have been prepared for earlier, even one week earlier. It was to be expected that the law would have to be enacted, that it would have to be changed. I hope that such presentations on such a schedule would no longer be brought here by this government, nor by any other government in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u6	Mr President! As I said in the referral debate, this is not an easy matter because we have to look at this from the point of view of health, the economy, the business, people's social activities and meetings, and then reconcile them here. I personally do not welcome the fact that this came at a rather late stage and this has been dealt with as a matter of urgency. I think the whole Parliament will agree on this. I would like to point out the main aspect of this report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health that we need to get started, but cautiously and with these health aspects in mind, that it is not possible to think that everyone is being blinked open at once, and that is why I would like to quote a little of this committee's report here. It is said that ‘the committee considers it important that restrictions such as the closure of restaurants are dismantled in the early stages with a degree of caution, The committee considers the gradual dismantling to be in the interest of both restaurants and their customers.’ And the committee continues: ‘The committee considers that the government’s proposal highlights the safety of customers and workers in the event of the opening of restaurants. At the same time, the Committee considers it important that the impact of the measures and the need to amend them be kept under regular review and that the necessary measures are taken, either to tighten or mitigate the restrictions." I believe that this report from the committee is at the heart of this report. Then there are a few points, also in relation to what the members of the Assembly have said in their own speeches. In fact, I think in that way, and I agree with the view of the committee, that we should do so with caution and that these restrictions should be lifted in the same way, by the same rules throughout the country. But then I would like to draw attention to these motions for statements by the Assembly, which, in my opinion, are moving in a much more liberal way. In other words, here, when the last effort says, among other things, that no more than 75 percent of the highest number of customers in the normal food business should be available, it is a little different whether half or 75 percent. When I look at these contributions, I do agree with the idea that, on the one hand, the Coalition Party has spoken hard in recent weeks in favour of repression, and now that we look at the ponies, there is a much more liberal position. I think there is a clear contradiction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u8	Mr President! I still criticise this government proposal that under these conditions profit-making business is not possible for most restaurants. I very much hope that today's votes will support the proposals of the People's Party and the People's Party, because the opening hours must be extended and customer places increased. We have limited, or actually banned, all business activities from these companies. It is clear that opening must take place in a controlled, secure and limited manner. But I do not want us to be here again next week to consider new support measures and refunds for restaurants. It is therefore clear that the above-mentioned opening must also be profitable. As has been said here before, we need to raise the issue of health, but people working in the restaurant industry, for example, have hygiene passports, and I think that we should be able to rely more on these people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u9	Mr President! The problem with this corona epidemic is that we still do not have precise information on its course and how it is transmitted — for example, on the importance of airborne aerosol contamination. It is known that, when coughing or even singing alone, tiny drops of viruses also spread several meters away from a symptomless infector. It is not known whether it causes, for example, the actual infection four metres ago, but there are experiences of such events as in restaurants where many have been infected without being in very close contact, and it is then known that it must have been transmitted by air. It is important that society is opened up as soon as possible, and therefore this cautious, gradual opening of restaurants is also wise. Here this spring, a number of speeches have called for a clearer and more unambiguous government strategy to control the infection. I think that all of us in this House must also demand the same of ourselves, so that the measures we are proposing and the amendments are also in line with its chosen strategy. I still think it is wise to move in the direction that we are really trying to suppress this disease, and once we have suppressed it, then it will be easy to use it to test, trace, isolate and treat it. That is why I personally am alienating this proposal for 75% of the number of customers indoors, because it does not, at least not in all places, allow for sufficiently long security intervals between customers. Well, these outdoor terraces are a good thing, because the outdoor air will also take these aerosols to the wind and in that sense it will be safer. That is why I would not be myself, for example, on this proposal for a meeting of 75% of the customers at this stage of departure. Hopefully it will be possible as soon as possible. Instead, regional disparities should be taken into account,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u10	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The government of Prime Minister Marin has done a very good job in the fight against this epidemic today, looking at matters. After all, we do not know what the situation is in the autumn, but when we look at things today, Finland is a success story in managing this epidemic. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of the work done by the Marin government in dismantling these restrictions. At this very moment, the government is confusing itself with whether the recommendation is such that it is not allowed to go to the cottage and to travel in the country, or whether the recommendation is such that it is allowed to go. Please make a recommendation that you can go to the cottage and that domestic tourism is good, provided, of course, that these security measures, of which much has been said, are complied with. Representative With regard to the wheat, I must say that, yes, the coalition is pushing for the suppression of this epidemic, given the need for society to open up, and I understand that this is also the government's line. As far as these dismantling operations are concerned, on Tuesday we voted on this right to sell out wine to restaurants during this period of restriction. The Greens voted unanimously against, and Mr Harjanne had a good Facebook script, where I think he was very factually justifying his own voting behaviour, but when Mr Harjanne wrote that the Greens do not have party or group discipline, and said that this joint voting is based only on teamwork and mutual solidarity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u13	Mr President! First of all, I'd like to thank you, Congressman. I want to blow up a very responsible and balanced speech. The Christian Democrats have been very consistent in this policy and I think it deserves recognition. On the other hand, Mr Zyskowicz's speech: I did not understand the line taken by the Assembly. When I look here at the statements of the Coalition Party, your chairman, Mr Petteri Orpo, has said that the coalition line is the suppression of the virus, it is the quickest way to the normal. This was April 22nd.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you to the Finns and thank you also to Parliament for having us in a situation where we can start to discuss these issues and we can manage to open up our society, still security ahead, and when we also get a little bit of blame from the government for us, we can get a little bit of momentum into the debate. So the restaurants will be allowed to open their doors on 1.6. From 1 January to 31 And the rush is, it is clear, but the rush must not be the reason for the unfair outcome. I am a little surprised by the fact that the government has been stalling on this matter. I'm gonna raise two points: As several Members have already said, from both the government and the opposition parties, I think that we should now tackle these regional solutions. Finland is a large country and the epidemic situation is very different in different regions. As a second point, I would like to raise a small issue relating to sport and the opening of terraces, which open up without customer restrictions at the same time as we have many sports clubs that play outdoors and have strict limits of 500 people, which means that for a very large number of sports teams around 400 spectators per match. We need to understand that many sports clubs will not be able to withstand such constraints, and I am a little concerned if these restrictions in this form will be present in sports clubs at the same time as terraces can freely have a thousand people, as some of the largest terraces do. Fair play is, in my view, extremely important in this area and, above all, it will facilitate people's understanding of why these restrictions exist and why they affect some areas in a slightly different way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u19	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Det är både välkommet och viktigt att restauranter och kaféer nu kan öppna igen. Det ox har både krögarna och vi kunder väntat på länge.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u20	Mr President! First of all, I am a little concerned that this good achievement that the Finns have achieved this spring, that we can now enjoy the summer in a much more freer atmosphere and situation than it may have been two and a half months ago, lulls us into the wrong conclusions — not because of what we are doing this summer, but, in fact, because we see what is going to happen in the autumn. The forecasts of THL, which I believe are valid, are based on the fact that the second wave is likely and will lead to a higher number of people in the hospital than the first wave. For this reason, now that Mr Kiuru is here too, I appeal — and I think Mr Kiuru sees it the same way — that the government should now be careful to change the instructions about going to the cottages, for example, or there may be a lot of other questions, so let us do one thing for one day. If there is going to be an auction between the parties — as the centre brought out its own position on cabins yesterday, well-meaning — then my fear is that at a time when more difficult guidelines may be needed again in the autumn, for which there will certainly be different views then, people will not take them seriously if this starts to go to auction. That you, the government, please, put in order the fact that you have one instruction at a time. Well, as far as restaurants are concerned: What worries me is that, next week, quite a few Finns will be disappointed — so they will be disappointed that their own local restaurant will not open, even though we now think that they will open next week. An example of Turku: a restaurant called Gustavo, 76 customers, they cannot open with a 50% filling rate and say that 50 seats would be enough. This is the case when considering whether it is possible, while maintaining safety, to introduce 75% of places in certain situations. Or even clearer is the question of regionalism — for example, Henrik Saarikorpi tells in Yle’s news about his Kuurnankulma-restauto restaurant in North Karelia. No new infections for weeks. When, for example, the chairman of the committee, Mr Vehviläinen, knows the restaurant world better there than the undersigned, is it right that they too should be subject to a 50 % limit, which, according to the Archipelago, means that he cannot open his lunch, buffet restaurant? Is it really necessary? Is it necessary? And the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has paid close attention to this. Now I hope, and here too I appeal to Minister Kiuru, who has the greatest influence and potential here, that the government will quickly now, by decree, give regional separations to these rules so that, for example, the Saarikorven Kuurnankulma in Joensuu can open up next week. That will also lead to this constitutional crisis, which we would also like to avoid.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u21	Mr President! The Finns of Peru have an objection to this motion and a statement. True Finns consider it important to suppress the pandemic by means of specific measures. In that sense, it must be said that the assembly has a hunch in these speeches, a certain degree of illogicality, just to say that we are a little on the same path, but then we would be prepared to give the restaurants a 75% fill. The truth is, if we have 75 percent, then it's the same as giving 100 percent. Of course, we all know that this is just an itch of restaurant entrepreneurs and we want to show them that we are a little more pro-restaurant, that is the situation. And so I am sure I agree that many people have the pain of opening or not, but we have to go ahead of this pandemic in this regard. However, there is a big problem with the government's proposal, and the problem is that all the restaurants are lumped together, so to speak, so-called liquor restaurants as well as road stations. The problem is, of course, that we in this Chamber do not understand what it is like to be a truck driver or someone else who has to work at a different time than we do. There are a lot of people who need those services, not because they are drunk, but because they need to take a shower, do the washing and such and also the eating. There are many drivers, for example, who leave for traffic at the time the restaurants close. Now they take their own lunches and go and wash their armpits in some curaver. This is the most problematic part of this whole performance that you can't do a lot of different kinds of stuff. We cannot lump roadside stations, traffic stations, lunch restaurants, food restaurants of all appearances and restaurants into the same guidelines. In principle, there would still be a chance, if there were little willingness and resources and endurance, even to do this filling in differently. Now customer places are set according to certain criteria, but many restaurants might have empty business space next door — rent a little bit of it, get more squares and be able to expand if you could take a closer look at the restaurants where there is less room for customers. [The President knocks ] Mr President! To the extent that I propose that Parliament accept the amendment to the general arguments in accordance with objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u22	Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to comment on this debate as well. I think it is important that we share a similar assessment of the situation. In these discussions, which we have had in relation to restaurants and their further restrictions, I have been somewhat annoyed by the fact that we think that this current disease situation is due to the fact that there have been no infections in some areas for weeks and that they will not occur until the next wave is at risk. We must remember that these rather significant restrictions that have been made are still on. People have been working at a considerable distance, and when adults take off on June 6, they will certainly meet friends in so-called neutral countries, i.e. restaurants at dinner, for example, the group whose contacts have been pretty low will meet in restaurants over the next few weeks. That is why it is important to remember that these restrictions, which have been made, have at the moment brought down this disease situation throughout Finland. However, when contacts are restarted, it is quite clear that the problem at national level is the same in every region: the number of infections that may occur in connection with the dismantling of these restrictive measures. I would not like to go to regret later that we were not careful. The world's examples of the risk involved in restaurants must be taken seriously. That is why I said in the previous debate that it is not appropriate to play with this filling rate at this stage when there are very uneven seating and standing places in some restaurants. It may also be that if there are really many standing places, then we are in a situation where, according to this decree, everyone must have a seat, there will be quite a lot of people if we start out with 75 percent of our customers. In principle, I could not assume that we would not try to keep security intervals in all operations, including restaurants. This is a very important issue. The terraces must have safety distances, the terraces must have a seat, there must still be that 50% limit inside, precisely because we now know the information we have available today about the spread of the virus, but the situation may change. That is why we must be careful, because there are obvious risks involved, and this cannot be flirted with. This is so big that Finns can move safely. We must in every way prevent the spread of this virus, and it will be done in a controlled manner: every two weeks it will be evaluated, and again it will be time for the Midsummer Week to assess this particular issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u23	Mr President! Schoolchildren are going on summer leave today, and I can’t help but recall the apex I received about 30 years ago when I was learning to read. One proverb left in mind for an experimental boy about that father - in - law — a better point than a risk. Vaksa is the size of the thumb and forefinger of the applied palm, and now we need even fairer safety distances. That proverb is still an important reminder, and I think that this government proposal for a cautiously moderate opening of restaurants is quite right and good, because the risk of corona is not over and we must avoid new outbreaks. Quite rightly, as has been emphasised in this debate, we need to make decisions on a health-based basis and remember why we have gone into all this: to protect the health of Finns. Mr President! I wonder whether it has been difficult for the assembly to learn, after a long period of government, that the opposition also has a responsibility for what they have to say. Is it not good that the opposition's positions are also being asked and asked to be clarified if there are any ambiguities? We want to work together, don't we? I would now like to ask quite sincerely the assembly, which now seems to be pushing for a more liberal line: what is the basis for your change of line? In March, President Orpo said that the celebration must stop and that movement must be limited, that we should prefer to do more and faster than too little and too late. Is this the other line? Restaurants open and wine flowing?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u24	Mr President! For the sake of fairness, Mr Mykkänen's speech was quite correct, as he pointed out cautiously, that, even on the same day, there were somewhat different positions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u27	Honorable Speaker! It is wonderful that Finland is slowly returning to normal. I would also like to thank Minister Lintilä for his commendable defence of domestic tourism in the attack on the bayonet by Varhila, Secretary-General of the Social Democratic Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Right now, domestic tourism is very important, especially as the restrictions remain both internal and external. Here Mr Laakso made a very good proposal, which I warmly support. This initial presentation by Mr Juvonen on the consideration of heavy traffic breaks is very important precisely because domestic tourism is also increasing. For example, according to the Moomin world survey, 90% of their customers would be operating and coming just as normal this summer, as early as June 6, and the representative of Laakso's hometown, Tykkimäki, opens on June 10th, so yes, when people are moving on roads, these breakpoints are actually needed, and therefore opening hours must also be made possible more widely. When this proposal was not taken into account by the government, and apparently it was not considered very carefully by the Greens, I hope that, when we have a possible vote, the Greens, in particular, will support this proposal made by Mr Laakso, which is justified in my view. In fact, if breakpoints close at 11:00, what will the knights of the road do? Of course, they go for up to tens of miles to the city centers, where they may find a shop that is open for 24 hours. This will of course increase climate emissions, particulate matter emissions in these urban centres. In addition, more people will then be packed in the same place, and this will, of course, lead to Mr Räsänen’s mention of the risk of airborne transmission, which may raise risk assessments. This is also important from that point of view. - Thank you. [PresidentMattiVanhanen :I will ensure from Mr Junnila that you will certainly support ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u32	Mr President! The government has rightly been commended for taking this corona virus seriously. These restrictive measures have been introduced in Finland, perhaps even partly ahead of time. We've been careful. The risks have been minimized. It has cost a great deal financially, but we have saved lives — as the statistics show, it is also reflected in international comparisons. Finland has really taken this seriously, not only by the government, but also by the citizens, as they have been given. Now the government is equally determined to open up, but here too, reason is being used, reflection is being used, and this opening, which is being made, is being made gradually, not with a relapse, because, as the Minister has just said, these risks are unknown. In fact, this is a virus demon, about which we do not exactly know how sensitive this nation is to accept it then, and then we will minimise the risks here too. Restaurants, which is now the subject of this issue, have, as we know, been the key sources of international comparisons to the fact that this virus has then started to spread violently around the world, even from tourist centres, since tourists have returned to their homes, where we are of course talking about a very sensitive area, which has been the nature of restaurants, nightclubs and cafés. These restrictive measures have, of course, been burdensome. Now, this decision, which is being taken, takes a sensible position on the angle of allowing for a longer run, a medium run, this regional opening on the basis of epidemiological reasons. All right, that's exactly what we're gonna do. Perhaps it is also worth considering here that restaurants have different characteristics, that they should also be viewed, and I would point out that there will certainly be reflection in these sports competitions as well. Of course, it is a matter of course, of course, in the air, that there is a limit of 500 people at sporting events. The Olympic Stadium in Helsinki is a different place than someone at the basketball court or someone like that, so of course this consideration should come at some point. In part, however, I would like to focus my speech on what many others have referred to, including Mr Guzenina, namely, the role of the opposition and the assembly in particular. It is true that the government is being blamed for a situation in which, however, it has been unanimously stated that the government has done well. Finland has done well, everyone thanks, but the spirit of the opposition is to force people to find reasons,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u40	Mr President! It is good to continue with the excellent speech by Mr Kiuru. It is precisely so that it is not only about sport, but also that it unites us and creates a positive sense of community and even a sense of Community nationalism — it can even be deduced from the fact that the Council of State has now harnessed sport as a figurehead for this Finland action campaign. I therefore hope that the Government will at the same time draw attention to the fact that the best support for both sport and, of course, for culture is that events can be organised safely, so that, especially when it comes to outdoor areas, where we know that the risk of infection is much lower, and when it is possible to organise, as Mr Kiuru well described here, staggered entry, advance ticket sales, safety distances, separate audiences and so on, the fact that this limit of 500 people is not categorical, but, for example, the soon-to-start Veikkaus League could then organise events for a little larger audience in July. As far as restaurants are concerned, of course there is a slight slicing, and perhaps the main concern is that the information on how to open their doors to restaurants was really late, there has been very little preparation time. I myself have tried my best to answer those questions, but it was difficult, of course, when the guidelines came only this week. Well, now they exist, and that's a good thing, but still some of the restaurants are wrestling with the question of whether it's worth opening the doors. Here Minister Kiuru justified this lack of regional disparities by the fact — and this is the case now — that the disease is progressing in the cluster and is at risk of being dismantled and spread. But if, for example, we are dealing with the only luncheon in the village that does not necessarily have the opportunity to expand the terrace, and if there have been no cases of disease for weeks, then yes, if the Constitutional Committee has also paid significant attention to this issue, then we would also hope that the Government will give serious consideration to this regionality. Now that I understand that these restrictions are to be discussed again in the government in the near future, it is also worth checking what is still recommended. Yesterday, for example, there was quite a disproportionate and unusual situation when official recommendations still include, for example, the avoidance of domestic tourism, but at the same time Minister Lintilä calls for domestic travel — and I know that many ministers have also been in their own cabins. It cannot be that official recommendations are in conflict with what the ministers or us parliamentarians are doing in our normal course of action. Everything must be in accordance with the recommendations and also with the restrictions that apply to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u41	Mr President! I would also like to thank the government for these actions. If you think about the time a few months ago, you lived in a very different situation and you didn't know what the future would bring, and now we get to be in this situation where our actions have been bitten and we get to open up and return to normal. What is important in this opening is that we have a strategy and we move forward one step at a time. We have now come to the conclusion of what was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, that we are taking these health and epidemiological aspects, which mean opening up calmly, this 50%, and these times — and unfortunately not regionally, but in Finland as a whole at this first stage. And this aspect was supported by THL, HUS, STM and our leading health policy experts. Of course, the government recognized this regional and industrial perspective, but it still leaned on this health perspective in this opening-up. The most important thing, in my view, is that, now that we start taking this away, we are always looking at the consequences of the gradual opening-up of society, and there must be an opportunity to take swift action if it seems that the disease is going to spread more quickly. In that sense I am no such expert in the field of epidemiology, but this disease does not look at any provincial or municipal boundaries, and that is why it is extremely important that in this first stage of the whole of Finland there are the same rules of the game that work, although I do understand that for entrepreneurs and industry this poses challenges and problems. I myself also took a moment to reflect on this line of the Assembly, in the sense that you in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health also insisted that customer seats be raised to 75%. However, it is a tough demand, and at least I do not know what the health aspects are.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u42	Mr President! The coalition line is very clear: we want to suppress the corona virus and, at the same time, open society safely. At a time when society is being opened up, it is also really necessary to test, trace, isolate, manage the implementation of the strategy so that everyone can quickly reach the tests and chains at a low threshold, keep the disease under control, and when opening operations are carried out, it is important to take care of safety intervals, good hand hygiene and other instructions. These do not contradict each other. The Coalition Party has not suggested opening nightclubs. We believe that it is good at this stage to keep them closed, and when, for example, Mrs Kiljunen raised these viral links here, they are precisely these nightclubs from which they started and they are not opening up. It is about restaurant activities and cafes and opening them up. We have no restrictions on shopping centres, for example. There may be hundreds of people at a time, and there are no restrictions on it, and in relation to it these are not right in relation to each other. Personally, I would see that when we can stay here for a long time with this virus, it is important to follow these principles so that the safety distance, hand hygiene and other hygiene are taken into account in all activities, whether we are on the loose, whether we are in the workplace or whether we are in shops or restaurants. Our society cannot stand the fact that we are keeping very tight all the time, bearing in mind, however, that we have a good disease situation at the moment and that it should remain that way. At the same time, it is absolutely essential for regional attention to be given to the way in which these restrictions are being extended. As far as alcohol policy is concerned, we believe that the opening time for the 24th is when the restaurant can be open and should not now be confused with that alcohol policy. If we want to make alcohol policy, then we have to open the alcohol law and then make alcohol restrictions. Putting a different time for alcohol and drinking is not on a very sustainable basis. There are other communicable diseases of general concern, such as sexually transmitted diseases: it is known that sexual behaviour is more active if you are under the influence of alcohol, but no one has proposed any restrictions on syphilis. So when this is an infectious disease law, let's really stay on infectious diseases as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u43	Mr President! Here's a balanced presentation to get started. Of course, it would be a goal for us to have as flexible legislation as possible and for us to be able to increase flexibility when we learn and know how the opening up of restaurants and other societies will affect the epidemic situation. That's what they're trying to do. The less disease is circulating in society, the more people have confidence in movement. It is also not responsible to urge people to do what they used to do if we were in an epidemic situation. There are certainly some restrictions, and at the moment there is hardly an example in which simply tracing the supply chains could, by the way, keep society open as usual. Of course, that would be terribly nice, but perhaps at the moment a little unrealistic in Finland and anywhere else. Instead, I believe that the fact that people are able to go to the cottages and have little contact with people there is quite clever, but it is also not possible to think that we have regional borders where the disease stays when people travel. There is also a little either-or-choice: if we call for very regional restrictive measures and then think that domestic tourism is going to take off in the summer, then perhaps there is some kind of mental conflict, too, because, as has been well said here, the virus does not really stay in the area but is moving along with human flows, and that is something that needs to be followed up. I hope that such a responsible line can be pursued together here and always, of course, as flexible as possible. Some people have been puzzled by the line taken by the Assembly, which suggests that it would be common in some way for statements made by the opposition not to be adopted in this Chamber. I understand that people's confidence in politics suffers from this kind of activity, which you have done during the last term of government, for example, with regard to this social farce, where a totally failed model was not whistled out, even your wise Members could not whistle it out. Also in issues such as equality, the issue of abortion law, neither did those Members of Parliament come here to vote, but were absent who would have supported the cause of the opposition. And then you are saying here that it is somewhat unusual that a statement by the Assembly has not been adopted, even though it is supported. This does not increase people's confidence in politics, that you are acting astounded when your statement is not accepted here. That does not mean that there is something the party is not in favour of.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u44	Mr President! This debate shows that it was easier to impose restrictions than it is to dismantle them. I would like to say that here too there are differences of interpretation between parties as to what is safe and what is cautious. In this debate, it seems that the coalition represents the most liberal of all. You can also be asked what is your effort in paragraph 3, which says that the restaurants will be open until 24 hours. Does that mean that the drinking is also until midnight, or will the drinking stop at 10:00, and then the restaurants close at 2:00? But then I will also return to this rather balanced speech by Mr Mykkänen. He seemed to know a very well - known restaurant world in the river, and I know some of them myself, especially those food restaurants. There is a small, good restaurant with only 45 seats, and there is also a customer location restriction — the restaurant manager said — that they dare to open their restaurant so that although only half of it can be used, and that most of their customers come there as couples and just the two of them. It's quite common that there are only half the people in the restaurant. But of course we all understand that this is a big question for the profitability of restaurants, which I am sure every restaurant will have to consider for its part on 1 June and now this weekend. I would like to mention this aspect of regionalism. It has come from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and also from this Chamber across party boundaries, that it should be possible to take account of it now that these restaurants are being opened up, and that is what I am thinking. I think it is safe to start off with the same regulations at first in the whole country, but then, before Midsummer, would be the first time to look at whether these regional variations can be introduced. I believe that this would be well in line with the position of our committee and, hopefully, of the whole Parliament, that we should proceed cautiously.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u45	Mr President! We've been asking for the line of the Coalition Party. I think that the line, in general terms in this fight against the epidemic, is quite clear: an attempt is being made to suppress this disease, but taking into account the need to open up Finnish society with caution, gradually. And, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that this is also a government line. The Government does not want to use the term ‘suffocation’,but I have correctly understood that we have a glove,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u48	Mr President! This objection to the assembly does not indicate the time when the assembly would stop drinking alcohol. So it is proposed that restaurants should be open at 24 hours, but I hope that, when Mr Mykkänen will speak soon, you will tell us whether you would be closing this alcohol consumption at 22, 23 or 24 hours. It is good that the tourism recommendation is being reformed, such as domestic nature tourism or cottages should be removed from such disapproval. Both for the prevention of the epidemic and then for the promotion of mental health, it is important that when summer comes, Finns can disperse from the capital region, for example, more safely to their cottages and potential natural sites — which they have already done, but it is important that a clear recommendation be made about it. The Minister went away, but I would be very interested to know at what stage this mask survey is now taking place and when recommendations will be made on the possible use of people's masks. When we look at news pictures of Europe, such as in Belgium, Germany, France, and Italy, the terraces of restaurants sit on the face of masks. Is this becoming a government recommendation? I would still encourage the government, as we move forward with this opening up of society, to take this regional separation seriously and to take it seriously. A further question to the Finns on this statement. It is certainly justifiable for heavy-duty drivers to take care of their opportunities to hold breaks, but it must be borne in mind that, at the same time, gas stations, for example, would, in practice, be open night by night to other drivers than heavy-duty drivers, and that could of course bring young people together in a large number of service stations. Of course, there is a good thing about it that there is no alcohol serving there, and then there are better conditions for these safe relations too. But I hope that you will comment on this, that I know a little bit to consider,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u49	Mr President! The government is taking a step forward and, as the opposition has said, the epidemic is still on the way, and that is why I am surprised at this leap and risk in their presentations on restaurant activities. The important thing is that restaurant activities are opened up. It is essential for Finnish domestic tourism in order to get people moving. This is a big opportunity for domestic tourism this summer. Opening up restaurant activities also means that there are still those strict hygiene and safety measures, which will then also require a lot of measures for its restaurant staff, and it is justified by this gradual opening up. I myself believe and support what the chairman of the committee, Mr Vehviläinen, said that these regional evaluations must be carried out at this time of June, and if the situation of infection is such that it is possible, then these should be introduced. We have five weeks in North Karelia without infection, and it does surprise me that they would not be able to introduce them. I'm joining that sports and sports party myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u52	Mr President! On the basis of this debate, it seems that we all agree that a regional review and close monitoring of developments is necessary,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u55	Mr President! The government has succeeded in managing and managing this corona epidemic very well compared internationally. Thank you to the government, and of course also to the Finns for respecting the recommendations and these restrictions. The disease has now subsided to some extent, with fewer infections and fewer deaths, but the danger is not over. We must continue to focus on patience and diligence in the dismantling of restrictions. Human safety and health must continue to be protected in different places. There has now been a little criticism from the government parties on the opposition side and from the opposition, of course, to the government in the normal way, but I would say that it was a great thing to hear that there is also a great deal of praise between the various criticisms when things have gone well, and Mrs Zyskowicz's praises, in particular, for the government's actions. And it is quite right that there should also be critical places to look at, and one example that I can agree with is the point raised by Mr Pauli Kiuru, which was raised by Mr Multala and many other sportsmen here, Mr Eskelinen, also in his recent speech, that is, now that the terraces can be opened and the big terraces can have more than 500 people at their best, there can still be a thousand people there, but there can, under certain conditions and criteria, be action, but then, for example, at a sporting event where there are large stadiums or facilities where there can be loosely, the limit would still be the 500. There is a clear problem here, and it is good that this issue has been raised. Minister Kosonen has also responded publicly to this, and it is hoped that this issue and policy will be reviewed again in the government too, taking into account the concerns of these previous good speeches, the concerns that sports clubs have — but of course health ahead, the corona is still a deadly virus, and in that sense this must always be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u56	If you don't mind, this issue of sports audiences has already been dealt with in a variety of ways, and it does not really fall under the heading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u57	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Guzenina and Mr Koskinen, for their compliments on the balanced speech, but I was just wondering whether you listened to it completely or whether we really agree: [MariaGuzenina’s interlude] It is quite true, as has been said here, that this spring has gone well, and for that we owe the Finns — thanks to the Finns. All parliamentary parties under the leadership of the government have also been able to take rapid legislative action with restrictions. The line of the Coalition Party is that we must be able to keep this disease in suffocation. In practice, the epidemic is now suffocating, which means we have about 30 infections per day, but it will not happen by itself if we believe in THL. The second wave is coming from there — hopefully they are wrong, but if you are believing it is coming. What we are calling for at the moment is that now we really need to get the production of protective equipment to an adequate level, to be prepared for their widespread introduction. It is great that yesterday we were able to inform, or whether the day before yesterday we were able to produce about one million masks a day in Finland, but, for example, based on the industry's exit strategy, we would need between 5 and 6 million of them a day in order to protect staff widely in the service industries. I think Guzenina asked me if I had to eat on the mask at the restaurant. I think that eating it is quite difficult, but it is not a joke, it is not a joke anywhere else in Europe that staff might need to be used in service professions. And, for example, when the subway is moving from the same city — for example, with Guzenina — there are already enough people there to make sense to move with masks. The other thing is the testing. At the moment there are probably not so many cases without symptoms, but we must have the situation that if the epidemic starts to multiply in the autumn, people will feel that they are going there on a low threshold, without a doctor’s referral. We need to be able to test tens of thousands of people a day, get those chains fast. Tracking application: At the moment I am a little concerned that this call for tender, which has now actually been launched from STM or THL, seems to be the type that will take a very long time before the tracing application is made available to Finland. It should be in our hands as soon as it starts... These are the issues — when we have been asked what the strategy of the Coalition Party is. We must be prepared to keep this disease suppressed, and new means are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u60	Mr President! Mr Räsänen asked for some clarification on this proposal, and I am happy to answer it. After all, the goal of the Finns Party is to restore society to normality and not, in itself, make any changes to working time legislation, for example, or such changes,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u63	Mr President! I would like to correct that misunderstanding by Mr Junnila. You said I even talked about alcohol percentages. I wasn't exactly talking. I was talking about 50 % of customers, and I told them that when the preparation was about whether the security gap could be explicitly maintained only by requiring it in legislation, there was a very hard discussion with experts about whether to demand more. This government proposal, which came before Parliament, was based precisely on the fact that its security interval should be genuinely realised, and I therefore suspect that the 75% number of customers would in some places lead to the fact that even the security interval that we, on the recommendation of the THL, would require for every Finn to respect, i.e. 1 to 2 metres, would not be possible to comply with, and that is why this number of customers is relevant. I am well aware that the restaurant industry and, I believe, MaRa, even in the public domain, have been hoping for two corrections: that this number of customers could be raised to 75 at the very first stage, and, on the other hand, that it would also be possible to be a little late in the clocks. And, as I have said many times in public, it is not sensible at this stage to take that risk in relation to the epidemiological situation, because these restrictions in each region are based on the fact that we have pushed down this infectivity with these restrictions. This can happen, you know, in my own country in Satakunta as well as in some other province, that when people come together again, the infection can be caused, and now, everywhere in Finland, we should commit ourselves to these safe general guidelines, and that territoriality will be evaluated, as has been said many times here, right away during the Midsummer Week. If this starts well, all goes well, then that regional review is precisely the result of the disease situation in which these restrictions have been lifted, but we do not yet have such a situation, and the necessity must be assessed every moment. This must be necessary at all times, and in this situation it is absolutely necessary to start at national level, because we do not yet have a natural state in which all restrictions have been lifted and then there would have been many weeks and there would have been no infection. This epidemiological situation, too, must be taken seriously in Parliament once and for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u64	Mr President! In the discussion on the opening of restaurants, one has been slightly less concerned, and that is the safety of the staff in restaurants. Mr Koponen has rightly pointed out that the staff have hygiene passports, but in reality according to what the representative has Mr Räsänen pointed out the corona and its gripping process, the hygiene passport does not enable it. But it is a good foundation to start building staff security, because there is already an understanding of the importance of hygiene when this passport is completed. However, it should be remembered that the employer must provide adequate social facilities for employees in relation to the number of employees. At this point, I would like to ask myself how it can be possible for the staff to have their own safety in restaurants as well, because it is known that it is not so easy to follow these distances from one meter to two meters behind the bar, let alone that, in this disease situation, the social facilities of the restaurants would be equipped with properly equipped toilets and dining facilities. In other words, we must be able to take this into account, and it is also important, for the sake of its staff's own safety, to point out — and here I am sure we must thank Mr Silk — and to consider whether it would be sensible to begin to consider the use of masks at this point, both in terms of customer contact and, in particular, for the sake of their own safety, through mutual contact. So let's take care of the employees. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Satakunta. Today it became a month that there were no cases of infection detected in laboratory studies. That is certainly an important message, so that now, during the Midsummer Week, we can consider what stage we are at, what region or region might be here in the context of greater liberalisation. I hope and trust that the government will see to it that this situation is actually examined. Although the President said that if that sport had now been sported, it must be said, as a race enthusiast, that restaurant activities and races are equally... It is also a source of income for the organiser of the competition, and in that sense the putting on of race sports in general was perhaps a little oversized to that extent because it is a hobby in which the family circle is with the horse. There's no close contact there with anyone else. In that sense, I hope that rapid action will be taken to dismantle it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u65	Mr President! Feedback has come from these opening hours, and in the morning we presented at five o’clock. I have received feedback from service station entrepreneurs who serve professional drivers who have strict rest breaks immediately after five. They must be observed and, of course, it is important for road safety to have access to the proper premises for morning coffee, breakfast and toilet facilities and so on. So maybe we should have reconsidered it at five o'clock. By the way, I don't think people will be there at five o'clock, as it were, causing more risk. Then, to what Mrs Myllykoski said about the raves, I have just said: when we talk about the infectious disease law and we are talking about the nutritional business here, that is something that has to do with the audience, even though the President warned us a little bit about this subject. There's a link there. The security plans exist in clubs, in the League of Juikkaus and certainly also in nutrition, and I believe that the sports community is committed to acting as a priority for security. I would like to thank the representatives of Mr Eskelinen, Mr Asell and Mr Myllykoski for their good contributions, and I would remind you that Mr Kosonen will certainly be making the most important decision on sport policy this year when he answers a written question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u66	Ärade talman, Mr President! Det är ju faktiskt en Jätteglad sak att vi är i en sådan situation att vi kan diskutera om att öppna restauranter och kaféer och försöka få livet så normalt som vöjligt. Jag som bor i Helsingfors och i centrum lever i mitte av en massa människor och känner mig faktiskt inte speciellt rädd just nu. Det har också variants valdigt positivt tycker jag — eller ska jag säga, vi har kanske hafttur — att till exempel de som jobbar i kassor och i butiker inte har dragbats särskilt myckettrots att jag ser att det i Helsingfors hela tiden funnisskor i butikerna, åtminstone emellanåt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u67	Mr President! At the end of the day, I believe that in many respects the lines of government and opposition are very close to one another. In fact, the government has now clearly changed its strategy here some time ago, i.e. quite clearly the intention is to press down the disease, and it is also said directly, and yet such a normal democracy, hopefully also during an exceptional period, is the fact that the opposition has the opportunity to highlight those points which should be given even more attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u70	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, the representative of the Coalition Party, openly acknowledged this and described well what has been the culture of action here in Parliament for a long time, contrary to what was previously stated in the communication of the Coalition Party. They built a picture for people that even experienced MPs here were particularly surprised that one statement was not adopted here. Then I asked an experienced Member of Parliament the question of how many opposition statements during the last term in the government in this Chamber were accepted, but I have not received an answer. Of course, it is important to challenge those lines both within the opposition and within the government, and I think it is important that the party openly expresses its views in opposition and government. And as we know, not every party's goals go right through, but it is clear that alcohol law and other issues that have been raised here are also being dealt with and dealt with by the government. That is what we have already heard about, for example, this small brewery issue. Perhaps you were surprised that we wanted to openly highlight those political processes. I also appreciate your parliamentarians, those who, in previous periods, have openly highlighted the policies that have formed within the parties and here in Parliament. The questions about orders and other mechanisms for decision-making that are not so desirable are those that should be dealt with here in the Chamber. Let's get to the point. With regard to the new country, we still have cases of disease, there are cases in Helsinki. I would like to ask the Minister, when much is being said about the lifting of restrictions, that what kind of targeted measures could we bring even more strongly to Uusimaa? For example, in public transport, would it be advisable to wear a mask that would be useful for us to be able to press down the disease situation here in Uusimaa? The second question with regard to mobile application is that when we could make it available. And then, of course, with regard to the vaccine, the question is that what action is being taken at the moment to ensure that we get the vaccine used as quickly as possible. I believe that one of these summers with less events, cancelling cultural events, restrictions on restaurants will be tolerated, but what happens if next summer is another such summer where we have to restrict very strongly such big events? That's why I wish everything was done for it, and I'm sure it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u71	I hope that this issue will not be extended to public transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u72	Mr President! This has been a good and constructive debate, and I think it is easy to see that there is a broad consensus in Finland that this big picture, this policy of the Marin government to combat this epidemic, has been a good and successful policy. Similarly, I think we agree that now that restrictions are being lifted, we should proceed with caution and step-by-step and also prepare for setbacks. The fact that, in various individual cases and details, the opposition, the assembly, has been blackmailed and encouraged by the government, as was referred to here in March, to introduce these exceptional circumstances, has been justifiable and justified, even when criticised afterwards. As far as this criticism of the strategy is concerned, perhaps above all, the criticism has been that it seems somewhat unclear to the government itself and also to others what this strategy has been, which I think is now clear: we are trying to suppress the need to open up Finnish society. Minister Kiuru is spinning his head that it has not been unclear, apparently. Well, at least there have been such events, for example, that during the dark hours of the night the Prime Minister's Office has gone to the STM website to correct the description of the Government's strategy there. Well, if it were absolutely unambiguous, perhaps such nightly repairs would not have been necessary. For a long time, ministers said specifically that the aim is to prevent the spread of the virus, not to prevent the spread of the virus. This may seem like a little breakup, but there's a difference. And I understand that we now agree, we all agree, are being pushed as close to zero as possible, given the need to open up society. No one here will think that we are going to press zero with all the means at our disposal, because then we would shut down this society again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u75	Mr President! I would like to point out, however, that if an expert from the world wanted to draw something from this debate, then that as an expert, a person is responsible for the overall picture when making certain recommendations or writing texts. And now that I have listened to this debate today, there has been a background for the opening of schools, which has been criticised. And now there has been talk of allowing more than 50% of people to be present in restaurants and about reducing opening hours until midnight and allowing buffets to be allowed. Then there has been the talk that tourism should start to be recommended in Finland and that more people should be involved in sporting events. Then, when you add these together, you will notice what has already happened. Mr Mykkänen spoke about the fact that there have been around 30 cases per day. Last week there have been over 50, this week over 60 per day. In other words, clearly certain opening activities may have had an effect on the spread of the disease. And that is why this law, too, seeks to move with great caution and restraint and see how this spreads. And then we'll see if we can open up more or limit it. The idea, however, is that we could talk here soon about the fact that Christmas will also be cancelled. You have to understand this overall consideration of this long time. Even Christmas is cancelled, you can't go shopping anymore if the second wave of autumn succeeds. At this point we need to understand when we talk about 50%, while opening schools, while perhaps relaxing domestic tourism, that there can be more people in power, more people dying. Here's your health ahead of us. There is definitely health ahead of us, and that is why the state is now ready to take out a loan in order to compensate for lost earnings for restaurants, nightclubs, other entrepreneurs, because we want to save Finnish lives. That is why the main responsibility for this overall picture now lies with the government. The government is going one step at a time and is prepared to take steps behind us, so that we do not stand in the way of Sweden. There their strategy has been flawed; that is not what we want to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u76	Mr President! Finns have been very conscientious in following the instructions and instructions given to them by the ministries. It is good, and it has brought the disease situation under good control in Finland. That is why it is very unusual that the direction of the government becomes contradictory messages about guidelines. Most recently, in connection with domestic tourism. A lot of conflicting messages have been received in the past, for example on protective equipment and testing, but now in relation to this domestic tourism, when another minister even recommends tourism and the other says that it is not yet advisable to travel. Finns usually have summer holidays in the summer, and this has been under strict restrictions for a couple of months, so it seems very natural that you can now travel in your own country, use domestic services, find new areas in Finland where you have not necessarily travelled before — of course, in accordance with good hand hygiene and good safety interval policy, we all want to stick to that. At the same time, however, there is silence from foreign countries. We have a lot of infections in Russia and Sweden, and we should also take a stand on that. Now we are talking here about domestic tourism, which, however, is a small risk at home if we take care of everything and take responsibility for our own health as well. And, of course, if you are concerned yourself and you do not want to go to a region such as Uusimaa, where there have been more infections, then of course you can go to other places in Finland and skip Linnanmäki, for example. Well, here too, there was a good speech from Mrs Myllykoski on staff safety, and it is important to ensure the safety of staff equally. It is also a great deal of other protection and compliance with the security intervals in the restaurant itself, and I believe that this is also the reason why restaurant owners pay attention to the safety of both customers and staff. We're looking forward to that facial mask sweep. When we manage to open up restrictions, this could be one possibility, for example, in areas where there is more infectious disease, or if there were an increase in the number of such diseases, for example in public transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u77	Mr President! Yes, you can say with joy that you are Finnish and say here that we have succeeded in this fight against the corona virus, and now, finally and finally, we can open up society and restrictions, but this must be done ahead of people's safety and health, in accordance with the precautionary principle, just as the committee in this report states that restrictions such as closure must be phased out in the early stages. And that is what is being done and what is being done, and I do not think that anyone in this Chamber will disagree with that. Of course, it will be very important in the future to look at this regionality and to see whether, in some cases, these restrictive measures can be dismantled. I would like to ask the Minister, for example, when it comes to the draft statement tabled by Mr Juvonen, which concerns the round-the-clock opening hours of the rest stops used by heavy traffic, whether it has been considered and considered whether consideration can be given to nutrition movements in this way. For example, Mr Guzenina made a very good speech on this. I believe that the government is considering and considering these different issues so that society works, taking into account all groups of people and the needs of our employment and business sectors. This is what Mrs Myllykoski raised: I did myself wonder that we have talked a lot about the safety of our customers, as we should, and about health and the safety of them coming to nutrition shops, and also about entrepreneurship and the livelihood and profitability of entrepreneurs, but that I am also concerned about staff, staff safety and health. And we know that in all restaurants, the sanitary facilities may not necessarily be quite such that there are many meters of security between the staff. Yes, I would also ask the Minister when it came to this use of facial masks for staff, that this has been considered and considered. On the other hand, I would also like to ask about this, since we will certainly have these ice cream shops and quite small nutrition stores for the summer: In them especially such breaks are important and ventilation issues and so on. So it is known that the hygiene passport does not really protect us from getting the virus, but of course the hygiene passport gives us a lot of guidance and information on how to avoid infection. Unfortunately, we need a wide range of means to bring this corona virus to an end and to stay in this situation, so that when restrictions are lifted, then this disease situation will not get worse. Good speeches have also been made on the fact that we do not know today what kind of situation we will be in tomorrow, and that is why this precautionary principle is what the government is following in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u78	Mr President! This has indeed been a good debate, and in the course of this debate the coalition has taken the line of government and the coalition has said that the government has done a good job. This is very good, because if you have had the wrong position and realize that that position is wrong, then it is good to change your opinion. This is vertebrate. Mr Mykkänen said, when he talked about this disease situation — the Constitutional Committee has required that the situation picture should always be clear, that we should know what happened at the moment, for example, with regard to the disease situation — that now the disease situation would be such that 30 per day would be new cases. Well, this was last week's situation. Yesterday there were 51 new cases, and the day before that there were 64 new cases, that is, the disease situation, the current situation picture is this. So if the coalition believes that their position is to relax this opening time for restaurants from what the government is proposing, it will be based on this outdated disease situation, and in that light, too, it is very good that you have now come to the government's point of view. The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been referred to on several occasions here, Mr President, and it is stated that the condition of necessity must be met and that restrictions cannot be maintained in areas where it is not necessary because of an infectious disease situation. So that we know what the picture of the situation will be after we have tourism opening up and restaurants gradually landing into normal activity, we need a little time, and that is why this government line is good. And once again, Mr President, I would like to stress that it is a good thing that the coalition has now taken the line of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u79	Mr President! Indeed, this has been a constructive debate and tells us that, in the big picture, the whole parliamentary line and also the strategy are very coherent. Of course, this little fine-tuning and a little different choices also have to do with it. But I must say, Mr President, that the Finnish line is certainly much more successful than that of our western neighbour. It is quite shocking that there are nearly 4300 deaths as a result of this epidemic, which means more than ten times more than in Finland, where the latest data is 313 deaths. At least in the light of the information at the moment, it seems that the Swedish line has certainly not been responsible. Of course, later on we will be able to assess when we get the final results of this whole epidemic. I will return to this objection to the proposal to extend the opening hours of the restaurant. The objection did not reveal the end date for drinking alcohol, but I now found out that it really would mean that the drinking time would continue until 24 p.m., when the majority of the committee was of the opinion that the drinking time would end at 22 p.m. In my opinion, this is a very significant difference, which is precisely what we are talking about, namely that alcohol serving, that alcohol drinking, the extension of the drinking time would increase the risks that these intervals might begin to be forgotten and that people would, as it were, be more sensitive to each other's skin under these conditions, and that is why I would at the moment feel more responsible about this 10 o'clock limit, that is to say this issue of indulgence. The Minister was not here when I raised the question to you about this recommendation for a mask. We have seen pictures of Europe, how the terraces of the restaurant also sit on the face of masks in several countries. And now I ask you: when will this mask report and any recommendation be completed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u80	Mr President! I understand that alcohol is a difficult issue, and in this Chamber it has always traditionally given rise to a wide range of views on how to deal with it, about substance abuse policy. In fact, I had not intended to raise this issue here, but one of the reasons why we had proposed this later opportunity to keep the restaurants open is precisely that two sets could be arranged, for example. So here we are talking about people sitting at tables, and that is how I understand that the government's will is that the main aim is to continue to ensure that such bar or nightclub-type activities, even if they do happen earlier, would not be possible, but this is what we are talking about here. And when we know that from the point of view of the profitability of restaurants, in fact, alcohol serving is quite important — many want to and also want to offer as an opportunity for people to enjoy, along with their food, for example, suitable wines — that is why we thought that such things as staging, now that only 50 per cent of customers can be introduced, would also make it more profitable for those restaurants. I do not quite understand the effect of the alcohol itself — if there are rules, however, that you have to stay at the tables, that you may be able to get some food — that you will suddenly start flocking in some way if you have come to the restaurant for dinner. I would like to mention here the point which we also proposed, as it were, as a measure of compensation for the fact that at first these conditions for the operation of restaurants in general were significantly restricted, in other words, in practice the doors closed apart from the sale out, and even at the moment we are still going to continue to restrict, although, of course, considerably less so, and a large proportion of the restaurants will certainly now be able to open their doors in some way, even by means of these restrictions. However, profitability would have been improved and further improved by the government’s consideration of the right to sell out slightly stronger alcoholic beverages. And now that these different policies have been discussed, what has been a little surprised here is that generally, when the government has agreed on a policy, it will be defended — perhaps in advance — but then it will usually be defended in this Chamber unanimously and also in the social media. After all, this has been completely different. Even after that, the Greens have declared that if we were to decide, we would do otherwise. Perhaps there is a difference which I myself have been wondering about, but when it has also been suggested, at least from outside the House, that this matter should still be negotiated, I would now ask Minister Kiuru: is it still the case that the conditions for the operation of restaurants are still being considered from the point of view that the right of sale of wines-based beverages could be considered for a limited period of time, while there are still a great deal of restrictions in force?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u81	Irade the Talman! I think there are 11 people in intensive care in Finland today. It can be said that this crisis has gone extremely well on all sides. And it is a good thing that we can now go slowly to relax these restrictions, but precisely cautiously. We do not want the situation to be tightened up again. Of course, it is difficult to draw that line: is it the right time at 10:00, or 10:01, or someone else, and how should we deal with these figures? There is, of course, a need to draw that line, and this is what we are going to do and see if we can relax at some point. But now that there was apparently a little talk of alcohol and I understood that Mr Zyskowicz had raised this issue at the beginning of the week, I would point out that there are quite few of us in this Chamber. Each representative shall correspond to three other representatives. Of course, in a normal situation, you can say that everyone speaks for themselves, but here perhaps more than they usually speak for more people. From that point of view, too, it may not be worth politicizing the fate of an individual force. In normal circumstances, it may be different. It reminded me of the ponies or pronunciations we made during the last season. It was proposed, inter alia, to increase the household allowance, that the government should promote local agreement, that the removal of the needs test should be prepared, that taxation should be shifted from labour taxation to consumption taxation. These are all things that must be supported by the Coalition Party, but of course all things that the Coalition Party unanimously voted down, as well as, of course, the Basic Finns. So this is how it's gonna be. Even though everyone has one vote, even in that situation everyone had to bend to a common agreement. This is what I understand, even though I'm just a second-season rep. I believe that those who have sat here a little longer will understand that. So you shouldn't let them think you don't understand, especially when you really do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u82	Mr President! As I have said before, there is a broad consensus here in Parliament and Finland about this big picture of coronavirus control. The government has done well, the results are good — of course we should add: currently evaluated. We do not know what will happen in the autumn and later. I think it is quite natural that there is a broad consensus here, because hardly any of us in any party programmes have anything to do with masks or testing, tracking, repression — of course not. However, when it was important for Mr Guzenina to say that the coalition has come to the government's line, everyone can check the documents: about a month ago the assembly took the initiative to discuss this exit, spoke of repression even when the Prime Minister said that repression was not possible. Now, in practice, the government is seeking repression even though it does not use this term and everyone understands that it cannot be achieved by all means and that repression cannot be final. We know that this virus is here among us. Mr Kimmo Kiljunen said that the opposition was looking for opportunities to disagree. They're not looking for them. There have been situations in which we have seen the need to press, tighten, encourage the government, and many things have been corrected by the government and are being corrected according to what has been criticised by the opposition. These are the stadiums that have been displayed here, these truckers' meals and so on. Mr Guzenina, I noticed that you have the next floor. When you wondered how in the restaurants where the 75% of customers have reached, eating can be done with masks and listening to music can be done without a lot of noise being raised, and the risk is increasing, could you tell us how all this is going to work in that 50% restaurant? Now there seems to be disagreement, above all, about this regional review. I personally believe that it will not take many weeks, and there is a consensus on that too, namely that this regional review is entirely in order. And it may be that there is already a consensus on it, and the main point of disagreement is whether it would be possible to start now at the beginning of the month or sometimes after the Midsummer. Mr Adlercreutz, I have already said that Mr Harjanne, on Facebook, described our policies just as we know they are working, and we should not let them understand anything but doing, and I think this is good advice for everyone. After the government had decided not to allow the sale of wine, the vice-presidents of the Greens in that social media were sore that we were driving this and we were standing behind it, and then, when we had to vote, we did not stand.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u83	Mr President! The government has always made decisions in time, and when the situation has changed and lived, often day after day, it has been absolutely necessary, just as the Prime Minister has said, that situations have always had to be assessed on the basis of that information, and if Mr Zyskowicz considers this to be a bad line, then let it be his opinion. Representative Zyskowicz here also made a serious joke about these restaurants filling rates. In your opinion, 75% of a full restaurant is almost the same as 50% of a full restaurant, and you do not think that the risk increases if people are closer together. However, even the coalition is in favour of this repressive policy, so how can you explain that a very tight small space, a very small space, would be crowded more than half of what they were allowed to do? For example, it has a significant impact on keeping distances, which Finns have very well integrated. There has also been a lot of talk about the fact that it is in the interests of restaurant entrepreneurs that people experience a sense of security when they go to the restaurant to eat, that they can count on the security intervals there to be such that they do not feel uncomfortable if they cough up and then cough up at the table next to them. That's why these security distances are so important. And that is why this government's line that 50% is now gradually starting to relax these restrictions is quite right. And I will continue to say that it is very good that during this debate the vote has come to the attention of the government, and perhaps now you will vote unreservedly for the government's motion without your objection, when it has already been said here on several occasions that this objection by you does not have such a real basis for its implementation. You, too, could support the government in a spineless way now without going on with this protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u84	Mr President! Coronavirus is a pandemic that no one had been able to prepare for in advance, a new unknown. All of us have had to take these decisions in dark or cloudy weather and try to assess what the best possible decisions are in that moment, and then afterwards it has been considered whether there is a need to correct them in some respects, and that has been the case. If you look internationally, at least so far it seems that Finland's actions have been quite timely and effective when you look at the figures on how we have managed to achieve this in the midst of an epidemic and a pandemic. Of course, that doesn't mean the future. It may be that in the future we will have to take some other steps, but now it seems so. Mr President! If the party, for example in the assembly, has three or four different views from the various representatives, then one of them will always readjust. I am thinking of this harsh criticism when it is said that there are too strict restrictions and should be loosened much more, but it has only been a few weeks since, for example, this The closure of Uusimaa was dismantled and the direction of the Coalition Party became very critical of its dismantling. Even such parables were used that the government is now allowing the virus to spread to the provinces. That's a lot of criticism. Also, the opening of schools: the ranks of the coalition were strongly criticised and it was claimed that the schools are now being turned into viral slingshots. And if we look at these moderate openings, they seem to have been very successful in time. There have not been these intimidations at the time, but there is always someone who has probably thought that schools can be opened and the demolition of Uusimaa can be opened, and now, on the pretext, more lax measures are required, which are in complete contradiction with what the people of the United States have raised even a few weeks ago. I think it is a sensible line that these restrictions should be phased out — because people have confidence that services can be used, dared to use them — and more will be opened if possible, but it may be that at some point we will also have to tighten them up. When much has been discussed here, where do these times come from, for example, then they must be placed somewhere. I guess no one has a crystal ball that can tell if the right time is exactly 21, 22, 23 or 24. We have to put it somewhere at this point, and then we can move on. The second is these sports stadiums. In my view, it is now important that, just as we are about to dismantle this call for domestic tourism and cottages, now that we have seen how this has moved forward, a reasonable line of 500 is in due course,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u85	Mr President! Surely this is so that it is completely impossible, as it were, to determine in advance exactly what is right. I would therefore like to thank Mr Arhinmäki for this excellent speech, especially the end of the fact that more ad hoc consideration could be used here, as restrictions are now being lifted, among other things, with regard to these sports viewers. However, what I think is a little strange is that we should be criticised if we have perhaps a few different priorities. It is a much more serious question if it comes from the government's point of view to say at the same time that there are certain recommendations in force for everyone and, at the same time, it is the other way round, and one Minister calls for another. It is really important that when the government communicates about them — and as a general rule it has succeeded well — that the message is consistent, and that when it is decided that some restrictive measures will be dismantled, as is the case, for example, now that we want to allow more freedom to go to the cottage and travel, communication about it will also be a matter of policy, and it will be done in such a way that the recommendations will first be broken down and then it will be said that, unlike what happened yesterday, you should go now. In this respect, it must be said that, in fact, in the case of restaurants, the differences are reasonably small as to what is the government's line and what we have proposed. I don't think it's easy to say if it's 75 percent or 50 percent. Perhaps, if I were to think about this, I would like to think about it from the point of view of infectivity. For example, when there are concerns about the safety of staff here — and this is a very important aspect — is it reasonable in areas where there is still a risk of infection, for example by means of protective equipment to ensure that the staff are better protected? Another point of view is that it would be more sensible, however, to take care of these infectious risks, for example by means of safety intervals or by means of the size of the space. As I understand it, even the customer places are a little bit like that — as the Minister pointed out — they may be standing places, which is not necessarily uniform when they are placed in such different spaces. And in a restaurant with a lot of standing places, it can be very challenging to get a 50 - percent number of customers safely into confined spaces. In other words, this is what I myself have been calling for, at least here, for us to assume that it is always infectious, that is to say primarily to assess the risk of infection. There should be no so-called political consideration here at the point where restrictions are lifted, but we should consider it from the point of view of the risk of infection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u86	Mr President! There has been talk here about restaurant activities from the point of view that customers would feel as safe as possible, and there have then been various restrictions, and perhaps that's all right. However, I do not like the tone of voice that these customers are a number of patronising units. You must remember that the customer chooses where and how, and would like to choose when to visit the restaurant. It is unnecessary to create a threat that restaurants are somehow unsafe places, because the responsibility is ultimately not here but the customer himself. You have to trust a customer to eat at a restaurant where you feel safe and not eat where you feel it is unsafe. It is the case that a nutritionist is already required to provide customers with the possibility of cleaning hands and maintaining sufficient distance and operating instructions for cleaning hands. That is why restrictions on these times and customer places are quite unreasonable in some provinces. Minister Kiuru’s own province in Satakunta had the previous corona infection more than a month ago. Think of the fact that the entire business activity is being restricted in this way, and the previous infection has been on 29 April, as I have just checked. The validity of restrictions has a significant impact on the operating conditions and livelihoods of companies and workers and on the cohesion of society in these difficult times, and this is particularly important for small restaurants with very small number of customers. In other words, I hope that we are actually moving forward as quickly as possible here and that decisions will be made before Midsummer, so that this issue is not approached in different regions, in the same way as in the whole country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u87	Mr President! Thank you for the good debate here. We've still been working on that convention line.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u90	Mr President! Here are some questions I would be happy to answer. First of all, Mrs Myllykoski made a good point about the safety of this staff, and I would like to say that I think it is a very legitimate question. In these previous debates, when we have had a debate, I myself have raised this theme very little, but instead we have had a good discussion with the MaRa Union about this, that we must also be able to guarantee the safety of the staff, and one of the reasons why we chose this opportunity to pick up from the counter is precisely the reason that comes from the safety of the staff. It has not been very much wondered in this Parliament why we did not have to wait for tables. It could have been one solution, but in this case, from the point of view of the safety of the staff, it was felt that it would be safer for the staff to be behind the pleksi there and thus to protect the staff from being constantly shuttled between the tables if the tables were to be served in this proposal. That is why I am also very confident that restaurants themselves have a great interest in ensuring that they are also given common, well-functioning practices that can be maintained throughout the country. That is why, in this debate, I find the fact that we must insist on a systematic approach from all the restaurants in order to guarantee that safety throughout the country. The idea that some Finnish region in this disease situation would get out of this situation like a dog, that we would be freed from restrictions, but that planning does not apply to all Finnish regions, is not quite the case in this disease situation. That is why we are starting at national level and regionalism is involved as a tool here — both national and regional tools are involved in the particular performance, and I think it is important that it is also observed here. This is a difficult place. I think Mr Multala had a smart conversation about what the proper number of seats is. That is quite true, as you said, and in my earlier speech I did not remember to emphasise it. We have so many different restaurants, there are standing places and there are seating places, and when you make these rules, there can't be too many of them so this thing doesn't get all messed up. These main rules, which have now been chosen, have ensured that there should be an explicit safety distance and a seating position, and in addition to that a 50 % limit has been imposed on the interior so that people do not pack too tightly if, for example, the restaurant’s fire safety guidelines allow a very high number of standing places. It is then certain that safety will be taken into account, and I think it was an important observation in this debate. And then here's the time. Congressman Räsänen did a good job of speculating on that one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u91	In the course of the debate, a proposal for general reasons and five proposals for statements have been put to the vote. The votes will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and proceedings shall be adjourned and the session resumed at 12.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u92	Ladies and gentlemen! It is once again stated today that we are sitting in this Chamber on a sparse basis because of this disease situation and the fact that the parliamentary groups have agreed on the way in which we are in this Chamber. That's why it might look a little empty here, but the delegates are still working today. Let's move on. We shall now proceed to the adjourned sitting at 12.34 p.m. and to the third item on the agenda. In the course of the debate, Ms Laakso Vilhelm, supported by Mr Junnila, has tabled four proposals for general arguments in accordance with protest 1 and Ms Laiho Ben Zyskowicz, supported by protest 2. In addition, sheik Laakso, supported by Vilhelm Junnila, has tabled a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u93	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 12/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u94	Mr President! The proposal proposes to temporarily increase the unemployment benefit component from the current EUR 300 per month to EUR 500 per month and from EUR 279 to EUR 465 over four calendar weeks. These changes will financially support the reception of part-time work and short-term work, not only in the seasonal work of agricultural and horticultural holdings but also in other work. As the temporary derogations also apply to partial employment in which the beneficiary is employed before the proposed change, the increase in the unemployment benefit component constitutes a temporary improvement in unemployment benefit for this group of beneficiaries. The increase in the protection component also applies to the mediation of the earnings of the business, which contributes to supporting those who are employed on a secondary basis and also those who are temporarily receiving labour market support under Section 4c of Chapter 11 of the Unemployment Protection Act. According to the proposal, the mobility allowance may be temporarily paid for full-time work if the average duration of a person's day-to-day work journey at work exceeds two hours instead of the current three-hour period or the person is moved at an equivalent distance due to work. The change does not apply to work-related training. This change also applies not only to seasonal work on agricultural and horticultural farms but also to other employment relationships. Mobility allowance is not granted in business on the basis of employment. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it appropriate that, in an exceptional situation caused by an epidemic of communicable diseases, employment should be encouraged by increasing the protective component, although the possibilities for additional work may be limited for the time being. The Committee considers it important that the impact of the draft law on the labour market in the various sectors be carefully monitored. The committee stresses the temporary nature of regulation. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the use of the mobility grant has been very limited, but the temporary derogation for commuting time proposed in the grant should raise awareness of the grants, which may increase the use of the mobility grant at a later stage. The Committee considers it important that the impact on income, employment and mobility in the pursuit of employment be examined after the end of the temporary change. The Committee also considers it important that the effects of the corona virus epidemic on the adequacy and situation of young people's summer jobs are closely monitored. The committee notes that the government's proposal, like several previous proposals relating to the corona virus epidemic, has been brought before Parliament on an urgent and very timely basis. In view of the urgency of the preparations, it may not be possible to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the impact of the proposals, nor will there be sufficient time for experts and the committee to examine the impact of the proposals, for example from the point of view of different categories of beneficiaries or sectors. The committee considers that the Government should reserve sufficient and reasonable time for the parliamentary procedure of the Government's proposals. In order to facilitate the implementation of the law, the committee proposes to amend the entry into force provision so that it can be applied for an application period between 1 June 1920 and 31 October 1920 for unemployment benefit. According to the committee's proposal, mobility allowance can also be paid in order to clarify implementation as a result of the work that has begun in the course of the law. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u95	Mr President! There is a lot of work on farms and farms, but there are few workers, and some have wondered why Finns do not work on farms. After all, we have had the situation for years that different seasonal jobs have been carried out in agriculture, especially by workers from outside the EU. These workers have done, among other things, planting, gauging and picking. However, the interest rate closed the borders of the countries, and it is good that the government, in this difficult situation, has tried in many ways to alleviate the shortage of agricultural workers. 4500 employees were already granted permission to enter Finland from outside the EU, and this proposal now seeks to encourage Finnish workers to work in fields and farms. It is clear that Finnish farms do not value anything as much as the Finnish workforce and employees are happy to receive when there is a desire to work. With this proposal, the Government will improve the mobility allowance, i.e. the possibility of receiving compensation for long work trips and changes due to work. Secondly, this proposal increases the amount of euro that can be earned gladly on a farm without affecting unemployment benefit. The proposal therefore encourages us to go further away to work in agriculture, and hopefully also encourages the unemployed to take up work. In particular, as Mr Vehvilinen, as chairman of the committee, has rightly pointed out, we must now monitor the impact of these temporary changes on the labour market, among other things, and we can also take this as a positive opportunity, as an experiment on how this increase in the adjusted component of unemployment benefit will affect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u96	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the law on temporary derogations from the Unemployment Protection Act in the wake of the covid-19 epidemic. It is proposed to temporarily increase the protection component of the unemployment benefit mediation, i.e. the proportion of earnings not taken into account in the payment of the adjusted unemployment benefit. It is also intended to increase the mobility allowance to provide an incentive to apply, to go to work even further away. This is a temporary proposal which is due to be in force until the end of October. Its aim is to increase incentives for employment in order to ensure security of supply in exceptional circumstances in critical tasks for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, but also in a more general way in order to encourage the acceptance of work on a temporary basis. In general, raising the protective part can encourage work, but at the same time it is good to be aware that there are well-known problems with the higher protective part, especially with regard to negative incentives that can arise between full-time work and part-time work with the protective part. There is also a certain concern about young people and their employment. If it is thought that today it is very difficult for young people to get summer jobs, and restaurant workers often apply for their jobs through different employers, they make part-time work for more employers, through which they can create the total salary with which they can support themselves, then certain negative elements may be involved. And that is why, as Mr Vehviläinen rightly pointed out, we wrote in this report in committee: ‘The committee considers it important that the impact on income, employment and mobility in the workplace be clarified after the temporary change has ended’. The Committee also considered it very important that the effects of the corona virus epidemic on the adequacy and situation of young people's summer jobs should be closely monitored. The situation of young summer jobs is worrying at the moment, and we should also pay particular attention to the employment of young people, so that they do not have periods of unemployment at an early stage, because it is known to predict later unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u97	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking the committee for this unanimous report. The Left Alliance attaches great importance to increasing the share of protection now. In the future, the increase in the share of protection can also be confirmed as a permanent part of the measures to promote employment. The impact of the use of the protection component on improving employment and livelihoods must also be examined more extensively. It is important for us to find together incentives that do not penalise short-term work and that they are made possible in all kinds of life situations. For example, it is very difficult for single parents to take up shift work because, in the absence of support networks, it can mean, for example, that small schoolchildren stay home alone for the night, and of course this should not happen or be the case. There is therefore a need for a wide range of fair means of employment policy in order to take greater account of people's different life situations and to facilitate the reception of work. Mr President! In the context of the increase in the protection component, it is important to take into account the impact of the legislative amendment on the most low incomes and the most vulnerable, i.e. people and families receiving income support. In families receiving income support, the increase in the component does not increase the disposable income, as the amount of preferential income, i.e. the so-called income support component, is 20% of income and up to a maximum of EUR 150. The amount is personal, i.e. it is made separately from the earned income of each member of the family. Fortunately, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has set up a working group on the overall reform of income support this week and work on social security reform has also begun. In this context, the determination of the preferential income of income support should also be considered. Unfortunately, the amount of preferential income has remained the same for years, even though index increases have been made annually to the basic part of income support. The general development of earned income and higher cost of living are also in favour of a review of the sum. Mr President! It is now time for a new employment and social policy that supports justice and livelihood. We need carrots and incentives instead of stick and punishment. Although it is now a temporary legislative amendment, I believe that in the future too, the increase in the share of protection and the solutions supporting mobility will have their place. For example, a completely unsuccessful active model showed that the stick accomplishes nothing. This crisis made a fair change of direction even more important, and fortunately this government is now implementing it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u98	Mr President! This is a very good proposal and we see that it has also come from the committee unanimously. Indeed, this will facilitate employment, increase the profitability of working by increasing the protection component of unemployment benefit from EUR 300 per month to EUR 500, which is a very significant change, and then make it easier to use the mobility allowance when the period of travel required is reduced to two hours instead of that three hours. It is now important that these changes are also communicated. In particular, we know that the use of this mobility grant, which has already been possible, but on this somewhat stricter condition, has been very limited, and I think that citizens have not even been sufficiently informed about the possibility of such a grant. In other words, in order to make this seasonal work particularly interesting and attractive, for example, on farms and horticultural farms, it is important that sufficient information is also provided on these improvements proposed by the government and approved by Parliament in the future. Well, these are now temporary from 1 June to 31 October. I would therefore hope that, once this deadline has expired, this will be examined and explained to what extent this has increased the incentive and attractiveness of taking up the job. Just as the previous speaker said here, I would hope that such elements could then be more permanent, especially if they increase the acceptance of work. And now that it is hoped that we will soon be able to reform social security, it is important that these experiences be taken into account and possibly then into permanent practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u99	Mr President! This is, therefore, an increase in the protection component of unemployment benefit and an increase in the mobility allowance, which is of course intended to encourage, in particular, the unemployed in this country to find employment in agriculture and also in other sectors. In the spring, the Finns of Peru suggested that people who had been laid off or lost their jobs in agriculture because of the corona epidemic should keep this benefit entirely on top of its wage bill, and the government gave the green light to this at the time, but it is now stuck and has become such a proposal. As has been mentioned in previous speeches, our social security system is quite complex and the fact that one small part of it is being corrected unfortunately does not really help the whole thing. So in this case, when the protective part of unemployment benefit is increased, it really falls from other benefits. This is where Mr Hänninen spoke about income support, but this also applies to housing allowance, i.e. when the gross income to be taken into account in unemployment benefit rises, it usually decreases the benefit from housing allowance. If we really want to encourage low-income people to work in the low-wage sector, then we should certainly focus on both aspects of protection, which I hope will be taken into account in this overall reform of social security. As it is, this proposal seems somewhat apparent, and I too, as Mr Räsänen has mentioned here, would like to see what results have actually been achieved. In the referral debate, Minister Pekonen replied when I spoke about this same issue that the protective part of housing allowance was not changed now because it would have been too challenging for the National Pensions Institute. However, it was not clear to me what the real significance of this reform is, if not done properly. Is there little point in taking such an apparent measure now, with which we can then say that, yes, there have now been incentives for the unemployed in Finland to work there on farms, but then, when it does not happen, perhaps we will need a little more foreigners again. However, what Mr Hänninen raised about this serious trap of incentives, particularly for single parents, is one of the most important points that must be taken into account in the overall reform of social security. Especially when talking about a single parent living in the capital region who has more than one child, the salary with which he should go to work is remarkably high, especially if a person does not have education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u100	Mr President! After a very good, critical speech by Mr Purra, I wanted to speak one more time. I would just like to say briefly here that, of course, this increase in the component of protection is a unanimous report, as can be concluded from this report, and all parties are in the same line that we really urgently need those incentives and incentives now precisely to improve domestic employment, and that is what the government is now responding to. It is true what the representative said, and what Mr Räsänen said in his own speech, that this is not a so-called finished steak, but we still need a lot of measures to improve employment and dismantle these incentives traps and to take even more into account in the forthcoming overall reform of social security for the most vulnerable families, single parents and so on. But I think this is the case now, given this situation and this timetable, yet a very good and welcome change in the law. Even temporaryity is justified by this very fact that at this stage it may be better to do this kind of temporary change, but I personally hope that we will get them permanent, good elements for our employment and support people and citizens' livelihoods.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u101	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 5/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u102	Mr President! The objective of this bill is quite similar to that of the previous one, namely to ensure labour input and labour under these exceptional circumstances, from the point of view of the achievement of the security of supply targets in sectors critical to primary production, particularly agriculture and the horticultural sector. In particular, the aim here is to promote the exploitation of the labour input and skills of the beneficiaries of the abandonment aid so that, in their case, the amount of income earned at work would not appear to have abandoned the right to withdrawal aid until the end of this year. I drew attention to the fact that there are few different deadlines in these proposals. Of course, it is natural for this particular proposal to look at the time 16.3. From now on, even retrospectively, but here the deadline then extends just to the end of the year. The committee in this report also states that these measures, which have been taken up to now, apparently including this measure, are necessary to achieve the security of supply targets, but, given the need for seasonal labour which is known, they are not sufficient, and that is why the committee is calling for further work to be carried out to ensure that these critical sectors are in line with the security of supply targets. And it is true that the berry farms and other horticultural sectors are still concerned about this sufficiency of labour, so more action is now expected from the government to ensure that the harvest is harvested and that the important work is done on the farms there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u103	Mr President! According to my estimate, this government proposal is clearly the most potential one of the government's proposals aimed at mobilising Finnish or Finnish workers in seasonal agricultural work in this difficult situation we are currently in. This assessment is based on the fact that these people have done their life's work in agriculture and are fully familiar with agriculture, both technically, biologically and economically, in other words, they are in a familiar environment. In that sense, the effort to get them into these jobs is healthy, bearing in mind that those on the part of the apostasy subsidy are very often still in good condition and age at a time when they are well able to do this heavy agricultural work. The government has made good efforts. Of course, it is still expected that the entry of non-EU and non-EEA agricultural workers into this country will in practice be allowed without restrictions, as has already been allowed in so many summers, and I look forward to the government making further decisions in this respect. But there is nothing but good to say about this proposal, and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has also acted very quickly in drawing up this report. This is also a welcome additional income when the income limit is no longer available to the beneficiaries of the waiver. So this situation is now only temporary. After all, their withdrawal aid is very modest, on average about EUR 1,000 a month.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u104	Mr President! The decision that has been taken in committee has been made very quickly, and it has been a pleasure, in a way, to be working in committee. The consensus and the spirit of this is precisely that all the stones and stumps must be translated so that we can compensate for this lack of seasonal labour. This in particular now brings the necessary knowledge potential to the farms, because we in the agriculture sector have a very large number of foreign seasonal workers and now that it is being tried to acquire more and more from Finland and especially attract students to summer jobs, then there must be those skilled experts who can then familiarise themselves with these farm jobs. However, it might have been more important for the government to try to find a solution where a laid-off worker could have participated in seasonal work and had a part of the earnings-related daily allowance involved in doing seasonal work. However, when this is a relatively low-paid sector from its collective agreement, about EUR 9 per hour, one might think that a recordsmith welder who earns EUR 20 may not be very active in leaving for seasonal work, when it does not have the incentive to do so on merit. This is the kind of arrangement that should be made. I understand that it is thought that the laid-off person will not be able to commit himself, to work the entire period of seasonal work on the farm, in the horticultural sector, but certainly there are those laid-off and laid-off entrepreneurs who could have committed themselves to the fact that it would have been possible for the person who goes to these seasonal jobs to be there on the basis of the seasonal working time or the agreement on how it has been agreed. We need creativity now, because autumn is, of course, the time when the harvest is being harvested, and we hope that these resources, which have now been available, will have something to fix in the autumn. But I personally see that the committee's report is well-founded and allows for a slight improvement in the seasonal workers' deficit on farms.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u105	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u106	Mr President! In this proposal on adult education benefits, it is proposed to amend the formula for calculating their determination. The aim is to promote the possibility for employees to work simultaneously and study at adult education centre. This proposal is a worthy, unanimous one and is based on an initiative taken unanimously by the social partners' organisations, which is also a good thing. But, Mr President, I would just like to say that this whole proposal does tell us how complex we have, on the one hand, and how we still have quite significant thresholds and obstacles to reconciling work and study in different life situations, for example, from the point of view of the citizen, but a good step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u107	Mr President! Mr Räsänen pointed out the central point I would like to make here, and that is that this is a joint proposal from the social partners. This again shows how effective it is: when we work together in the social partners, we come up with good proposals, which will be easy to carry to the finish line in a three-way fashion. This treaty-based system, which prevails in Finland, has demonstrated its strength during this particular parliamentary term in how we can also work together on this corona epidemic. This is a working model. I would just like to take this opportunity to emphasise that this is the way in which we can make rapid decisions in Finland. Mrs Räsänen rightly said that we should find so-called shortcuts — not correct anything, but we should have a more direct, less bureaucratic system for many aspects of support measures. There has also been a debate in this Chamber about the fact that, in this situation, now in this exceptional situation, it might have been good for students to extend the earnings limit in order to allow it to work duty-free and perhaps make it more attractive to take part in the seasonal work of agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-29-ps-83.u108	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented in order of number 8. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 9/2020, the decision will be taken at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the legislative proposals.
