ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u1	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. After the Minister's presentation, the debate will take place. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the debate and the item will be suspended and resumed at the second plenary session today. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u2	Mr President! The Government's proposal for legislation amending the legislation on energy taxation mainly includes the package of the energy tax reform agreed in the Government Programme. The most important change in this as a whole is the reduction in the electricity tax on industry from 0.69 cents to a minimum EU level of 0.05 cents per kilowatt hour. This applies to less than ten thousand companies. This action goes beyond the change agreed in the Government Programme to reduce the electricity tax on industry towards the minimum level allowed by the EU. In this way, the Government wants to help ensure the competitiveness of industry in a changed situation and its operating conditions in Finland. It is proposed to phase out the refund of the energy tax on fuels to energy-intensive companies between 21 and 24. For 25 years, companies would no longer be eligible for a refund. The abolition of the refund would be carried out in such a way that the energy taxation of companies facing the increase in the net tax burden would only increase more strongly towards the end of the transitional period. In other words, this entity, when these two projects are linked together, has not only a revitalizing purpose in this context, a clearly increasing competitiveness of exports, but when it comes to making this arrangement, on the one hand, with the reduction of the electricity tax and, on the other hand, with the gradual reduction of the refund system for the use of fossil fuels, this is clearly a policy package that encourages the economic industry to switch to electricity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u5	Thank you for the introduction. — I now call on those representatives who wish to make a reply, to stand up and press the V button from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u6	Mr President! First of all, warm thanks to the government for this good proposal. It can be said that the actions of the Marin government are guided by justice, the future in a clean climate and environment, and by sustainable economy and employment. This proposal is also in line with these objectives. This proposal will reform the taxation of energy and transport, while at the same time supporting the renewal of companies, so that Finnish companies succeed in reducing emissions. These decisions will also support businesses next year with up to hundreds of millions of euros. Among other things, the electricity tax on industry will fall to the minimum level in the EU. At the same time, the government has taken into account the ability of citizens to pay for these objectives. It supports people who want to switch from oil to a cheaper, low-emission form of energy. Currently, among other things, a search is ongoing:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u7	Mr President! I have to thank you when it's time to thank you. This lowering of the second category of electricity tax to the EU minimum is certainly a measure that everyone here is in favour of, I believe. It will accelerate the electrification of society and industry while at the same time improving competitiveness. On the other hand, there are probably different opinions about this tax evasion of heating fuels. Personally, I think it is very important that, now that the government has finally set targets, for example, for the cessation of peat burning or at least for speeding it up, concrete measures are also being taken. I would have asked: now that the EU is funding such major energy transitions from a just transition fund and now that the government seems to have a plan to halve the energy use of peat at least, is there now a plan for how to get support from the EU for this transition for those entrepreneurs who are left without work because of the transition?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u8	Mr President! Indeed, the fall in the tax on electricity is a good thing, which is what almost everyone in this Chamber has demanded and wanted, with just a few exceptions — there have been some gravel noises coming from the left side. Yes, this is our common will, and thank you for investing in this at the moment. Of course, this taxation of peat and all other tax collection does not help this competitiveness in any way, but rather kills our competitiveness. It is very nice to say here how companies will now be able to finance and invest in the so-called greener technology, but the problem is out there, which we do not necessarily realise: there are a lot of companies that are currently not getting funding. The only way is for them to do these things if they possibly receive state aid for them, but that is the only problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u9	Mr President! I agree with the thanks that have been expressed here. It is important that the electricity tax on industry should be reduced to the EU minimum and, at the same time, to mining, professional glasshouse production and also to agriculture, which is subject to the old procedure of restoring that difference between categories I and II of electricity taxes. That is a good solution for agriculture. It is also important that the increase in the excise duty on light fuel oil should be subject to a tax on energy content, since it is legally necessary to return it to agriculture. The CO2 tax would not have been returned, so agriculture does not suffer from an increase in costs in this case either. The most difficult position is peat, which is likely to reduce its energy use by up to 70% in five years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u10	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Vanhanen, Minister for Finance and the Government for their excellent presentation, which has already been praised. Our wealth so far has been so much built on the burning of fossil energy, and now we have to move on to non-combustible time — it's happening here, it's happening in the world. And this is, in fact, one important step in the direction of reducing the taxation of electricity and improving competitiveness in relation to the different types of unsustainable combustion — for which I would like to thank you very much. My guess is that this will actually bring investment to such an extent that the price tag that this will become, which, in principle, has been collated with that tax refund will be reduced. This, of course, highlights the fact that we need a lot more clean zero-emission electricity, and this is an important issue that must then be reflected in the Government's climate and energy strategy work. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u11	Mr President! Overall, the proposal is leading us towards a carbon-neutral welfare state. A significant reduction in industrial electricity tax to the EU minimum level is a significant hand-out for Finnish industry, as has been said here. At the same time, it also supports the electrification of industry and supports the transition away from combustion technologies. Mr President! It is important that the budget debate set out new measures to move forward towards peat-free energy production. At the same time, however, it is important to take account of the social impact of decisions, and we need to find and find ways to support peat entrepreneurs and workers and energy companies using peat in the coming years and decades when it is necessary to phase out the use of peat energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u12	Irade the Talman! This is a good example of how both to promote the competitiveness of companies and to take us towards our climate objectives. When it is sometimes said that these are contradictory to each other, it is worth noting that, here, for example, both good objectives are being achieved, and that is one of the reasons why industry too has been behind this change and I am sure to thank the government for this. This also has a job-creating effect. When Sweden lowered the electricity tax on industry, as I recall in the early part of this millennium, it immediately gave them a great competitive advantage when big data center giants were building their projects. Through it, there is reason to hope that these investments will now increasingly come to Finland as well, and through it this fall in the electricity tax can have a very large employment impact and an increase in investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u13	Mr President! The reduction in the electricity tax on industry contained in this proposal is to be welcomed; it strengthens Finland's competitiveness. At the same time, we must, of course, ensure that we continue to have electricity for all needs. Unfortunately, the tightening of heating fuels is particularly a factor in heating costs and increases the housing costs of many Finns. Of this tax evasion of EUR 105 million, 69 million are targeted at heating homes. There are 150,000 oil-heated detached houses in Finland, a large proportion of which are located in rural areas. Here, then, the inhabitants of sparsely populated areas are being paid for by climate policy, and this is contrary to what is said about the social fairness of climate action.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u14	Mr President! For several years the industry has been asking for a tax reduction, and now that is what this government is going to do. Thank you, Minister, for your presentation! This point of peat is, of course, in such a way that it is now necessary to take into account the producers of peat and those who still use peat in combustion equipment that it is not unreasonable. And I think that this floor model is a very good starting point for how the peat side can be supported and not, in that way, unduly increased this cost for them in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u15	Mr President! This government proposal is, you might say, a multi-point missile. Firstly, the cost of industry alone will be calculated by means of this solution for next year's 200 million, all the other 300 million in total. This is the right cyclical policy measure. At the same time, this is an environmental act: this reduction in the electricity tax will significantly increase the profitability of non-combustible forms of heating — for example, heating in cities that need to be disposed of before long. There's been a lot of discussion about this turf. Last autumn, the Coalition Party was quite critical of the government's failure to completely eliminate tax subsidies for peat. Now, in this performance, it will remain the same. When a government is always required
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u16	Mr President! Mr Lindtman has just spoken of a multi-point missile, but it can be said that this missile will hit the elderly. Congressman Räsänen was just talking about home heating. It's gonna hit the old people really hard. The household allowance was calculated. It's gonna hit a lot of old people who've been using it to clean up. Now the situation in the municipalities is what it is. Many municipalities are facing an increase in property tax, which strikes the elderly. So this multi-point missile is a very bad thing for a lot of old people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u17	Mr President! In my opinion, the government has not yet produced an exact model for this floor price model, but anything that supports the gradual phasing out of peat's energy combustion is good for me and for the Assembly. A year ago, of course, the situation was different in that we were not living in the middle of a corona pandemic, and now many entrepreneurs are in more trouble than before. However, it is important that the government now has a plan to stop burning peat energy, because without it, I understand that it is also impossible to obtain support from the EU from a fair transition fund. And as Mr Lindtman well knows, the energy company in our home town Vantaa is an excellent example of how, when you work very long-term for fossil-free energy production and electricity generation, it can also be achieved in the 2020s. There, in 26 C.E., they plan to be a fossil-free energy plant.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u18	Mr President! A fall in the tax rate for industry is a good thing. Of course, it will increase economic intensity and production potential. As for the tax increase in peat, it is indeed one of the most rash decisions ever made in this house, because its multiplier effects will be terrible. I am quite sure that now that the tax rate on peat rose and it made the burning of trunkwood very profitable — by the way, next winter it will burn wood as much as fibrewood in boilers — that is hardly what anyone wants, even though the Government Programme says otherwise. I am very saddened about it, but the big problem is that in the near future the heat companies have already been transferred to foreign ownership, that is to say, when the domestic energy raw material is resettled, that is what foreign investment funds are attacking, buying out power plants, and this road is such a road — we have been avoiding it, these natural monopolies should not be sold — and such a tragedy, the size of which we do not yet know, I can only imagine for myself. As regards this fund, the JTF, the fair transition to the Fund,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u19	Mr President! On a global scale, the government has quite exceptional goals to be carbon neutral in 35 C.E., and this whole is really important in this climate work. The law before us is one part of this whole, which is well-managed and diverse. It is worth remembering that in total almost half a billion euros have been cut back on harmful subsidies at the same time as the electricity tax is being reduced and so on. Much has been said about the elderly and the owners of detached houses — how they suffer when the price of oil heating rises. It is worth remembering that, at the same time, the government also strongly supports the abandonment of oil heating. More than EUR 100 million will be allocated to this use, and it will be a big support when this work is carried forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u20	Mr President! When our home town of Vantaa was raised here for example, I can’t help remembering how a few years ago, when I suggested that Vantaa Energy would give up peat, it was found that it was absolutely impossible to do this. It's in black and white. When Multala's head is spinning there: so quickly, when there is political will, it is also possible to do good deeds, and that is a great thing. For us on the left, it is very important to ensure that all decisions also take account of their social impact. At the same time as ensuring that the energy use of peat is halved, entrepreneurs and workers in peat areas must be supported. It would be worth spending EU money on this, as Mr Multala also said. We are also committed to finding the necessary measures in other sectors in order to achieve these Government climate objectives. But further preparation is also important. We have a road map of energy taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u21	I will give you three more answers, then Minister Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u22	Mr President! This raised the issue of what these energy tax decisions affect low income families, especially in terms of housing costs. It's true they do. But they also affect the future that we all have. And in order to be proportionate to these figures, it should be noted that next year, for example, heating costs will rise by around EUR 6 per month in oil-heated houses and district-heated houses by around EUR 4 per month and in apartment buildings by EUR 18 per month. So it's about increases, but it's relatively small. I do not like to recall the old ones, but if we go into the decisions of the previous parliamentary term, then, for example, the freezing of pension indices and the increases made at that time were of much greater importance than this whole, but despite the fact that these decisions will be taken in the future, we will have to think about how they will be repeated and how they will be repeated, even in the case of small sums.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u23	President! Sometimes you have to accept a little evil so you can jump forward quickly later. What Mr Saramo was going to — and he is still sitting there — pointed out was that he was going to replace our coal plant and build a bio-power plant inside the old plant, which currently uses about 10% of the peat. However, the combustion results have now been so good that even the tough targets set by the City of Vantaa have tightened the energy company so that peat can be abandoned more quickly, and of course we will not object to that, quite the contrary. We are very pleased about this, both at the meeting and certainly at all the vantagers who have been working together to achieve this objective. That initiative was then about the fact that this replacement investment could not have been made at all at the time, or at least it would have been significantly delayed and the abandonment of coal would have slowed down.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u24	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Saramo has just said that when decisions of this kind are taken, they can have an impact. These decisions have indeed been influenced. Now we're going to hit logwood, good wood, to burn because you can't put peat in it. This must have been your goal, even if I didn't believe it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u25	Thank you. — Minister Vanhanen, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u26	Mr President! With regard to this fair transition fund, the government agreed in this context that the government would use part of the fair transition from the fund to support investments to compensate peat. In addition, the same fund will support the adaptation of economically deprived peat entrepreneurs and workers and the wide diversification of economic activities in the target regions. This is not yet the precise plan, nor is it the extent to which JTF is being used for this purpose, but it is clear that one of the objectives of the Union's entire recovery package is to curb climate change and coal areas, to reduce the disadvantages in peat areas and, in turn, to target funding to ensure that these areas are managed and replaced. Mr Räsänen referred to this as an increase in the fuel oil bill for detached houses. Yes, the tax will rise by about a tenth, but the price of the whole fuel oil will not come from the tax, which is, as Mr Filatov said, of course, the rise in the final bill will be much more modest. But with regard to the use of fuel oil in detached houses, the government does... Our own budget — and I dare say that this recovery package too — will be used to replace oil boilers. And the best outcome is that the monthly heating bill is falling, and one can say that the concern about the functioning and maintenance of the heating system is greatly reduced. Furthermore, the change is in line with what everyone is trying to achieve: reducing the disadvantages. Finally, for Mr Järvinen, the term ‘harmful aid’ is used. In the case of the use of electricity,it may be a ‘harmful’ In other words, I would call for a gradual reduction in the use of this concept of tax subsidies, because it is calculated: it compares to a certain standard tax level, and it is entirely, you can say, a political solution as to what the standard tax level is. So I consider this concept of tax subsidies somewhat unintelligent, or rather unintelligent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u27	Thank you. — And then we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u28	Mr President! The tax on fuels for heating, power plant or machinery, i.e. light and heavy fuel oil, biofuel oil, LPG, coal and natural gas, would be increased by applying an increase to the energy content tax. The tax on category II electricity would be reduced from 0.69 cents to a minimum EU tax level of 0.05 cents per kilowatt hour from the beginning of 2021. The reduction in category II of electricity taxes and the abolition of the tax refund for energy-intensive companies would benefit industrial enterprises in category II of electricity taxes which have not been subject to the tax refund of energy-intensive companies, as well as companies for which the refund of energy-intensive companies has been low or has been heavily directed towards electricity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u29	Mr President! As Mr Koponen said just now, how well Lindtman's multi-point missile hits, it really does hit farmers, machine entrepreneurs and elderly people living in remote areas, whose fuel oil-heated houses are not actually enough to secure even these renovations. Indeed, not many people are able to do that renovation because there is no way they can get funding for it, because the value of the house is virtually zero, according to the financial institutions. Then do some renovations. I can't help but wonder if this is where we want to pick up the pieces from the old people before the retriever comes, or what they're looking for, because in reality... When we were just talking about how little it seemed to affect, what does it really matter if it stops heating? No, it does not, because it goes without saying that it only ends when the tax increase is so drastic that it will force a person to make those changes. But if people cannot afford to make those changes, they will not do them, especially when the amount is small. That just means we're taking the money. I do not remember who said it, but was there any talk of 65 million, or what was counted as coming out of these? That money will simply be taken away from the group, but nothing will change in that regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u30	Mr President! This tax reduction is, of course, aimed at getting more energy-intensive companies to invest in Finland, and this is a good starting point in this situation. Changes in the tax on electricity category II and the refund of energy taxes would apply not only to industry but also to mining and professional greenhouses. The tax on electricity used in other agriculture would also be reduced, but this would be done as is currently the case by refunding an annual amount corresponding to the difference between agricultural tax categories I and II. The tax reduction in category II of electricity tax would also apply to electricity consumed in a machine room with a total power of more than 5 MW, i.e. very intensive energy-requiring equipment. After all, these are the works halls we have in Kajaani today, one of the largest computers in Europe, which uses energy significantly. Of course, there is an attempt to obtain these investments in Finland as far as possible, and here is one very good proposal. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u31	Mr President! I would like to thank the government for finally lowering the electricity tax category II to the EU minimum. It is an important hand-out for Finnish industry, it improves competitiveness, as has been shown in this debate, and it also enables a shift towards cleaner industry through electrification. It is very important that heat pumps and data centers producing heat are also transferred to the district heating network in the electricity tax category II. This enables cleaner district heat to be produced more competitively in Finland. After all, emissions from district heat in Finland are such low-hanging fruit, they compare with emissions from private car use, and if these emissions from district heat production can be eliminated in a cost-effective and rational way, it is a question of emission reductions that do not require changes in Finnish lifestyles and radical changes in their own lives. However, what is essential here is that there really is an efficient, cost-effective technology on the market that can cut emissions from district heat production. I would like to highlight small nuclear power, which, fortunately, has finally begun its development in Finland, because commercial technologies are already emerging in the world in this regard. In the United States, a federal type-approval has been granted to the first such small reactor. Hopefully this work will also progress in Finland and the government will also find funding for this VTT-led project, and I strongly appeal to this government. Furthermore, the regulation of nuclear energy needs to be updated so that the development of small nuclear power does not stop due to regulation. At present, the regulation of these large nuclear power plants would also apply to these small nuclear power plants, including Parliament's decision in principle. In other words, every small reactor such as the SMR that could produce district heat in the district heating network would have to be blessed here by a political decision of the Parliament. Hopefully, in this respect, the government's work will go ahead and the nuclear energy law and the sub-regulation will be brought into play so that it does not act as a barrier to commercial technologies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u32	Mr President! I agree with Mr Vestman’s good views on nuclear energy — they may go more to the site of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. After all, at the end of the summer there came a good report on this subject, which will provide a basis for legislative reform, and hopefully it will also proceed quickly and quickly. Let me pick up a little bit on that point raised in the debate. Unfortunately, Mr Hoskonen has left, but his concern about burning wood and draining the ownership of heat companies abroad is quite justified. It is also essential to ensure that it is not replaced by wood, because it is simply not enough wood, and it is precisely electrification and non-combustible solutions that are the right solution. And as far as these district heating companies are concerned, it would be important to help these small energy companies scale good solutions, for example, through various kinds of development pools or similar. That if we develop somewhere, somewhere we pilot a good solution, whether it is a small nuclear power plant or a mid-deep hole in the ground or something like that, it would be used as quickly as possible by others. And the second concern that has arisen here is then, in a way, the social impact on this type of tax increase. It is also very important to monitor this and see if there is any further need for additional instruments to help people make these investments. It is therefore, quite rightly, an investment, which in fact is often a cleaner solution, and in the long run it is also cheaper. And especially if we calculate any outsourcing effects that various carbon-intensive forms of energy have, the advantage of our society as a whole, all of us, is that, for example, that oil is being replaced. Here, too, is the fact that it is largely imported. As an old Vantalainen, some comment should be made on this raised by Mr Multala and Mr Saramo. I don't think it's entirely fossil-free from Vantaa's heat either, because I understand that the incineration of waste is a very significant part of it, and it actually burns a lot of plastic. In addition, there is another major component in decarbonisation and depollution of peat is a large bioplant, a bioinvestment. And I'm not saying it's wrong, Vantaa can do this, but it's awfully important to understand that these solutions are not scalable. We can't copy them everywhere else. There is simply not enough wood, and there is not enough waste either, because we want to do less. So we really need new solutions. Here I would like to highlight the City of Helsinki’s Helsinki Energy Challenge, where 252 teams signed up with different ideas about how the City of Helsinki
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u33	Mr President! The support measures promised by the government and already in place to abandon oil heating are good and worthwhile, but when a large proportion of the owners of oil heating houses are elderly people, it may be asked whether they are all able to go into the process of going into these changes. Mr Hoskonen made a strong speech, also as chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the tightening of the taxation of peat, and I hope that the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, would comment on these concerns raised by Mr Hoskonen. The rapid phasing-out of the use of peat will, in practice, threaten to lead to more coal and oil being used in heat production in the future, which will then run counter to the goals that have been beautifully set out here. The burning of wood in energy production will also increase, which is even worse from an environmental point of view. I therefore hope that these concerns will also be taken seriously in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u34	Irade the Talman! Whenever we go to change any taxation, now in this case fuel, it will, of course, have consequences in many ways, and this proposal will also have social consequences, just as Mr Laakso and Mr Saramo pointed out. That is why it is good that people are also supported by this change. Above all, this will have a big impact on our companies. This applies to some 10,000 industrial enterprises, some 30,000 agricultural enterprises. It is a great relief to them in a rather challenging situation. From this bigger change: When a decision was made last season to give up coal, it was not easy, it was strongly opposed, even considered impossible at this time. Of course, the same debate is now taking place around peat, which is also difficult, and we are talking about security of supply and self-sufficiency. In both of these cases, we must remember how to replace these fuels. When the district heating network is made carbon-free, they are largely based on electricity. It is about heat pumps, it may be about resistance — it may be about small nuclear power plants, just as Mr Vestman said, in the longer term. These are also supply-proof energy sources, especially heat pumps and resistors. In other words, from that point of view, I do not see the security of supply aspect of the peat discharge either, although, of course, it is a question of industrial investment, the age of which may now be slightly longer than what would be necessary. How, then, can this change be made? The tax level is now being addressed. In accordance with the Government Programme, heat pumps of industrial scale should be transferred to this same lower tax category. It would also be advisable to add electrical resistors to the same set. When we have zero-emission energy, even if wind power, where the variable cost is zero, should therefore perhaps not be eroded by any heating sources connected to electricity. I am aware that this is not the Ministry of Finance's business, but if Minister Lintilä were here, I would ask him whether, in addition to the pumps, electrical resistors could also be included in this category in order to facilitate this transition.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u35	Mr President! After all, this work continues in such a way that heat pumps, for example, do not belong to or do not recognise the Energy Tax Directive, and yet we will be seeking proposals in the autumn that we should also be able to make a decision on reducing the electricity tax on heat pumps and power stations. Peat dismantling: Even before this decision, the industry's own assessment has been that the price of emission allowances largely controls this reduction in peat use, and it has been thought that peat's energy use will be clearly halved before the 30s. I think that we will have to look for replacement energy sources on a large scale. Where there is the possibility of using heat from deep wells or waste heat from nearby industrial plants, various heat pump solutions, these will be used. But it is also realism that in part of the country, especially in the case of smaller plants, the use of different biomass, energy wood will certainly be part of this solution. We ourselves can use more energy wood and it is not necessarily detrimental for the good management of forests that there is a healthy demand for energy wood. But the future of district heat is part of this Finnish energy policy — and the removal of coal, the removal of peat. I do not believe that oil will be used in the production of district heat in the future either. These require a wide range of options, and fortunately there are many of them. They call for their own transitional period, during which this transition will also make economic sense. I'm sure the producers in the homesteads are... I think that Mr Laakso or someone quite rightly said that some of these houses are of such low value that it is difficult to get credit for them anymore and it makes no sense for the owner to invest in them. But on the other hand, the government has also thought that to help the prices of these declining detached houses, too, the reform of heating systems may also have an impact on the development of the value of this housing stock. And hopefully, we would find companies that would make it their business to sell heat to detached houses, take over the entire investment and its financing, and then collect only the monthly heat bill from customers, which would be lower than the previous oil bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u36	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The debate and discussion will continue at today's second plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u37	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. After the Minister's presentation, the debate will take place. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the debate and the item will be suspended and resumed at the second plenary session today. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda will be moved to the next item.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u38	Mr President! If the present proposal was about a package with clear broader social objectives towards a more carbon-free society, then this proposal is about a clean distribution of money. The State is giving up tax revenue for the benefit of the beneficiaries of Veikkaus, hundreds and hundreds of companies. This applies therefore to the need for compensation as a result of the reduction in the pool profit. Veikkaus Oy’s revenue is, among other things, becoming significantly lower due to the reduction of automatics, mandatory authentication and increased competition due to international gaming offers. The declining performance is reflected directly in the operating conditions of beneficiary bodies dependent on income, which in many sectors have otherwise deteriorated due to the corona epidemic. The proposal proposes a temporary amendment of the lottery tax law to reduce the tax rate applicable to exclusive lotteries from 12% to 5.5%. The measure would finance an amount of EUR 80 million in compensation of a total of EUR 347 million to ensure a level of funding equivalent to 2019 for the beneficiaries of the proceeds of Veikkaus Oy’s gambling business. The Act is intended to enter into force at the beginning of January and to be in force until the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u39	Thank you. — I now call on those representatives who wish to make a reply, to stand up and press the V button from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u40	Mr President! Once again, thank you to the government. The problem of interest rates has now been very hard on the organisations, and it must be said that the state has now contributed to the rescue of the organisations. Funding through the fall in gambling revenues has created uncertainty in the field, and we have probably all been contacted. The enormous concern that exists among the organisations in the field has now been reacted to. That is why I am very pleased with this proposal, but, as has been said here, this cannot be a permanent solution, which means that this compensation cannot be implemented in the future. I would now like to ask the Minister for Finance: have you discussed it or have you considered how the funding of the organisations will be implemented in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u41	Mr President! The third sector has traditionally meant voluntary activities, activities financed by membership fees and donations. It would now appear that the third sector is being pushed into the public sector, which it has also been through this STEA funding. There are a lot of good organisations there, but there are a lot of things in this funding that I do not think are necessarily part of public funding. I myself would think that it would probably be worth doing some sort of analysis of where this money is going and how effective it is. I would assume that in the future, taxpayers will not want to pay higher taxes on sheltered jobs, their maintenance, not to mention a non-profit-making, let alone statutory, project hum. And if these organizations
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u42	Mr President! This is a good place to go. What is at issue here is that, now that the interest rate is making it difficult for the profits and the activities financed by them to fall, the way in which not only the funding of these organisations can be secured, but also the funding of sports and sports, which was quite legitimately raised in this previous speech — Mr Kiljunen told us about the important work of the organisations — and also the funding of sports and sports. This comes, in practice, to 150 million, almost all of the lottery profits, and there are also statutory tasks, of course they are very loosely regulated. For example, the central government shares of municipalities in the promotion of physical activity and the state grants for sports location construction continue to be financed from betting profit funds. Would these items not at least be those that should be transferred to the normal budget funding side?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u43	Mr President! As has been said here, this amendment to the draft law on lottery taxes is indeed motivated by the decreasing performance of Veikkaus. I would, of course, like to express my great thanks for the fact that the government compensates for the losses that this proposal is, therefore, part of. Yes, sports, cultural, scientific, artistic, youth and social services organisations are doing vital work in Finnish society, and since Veikkaus is very strongly linked to the Finnish welfare system in a very central way, I would like to ask how best to ensure the functioning of Finnish civil society and organisations. Is it intended to strengthen the monopoly position of, for example, Mr Veikkaus, or whether:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u44	Mr President! There is a common will that the assistance of the organisations should be provided with long-term budgetary resources. However, when we talk about the EUR 1 billion, it is clear that it will require work and a wide range of complications and translations before it succeeds. As the profits of Veikkaus have been reduced this year, not only with the reduction of interest but also with the reduction of gambling machines, but also with the increase in gambling, this bill on reducing the tax rate to 5.5 next year will be necessary, but when we look at the future, this will not help the organisations and their funding in the longer term, and it would therefore be important to quickly implement the Government Programme's record of how we can secure the channeling monopoly of Veikkaus Oy in the future, so that the funding of the organisations will also be secured.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u45	Mr President! I believe that the tax rate could be permanently reduced. It is absolutely excellent that this government has finally taken on the risks of gambling properly, and at a time when, especially from that side of the RAY, these slot machines, which are close to the cashiers of the stores, have only increased their income year after year, and should not even seek to return, but will continue to be less than they are today. I think that's a good thing. This funding must be transferred to the budget over a longer period. In fact, especially during the corona crisis, this work by social and health organisations, youth organisations, is invaluable in considering how many people have needed different kinds of help, different peer support and different helpline phones,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u46	Mr President! Pursuant to the Åland Act of Self-Government, lottery legislation falls within the jurisdiction of the Åland Islands, but the taxation of lottery operations falls within the jurisdiction of the Kingdom. The profits of Pafi in Åland are used for activities of general interest in Åland. In 2019, the net accumulation of lottery tax, EUR 221 million, Veikkaus Oy's share was 93.4 per cent and Pafi's share was 5.6 per cent. The lottery tax paid by Pafi decreased by more than EUR 6.5 million if it is assumed that it will be taxed without change in 2019 by EUR 12.4 million. If the lottery tax paid by Pafi were reduced, it would also decrease to the province of Åland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u47	Mr President! This bill is for a limited period of time, meaning that it will only be valid for next year. Even if now we can get rid of the corona epidemic completely in the coming year, it should be noted that these many others However, the factors that reduce the yield of the bet remain. In fact, even in this government's proposal, the only things that vaccinate the proceeds of Veikkaus are measures to combat these gambling disadvantages and, of course, this increase in competition, and I think that in order to safeguard the activities of important associations and organisations, this budget funding should be:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u48	Mr President! The government announced well in the spring that it intends to fully compensate the beneficiaries of Veikkaus for the money that has not been played with the interest rate — almost three and a half hundred million. For example, when low incomes, especially in socio-economically weaker residential areas, were released because of the interest rate, so that they could not hack their money into coin machines in the supermarkets, The benefit of the bet is not allowed to be influenced. As has already been said on many occasions, there is a lot of useful activity to be paid for by Mr Veikkaus's money, but it is equally clear that there are support lines of a higher class that do not need anything. The financial routes between these low-income organisations that are addicted to games and those that are useless to our society should be looked at at at the moment when this is the case and not maintain the bubble any more. It would be a good time for an epidemic to intervene.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u49	Mr President! It makes me want to ask right away what are the vain associations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u50	Mr President! After all, the fall in gambling returns was a fact even before the corona. As the Finns of Finland have already demanded in the Chamber, all the organisations receiving money and their impact should now be carefully investigated and investigated and eliminated. This would make it even more efficient and effective to target our small betting incomes and our common tax resources. The only problem here is that the government has no desire at all to investigate what kind of organizations we can find here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u51	Mr President! There are clear criteria for which organisations to give the money. Of course, this is a temporary solution and, in a way, a rescue program for 2021, and that is good, but as everyone in this room has asked, how will this be done in the future? Personally, I do not believe that this will be entirely, entirely from the state budget in the future; it will be necessary to find ways of doing this with taxation and with Veikkaus. Both the Finnish organisation field, sport, sports and culture, have a large share of the funding base, and that is why this debate is now important and so that we can overcome this corona. For Finnish civil society, the role of these organisations is only extremely important in terms of youth work, sport, culture, physical activity and then here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u52	Mr President! Indeed, the lottery tax is now being reduced as part of this big overall compensation that will have to be made from the fall in the yield of the bet, so that we can get our organisations back on track next year. As has been said here, Finnish society is built very much, in many sectors, the activities of organisations and organisations are essential to our well-being, and certainly no one in this Chamber disputes that. But it is clear that we will all be faced with major challenges in terms of how this continuation and the activities of the organisations will be financed, and that is what this is all about for next year. We're about to change the lottery law, and that's good. If we are talking about challenges, then of course the challenge behind it is that we all recognise the important role played by the organisations, but then there are the problems of the game in the second quarter, and it is not appropriate to ignore them at all. Fortunately, Veikkaus has already taken major responsibility measures. This is the right way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u53	Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u54	Mr President! It is a matter of great concern to the NGOs in what way. In the future, we will be able to secure support through the bet, even in the order of magnitude we are in. Most of the solutions now made are based on support through the spending limits, i.e. through the budget, and then part comes through this amendment of the tax law. We were able to clear up space for this amount of aid in the framework of next year, but there is no equivalent possibility in the same amount of time from then on. Society is in a great hurry to find viable solutions next year to secure this funding for the future. The government itself is in the process of being prepared, you can say, many of the solutions that aim to secure the ability of Veikkaus to raise revenue in the future, that is perhaps the most important thing here. But in some way I would make it known to the organisations that in the future such an amount will automatically not be available in its entirety. The profits of recent years, before this collapse took place, really reached a very high historically high level, and when we look at international comparisons, I am afraid that the trend that has now begun to decline will continue. This international competition is quite fierce, and one of the measures we have is to try to make it more difficult for funds to be breached by the monopoly. It's an important part of this. It was good to hear that quite a few have [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u55	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u56	Mr President! When we say that lottery law is the legislative power of the Åland Islands under the Åland Act of Self-Government, the taxation of lotteries is, however, the legislative power of the Kingdom. Article 49 of the Self-Government Act The amount of the lottery taxes paid in Åland is refunded annually to the Åland Islands through state resources. In this context, it is important to mention that Paf is a state-owned company like Veikkaus. It is registered in Mariehamn in Åland, it pays its taxes to Finland, and its profits are used for activities of general interest. The only difference is that Pafi's profits will be used for activities of general interest in Åland and will support sport, culture and social activities, as well as Veikkaus' profits in Mainland Finland. Correspondingly, this type of activity is not financed from the profits of Veikkaus in Åland, as in mainland Finland. Since there are hardly any private foundations or funds in Åland that support activities of general interest, Pafi's profits are very important for the third sector of Åland. The existence of Pafi is therefore a question of fate for the entire third sector of Åland and indirectly for the whole of Åland. Paf also employs about two hundred to 250 people in Åland and is therefore a very important employer. That is why this bill is also of great importance to Åland and Ålandese Pafi. Mr President! According to Article 4(1) of the lottery tax Act, the lottery tax for the exclusive execution of the lotteries represents 12% of the proceeds. Income is the difference between the total amount of money invested and the profits paid to players. In 2019, the net accumulation of lottery tax, EUR 221.2 million, Veikkaus Oy's share was 93.4 per cent and Pafi's share was 5.6 per cent. The lottery tax paid by Pafi would be reduced by more than EUR 6,5 million if it were to be taxed without change in 2019 by EUR 12,4 million. The impact depends partly on the future development of the corona epidemic, which has significantly reduced its impact in the current year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u57	Mr President! I still had to take the floor and clarify these arguments made here by the Finns of Finland. If you look at the STM STEA's distribution of money, you will find that there is so much research into effectiveness that you can even say that it goes a little over the top: the effectiveness is being studied so much that it already increases bureaucracy. There is a line that has come up against the fact that there is certainly nothing more to be done about effectiveness. Spending money and clearing it up — every euro is really going through it carefully, and of course all it is public, so that of course it would be nice to hear these things thrown at you, then what is it about. The sports department has more confidence in e.g. this kind of organization democracy when distributing these organization's money. In the case of the Ball Association, the state has not come out of the fact that government officials define how the Ball Association organises that football activity — it has been thought that organisation democracy is valuable. Of course, the reason for this too is that if the money is clearly misused, it will be recovered, and as the Minister has said here, this has also been experienced by Finnish sports organisations. Let us remember how even the Olympic Committee had difficulties with this funding. Then there are still those expenditures that go right directly to such typical, could say, generally for public sector tasks. In view of the construction of sports facilities, almost all of the sports facilities in this country have been leveraged with these winning assets, even private sports facilities. Of course, there are also those who have not received these subsidies. We have the funding of the Academy of Sciences — we have a lot of things on which it is, of course, all right to ask whether it is justified that it has been obtained through the proceeds of the lottery. And, as has been said here, at the moment that connection is not about to be dismantled, but I'm sure we're heading towards it. I think — whether it exists or not — that it is essential not only to finance all the rational activities but also to minimise the disadvantages of the game. And then, if that minimizing of gambling disadvantages means that there is less money to distribute, then you have to somehow compensate for it, as you are now responsiblely doing. However, I would hope that Parliament will not throw such a general shadow over the valuable organizational activity that is taking place in this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u58	Mr. Speaker! Firstly, we have to respond to this speech by Mrs Saramo that, yes, we really believe that there may be something in these grants and in these projects that is not, in particular, a matter for taxpayers. I do not know what point you missed on the previous speech when I was talking about the third sector to which the organisations belong: it has traditionally been voluntary, and it has been financed by contributions, and it is funded by donations. It's not part of the public sector. If what they are doing is legal, then it should go out of the budget to make it fair. It cannot be that we are moving the organisation field into the public sector either on the basis of a reduction in gambling revenues. This solution has nothing to do with dealing with gambling problems, even though such a view was expressed here. This is the result of the fact that the machines have not been able to go there, and therefore there was an emergency with the funding. No one has denied that there is much good in organizational work and that Finnish society does not rely much on organizational work. We do not deny that, but since we know that funding will be even more difficult in the future, you would think that it would be precisely then that we would want to find out whether there is an activity that does not belong there, so that the money will be sufficient for that proper activity. I wonder — when it seems a little like — that this organization field and this funding is perhaps like this another elephant in the glass shop in addition to immigration in this room, because it seems to raise a lot of problems to discuss this and deal with this issue as well. And I do not understand why it is not appropriate to make such a statement at this particular point and also to assess whether the criteria for granting money are those that really support the public interest that it is appropriate to assume that this will be supported. In just the same way, we can ask how, in this country, money goes to reduce smoking in Kyrgyzstan, if the criteria are so precise, so strict in some development aid or here. That sometimes looking in the mirror is all right. I myself have seven pages of projects, half of which I would perhaps stop funding on the grounds that they have not seen the general interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u59	Mr President! For a long time now, there has been a great deal of pressure on whether Mr Veikkaus can continue to be a monopoly. In view of the past, what Veikkaus has done for society and various NGOs, if the money had been put into the state budget, it would have been a significant gap, and in that way the use of the proceeds of the bet has gone to the benefit of society. It has supported physical activity and youth clubs and, above all — I recall that STEA is supporting it at the moment — the activities of the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare, which is very important and many, many others there. I wonder why there is so much opposition to this. Then, when we take that cultural and artistic side again, the good of the spiritual side has also been given to people in this corona situation, and we can produce it when not everyone can get it themselves. This will also help to improve this situation in this challenging situation in order to support the human capital of citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u60	Mr President! There is a cross-referencing of the debate, perhaps not so much about this proposal, but about where and how and on what scale NGOs will be supported in the future. It is the subject of its own debate, of its own discussion. This matter is now going to committee, and I believe that it will certainly also deal with the whole package of measures which will try to lighten or facilitate the hole that will otherwise be created, the one that is about to be born. In this debate it was estimated that this gap would arise mainly because people have not been able to play. It has a part to play, but the explanatory statement of the proposal also clearly states that slot machines have been reduced, the need for authentication has been increased. These are the measures that society has taken to reduce the risk of gambling. The result of these is that Veikkaus is losing profits, and this is something that we should be aware of in this debate. Reducing the risk of gambling has long been part of society’s agenda, and this is how it is reflected in Veikkaus’ incomes. Another important factor is that more and more people are gambling online abroad, and it has eaten up the demand for betish products. And this is also an issue that the government has outlined and which is looking for ways to generate these revenues to Finland, so that we can genuinely secure the monopoly that the majority of us agree on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u61	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The debate and discussion will continue at today's second plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u62	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the debate and the item will be suspended and resumed at the second plenary session today. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda will be moved to the next item.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u63	Mr President! This is a big and demanding package, and I believe that the committee will look into it exactly — this is a so-called banking package. The proposal proposes to amend the law on credit institutions, the law on the resolution of credit institutions and investment firms and certain related laws with a view to implementing the Directive on credit institutions, recovery and resolution. The aim of the proposal is, inter alia, to improve the resilience of banks by making the use of macro-prudential tools for the credit institution more flexible and by making the application of bank resolution regulation more effective. The aim is also to strengthen the conditions for the implementation of investor responsibility as part of the deepening of the EU Banking Union, and the laws are intended to enter into force from the beginning of next year. The changes to the macro-prudential capital requirements of the banking package are as follows: First, credit institutions cannot be subject to more additional capital requirements on the basis of the same risks. Secondly, the additional capital requirement of a significant credit institution and the systemic risk buffer will be added together in the future, which will allow for a theoretical increase in buffers of up to 8%. Thirdly, the maximum additional capital requirement of a significant credit institution will be increased from the current 2 to 3%. And fourthly, the Board of Financial Supervisory Board may, if necessary, target the systemic risk buffer requirement in a more targeted way. In addition to or in place of all exposures of credit institutions, this requirement may be imposed separately on mortgages, commercial real estate loans, household loans other than mortgages, corporate loans other than commercial real estate loans and all of these sub-items. Furthermore, there is a minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities in the proposal. Mr President! Simply implementing this whole will increase the ability of supervisors to react so that buffers are pro-actively grown. On the other side, society will have to make a careful assessment of the way in which the possibility of increasing buffers affects the total amount of credit provided by the credit institution, how monetary institutions interpret it, might be said to be hidden by the demand for buffers, and how to react to it. The Government considers that these measures are justified in terms of increasing overall stability and therefore the proposal has been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u64	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the debate and the item will be suspended and resumed at the second plenary session today. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda will be moved to the next item.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u65	Mr President! This is a much simpler presentation compared to what we just saw: In the Government's proposal for a law amending Article 3 of the Real Estate Tax Act, it is proposed to amend the Real Estate Tax Act in accordance with the Government Programme to exempt nature reserves protected under Article 24 of the Nature Conservation Act from the property tax. In addition, the criteria for the taxation of real estate for new offshore wind power plants would be reduced by a decree of the Ministry of Finance in accordance with the Government Programme. The Act is intended to enter into force from the beginning of next year and would be applied for the first time in the taxation to be provided from 21 C.E.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u66	Mr President! Especially in the archipelago, property tax has caused major problems for individual people. The property tax has risen by as much as a thousand per cent, and the tax office has demanded that island property tax be applied both to nature reserves and to the rocks, i.e. to areas that may even be under water during the autumn storm. So we need a real estate tax reform, and this proposal is a good first step in this reform. Mr President! I would ask the Minister about buildings in nature reserves: if a public building, such as a camping house, is located in a private nature reserve, will it still be taxable and whose taxes should then be paid?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u67	Mr President! I have tried to understand this bill, and I have interpreted it in the same way that other proposals have been made today. This proposal is also based on a cleaner climate and the transition to a non-fossil and carbon-neutral society and carbon-neutral energy. The proposal reduces property taxation for offshore wind power plants and exempts areas protected under the Nature Conservation Act from property tax. The reduction in the real estate tax on offshore wind power will be applied to new power plants, which will start construction from the beginning of 2021. The aim is thus to speed up the construction of new offshore wind turbines, and I think that the proposal is a good one. The importance of wind power will increase in the future due to the need for electricity and climate objectives. I now ask the Minister for Finance: What is the effect of this law on the construction of future wind forces? Will this encourage the construction of wind power in particular?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u68	Arade Herr Talman! Tack till regeringen för det ox förslaget. Det är viktigt för att stimula möjligheten att bygga havsbaserad vindkraft. Det är en outnuttjad potential som finns i Finland och på Åland, och som det kommer att understöda, och där Finland hits inte har variantt läs framgångsrikt med att bygga vindkraftsparker till havs. Det kommer att underlätta det arbetet, så tack till regeringen för det. Jag vill också fästa uppmärksamhet på det som ledamot Bergqvist tidigare tog upp om den fastighetsbeskattning som slår valttvist mot de områden som finns uet på skärgårdsholmar och skär, inte bara i Åbolands skärgård utan också på Åland — sådant som inte tidigare har beskattats utan som har variantt impedition men nuska bettas på ett mycket ortvist stät stät stät stät stätt kan få stora och svåra consekvenser. Jag vill förena mig med ledamot Bergqvist, som efferlyste en totalreform av beskattningen på den bull mitesten. Det är viktigt att regeringen också tittar på det.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u69	Irade the Talman! Enligt förslaget skulle et tänkt beskattningsvärde för havsbaserade vindkraftverk endast gälla sådana kraftverk som byggs i vatten. Byggs kraftverket på ett havsområde, men anläggandet kan ske från stranden med hjälp av sådan teknik som tinllampas i fråga om landbaserade vindkraftverk, finns det enligt förslaget inga grunder att sänka fastighetsskatten. Motiveringen är att det då inte finns någon betydande skillnad i byggkostnaderna. Det ox upplever jag reserve tviveaktigt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u70	Mr President! I will try to pay attention to Mrs Bergqvist's question about these buildings and structures in private nature reserves. It is better for experts in the committee to give a precise interpretation that I do not misinterpret. This was discussed during the preparation of the proposal, but I was certainly unable to remember where that interpretation was going. In general, the value of their constructions, buildings and abandoned subsidies is very low and it is perhaps more a matter of a nominal tax, which is included in these structures. There were several contributions to the offshore wind. At the moment, we only have offshore wind power in Pori. Instead, the explanatory statement of the proposal estimates that this proposal would lead to an increased interest in the construction of offshore wind power — perhaps even so that in 30 years we could have offshore wind power up to 15 terawatt hours, that is, well over 10, closer to 15 per cent of our total electricity consumption. In other words, significant growth is expected. This performance compared to Pori Park, for example: I remember that the reduction in the property tax if that old park had been included would have reduced the property tax revenue of the city of Pori by between EUR 300000 and EUR 400000 per year. In other words, already for this one park there is a significant amount involved in the year, and that certainly affects the profitability threshold. After all, this brings the tax level of offshore wind farms to quite the same level, as I understand it, which is the tax level for fixed-land wind turbines.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u71	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the debate and the item will be suspended and resumed at the second plenary session today. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda will be moved to the next item.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u72	Mr President! The proposal proposes that Parliament give its consent to the possibility for the Government to grant counter-guarantees without requiring a State guarantee of EUR 2.27 billion of special drawing rights for the Bank of Finland in order to secure the financing facility for the new ranges to bow. The proposal proposes that Parliament give its consent to the possibility of the Government granting counter-guarantees without requiring a State guarantee of EUR 3.76 billion to guarantee the possible losses of a bilateral loan to the Bank of Finland to the International Monetary Fund. As the doubling of this new ranges to bow enters into force, the State guarantee provided as collateral for a bilateral loan will be reduced from EUR 3.76 billion to EUR 1.62 billion. At the same time, it is proposed that the State guarantee granted as collateral under this NAB in 2016 be repealed and that the previous State guarantee granted as collateral for an international loan in 2017 also be repealed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u73	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the debate and the item will be suspended and resumed at the second plenary session today. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda will be moved to the next item.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u74	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a law amending the Customs Act concerns the imposition of administrative sanctions when cultural objects unlawfully exported are transferred to Finland. This amendment would complement the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the transfer and import of cultural goods into the customs territory of the Member States. The starting point for EU regulation has been the Action Plan to strengthen the fight against terrorist financing. Under the proposed law Customs could impose a penalty fee if cultural objects unlawfully exported are transferred to Finland and, at the same time, to the customs territory of the EU. The general principle of the EU Regulation is that the legislation of the country of export determines trade in cultural goods which are considered to be illegal. Under the Regulation, cultural objects referred to in the Regulation which have been unlawfully exported from a third country shall not be transferred to the customs territory of the EU. In the preparation of the Government’s proposal, it has been considered that if the goods transferred to the customs territory were imported under customs law, the identification of the smuggling provided for in Section 4 of Chapter 46 of the Criminal Code would be fulfilled. However, even if the goods are not even attempted to import and the characteristics of smuggling are not met, the prohibition of the movement into the customs territory may be violated. Such cases include the placing of goods under transit or temporary storage procedures. For these cases, it is proposed to supplement the EU legal act by imposing an administrative sanction on the Customs Act for breaching the prohibition on the transfer of a cultural object to the customs territory of the EU as provided for in the Regulation. That was clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u75	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. After the Minister's presentation, the debate will take place. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the debate and the item will be suspended and resumed at the second plenary session today. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda will be put to the vote. The Minister is not here, so let's go straight to the list of speakers, there's a lot of people here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u76	Mr President! Vocational education supports the growth of humanity, strengthens social inclusion and provides the necessary knowledge and skills for the development of the profession. Vocational education plays an important role in building a knowledgeable, equal and equal society. In vocational education, everyone has the opportunity to acquire a profession and to update their skills at different stages of their working lives — absolutely vital. The Government therefore proposes that the percentages of the vocational education and training funding system remain at the 20th level from 21 onwards: 70 per cent of basic funding, 20 per cent of performance-based funding and 10 per cent of effectiveness funding. Basic funding is determined by the number of students, performance funding is determined by qualifications, and effectiveness funding is distributed on the basis of post-graduate employment and access to further studies — an important carrot, too. President! Originally, it was intended that from 22 onwards, a financing model with a 50% share of basic funding, 35% of performance funding and 15% of effectiveness funding would have been introduced. However, developments have developed. Funding would have become unpredictable from the point of view of education and training providers, which would have made the renewal of activities and vocational training very challenging. In particular, the smallest training providers suffer from annual fluctuations in funding. Improving the predictability and stability of funding makes it possible for education and training providers to have better access to quality and more work-oriented training. The 70-20-10 funding model is well balanced from the point of view of both stability and sufficient incentives. Performance-based and effectiveness funding will continue to play an important role. It will remain at 30% and will amount to around EUR 556 million of all funding. Training organisers have set out to implement vocational education and training reforms in a fine way. The development work carried out by the organisers will bear fruit, and the results will also be rewarded by the contributions presented. The aim of this change is to ensure that all education and training providers remain involved in the development process and are able to respond to skills shortages across the country. The Centre trusts the organisers' strong expertise. President! The Government wants to bring stability and peace to the education and training providers. A higher share of basic funding will increase the predictability that is important for the sponsors. The Centre wants to support the implementation of the objectives of the reform of vocational education and training, more work-oriented education, fewer interruptions and the construction of more personal training paths for students of different ages. The reform of vocational education and training will only be successful if, on behalf of funding and other factors, the providers of training are best placed to undertake reforms and develop training from their own perspective. Securing the resources of vocational education and training is an important priority for this government. The Government has decided that an additional EUR 250 million will be allocated to the recruitment of teachers and instructors. This means between 4000 and 5000 additional person-years of work for the everyday life of vocational education and training. President! Finland needs vocational training.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u77	Mr President! Finland needs authors, handicrafts, professionals and women - all kinds of skills are needed. Although new work is to be created in areas where higher education studies are particularly needed, practical experts are also needed. One of the strengths of the Finnish education system is that everyone can move forward on the school path, from vocational school to university of applied sciences, for example. There's no point in giving an educational path a bagel. For some young people it is appropriate to continue to higher education later when they have first strengthened their professional skills in working life. Someone wants to work handicrafts throughout their working lives, even then, skills must be supplemented during their working lives. Both kinds of paths are needed. Vocational education and training must be adequately equipped for further studies. The Government proposes that the percentages of contributions from the VET funding system be maintained from 2021 onwards at the 2020 level: 70 % core funding, 20 % performance-based funding and 10 % effectiveness funding. This has been the original objective of the city centre. It is the task of vocational education and training to train our skilled workforce for the needs of companies and society. There is a major shortage of experts in some areas. At the same time, young people have also become unemployed because of Korona. Flexibility in vocational precision and additional training is needed. As the number of young people declines in the coming years and decades, vocational education and training will increasingly have a role to play in the implementation of continuous learning for working-age people. Already, a significant number of adults are studying in vocational education and training. For all of this, vocational education and training needs stability and peace of development, a sufficient share of basic funding, predictability that is important to the organisers for additional funding. Vocational school reform has progressed at different speeds in different schools. The change is still ongoing, and learning a new learning culture is still being practiced. The stability of basic funding will ensure that everyone is able to join this reform and its change. For example, it is worth investing in management and personnel competence in the spirit of continuous learning. It is also important to put information systems in order. Mr President! The Centre wishes to continue supporting the reform of vocational education and training. Training must be based on working life. Discontinuation must be reduced in every way, and the extension of compulsory education also responds to this. We must also build personal training pathways for students of different ages in vocational education and training. Knowledge-based skills provide opportunities for every student to receive exactly what they need. This reform has contributed to the motivation of young people in studying, and this increase in motivation is crucial in reducing interruptions. The reform of vocational education and training will be successful in the long run, as the providers of education have the opportunity to constantly reform their own activities from their own perspective. In recent times, there has been considerable investment in vocational education and training. I think it is very important. As compulsory education is now extended, I think it is important that it remains knowledge-based, that whole school days and education be taken care of for those who lack skills. As a special teacher, I am also concerned that those students who have received intensified support in basic education will also receive support in vocational training when they move there. It is important that we keep all young people on the school path.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u78	President! The so-called test model is a welcome change, because carrying out a professional qualification test without compulsory prior training would be a flexible way of obtaining the necessary certificate of professional qualifications and moving quickly to work. The extension of working lives and the acceleration of the transition of young people to the labour market should be further examined in education and training policy. Hardly any of us are opposed to changes to the obligation to give a certificate of employment and to the automatic feedback system. The obligation to have a certificate of employment would strengthen the legal status of apprentices and the labour market position. It is clear that all the work done must be certified.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u79	Mr President! In the last period, when, as part of the reform of vocational education and training, the financing of vocational education and training was changed by means of a transitional provision designed to gradually reduce the share of basic funding and then to increase the funding obtained on the basis of performance and effectiveness, concerns were expressed in the debate already held that such a financial instrument would encourage educational institutions as if it were a choice of pupils. It now seems that this is what unfortunately has happened. If this funding model were to continue, it would encourage educational institutions to choose the best and the easiest students, not to help drop out of school, which is one of the big goals of the government. It would also encourage us to focus on efficiency and speed, at worst even on such performance, rather than quality. In order to avoid these problems, this government proposal has now been made that this year's financing model should remain a permanent state of affairs, which means that the weight of performance and effectiveness will no longer increase. That is why this bill is very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u80	Mr President! It is absolutely excellent that the Ministry of Education and Culture has now decided to prepare the matter in such a way that basic funding remains at 70%, and it is probably even more important that substantial additional funding be given to vocational education and training. Some of the crisis-stricken vocational schools are now being set up. Indeed, teachers, young people and parents have received rather worrying feedback in recent years. Many amks are doing a wonderful job, and there have been some very good speeches about it. But in part this amisreform and then the training cuts have led to quite a wild result. When school days are an hour or two, they don't motivate. The particular problem, which even we in Uusimaa have received feedback on, is that it is difficult to get young people on longer school trips for an hour to come to school, and many people have experienced that young people have been almost lost when they have not received the support they need. On the other hand, even companies have received feedback that when young people are taught that the days are short, it also makes it difficult for them to work when they have to move on to that side. On the other hand, it is also important that vocational schools also learn more than just their own profession, and general education is important for all of us. The amount of education has also been a problem in enabling proper further learning capacities. It is very important now that this proposal before us corrects these problems, that is a good thing, that additional appropriations replace them, but also then this extension of compulsory education is an important part of this package, because it then comes along with everything else: support comes with support, starting with the idea that secondary education is something that everyone needs to cope with in this society, where employment is still more difficult. Of course, I think this is part of the excellent education policy of this government, which invests in all levels where all measures are mutually supportive, but it is good that the government has taken immediate action, especially within vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u81	Mr President! It is good that vocational training is now being raved, said, at least for a minor reform of vocational education and training that has failed during the previous term of the government. With the increase in compulsory school age and the second degree free of charge, this is a big change wheel for vocational education and training as a whole. And, of course, it is important that next year's budget now has funding for around a thousand teachers in contact education. I myself believe that this funding model is in the right direction: 70 for basic funding and 20 for the impact funding, which I think will then be a little more balanced between different regions and different educational institutions. One problem here is — fortunately the Minister of Education came to the scene: At least those opinions have indicated that these performances on which the calculation of basic funding is based will not be confirmed until the autumn. This makes it quite difficult to anticipate the organisation of education in educational institutions and to plan the budget and activities. This renewal of the rhythm to some extent to that spring would greatly facilitate the plans for the next year of vocational education and training. Then there is the second question when the Minister for Education is present: it has been strongly criticised that this four million is not nearly enough for free secondary education. As regards North Karelia Riveria, for example, it has been calculated that it is 600,000 for them alone. And now that we have the four million money for this, I would like to ask the Minister for Education what the truth is about this funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u82	Mr President! Of course, the reforms of the previous government were welcome because we have young people who are not really interested in theoretical studies and then want to study the profession more in practice, where that is possible. But there was such a problem that basic knowledge when not received from the theoretical side, so there were problems then also at the practical level. And I know companies that have directly received apprenticeships for themselves, for example, turners and so away, but then what is needed for more basic knowledge has not really been on a good level, mainly depending on the fact that this local education has not been and such a young person has been little lost in the teaching jungle. Well then, the Minister's question: There will be feedback that when we have agricultural training and then forestry training and then also transport education, this state share has now been calculated on the basis of theoretical training, although these are different sectors — there needs to be, for example, the purchase of cars or something else on the transport side, and then there are machines and this type of farming. This has not been taken into account in any way, according to the information that came to me in this draft. What does it look like to the minister? This should be taken into account in a certain way if, for example, a tractor or a lorry is to be purchased as teaching material, so that it can be seen in some way in terms of funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u83	Mr President! Indeed, we are dealing here with the government's proposal for a law on the amendment of the Vocational Education Act and the related laws. The Government proposal proposes to amend four laws: the law on vocational education and training, the law on transport services, the law on the financing of education and culture activities and the law on national records of studies and qualifications. The proposal introduces amendments to the reference provisions and specifies the rules on appeal to the Transport Services Act. The main change in the proposal relates to the Financial Act, to which it is proposed to make changes in order to maintain the contribution rate for vocational education and training at the level of 2020. In addition, the proposal would specify the points related to the collection of feedback on students and working life and move the consideration of feedback on working life as part of the funding until 2023. Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, the entire legislation on vocational education and training was reformed. As part of this major reform, the reform of the financial system was also carried out, particularly during a long transition period. The reform of the financial system aimed to encourage training providers to act as effectively as possible and to guide training and qualifications according to the needs of working life and the skills of individuals. And this was the idea that this basic funding for the long run would be slightly reduced, but then the emphasis will be on performance and effectiveness funding. Now, the government's proposal has virtually withdrawn the reform that has taken place during the last parliamentary term. In practice, well-functioning training providers will disappear with a change in the financing model. According to the Government's proposal, the reform of the financial system will be frozen to the level of the current year and the share of performance and effectiveness funding will not increase anymore. Of these, when I was looking at the statements, some of the commentators did not support the proposal to change the financing model in the middle of the transitional period of the financing model without a thorough analysis of effectiveness. Fortunately, there is a minister here and he can tell us about these impact analyses. A number of opinions supported the proposal that the fixed-term increases decided on in the budget, which will be distributed in the form of increases subject to interpretation of basic funding, should not in future reduce the accruals-specific financing of basic funding. Well, this is where the bill brings both winners and losers. I have therefore asked the committee for a calculation — not only of what is here in the government’s proposal but also of what is meant by a school-specific simulation — for which educational institution. After all, we have been very much contacted by those who are now losing in this situation. And, unfortunately, when they seem to be those schools in the provinces that are now losing out, that is a very bad thing. I also think that there is a problem here that, when a certain financial model was designed, it will suddenly be changed in the middle of the period, and this predictability, which is very important in the administration of the state, is now falling apart. But of course, surely, when we have the Minister of Education here, he will tell us why this was done and why, precisely in the middle of this reform, the funding of the educational institutions that have invested in doing more of this impact and performance will be reduced. I already ordered those calculations for today. Unfortunately, I have not yet received them, but the Ministry of Education and Culture has promised them to be discussed in that committee. I call for predictability and for them to be communicated to the educational institutions in good time when any plans are made. Surely there are educational institutions that are now winning. Mr Pierainen has just told me very well about the regulation which has been the subject of statements at the moment, namely these baskets. In other words, it is its own trade fair, the regulation that goes on there, which concerns the baskets of various training programmes, and when those baskets change, the problem is that it is there that the forestry sector is in difficulty, as well as the agricultural sector as a whole. And I warmly support it if we now learn a little more about these. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u84	And here we give the Minister the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u85	Mr President! Thank you, and also my deep regret that I did not make it to the beginning of this debate. I had the wrong information about this processing schedule, which is why I came a little late, but we are here anyway. Thank you, too, to the representatives for their good questions. As we have seen from the debate and from the speeches, this is therefore about changes to several different laws, most of which are of a technical nature, but this key change, which is now being proposed here, relates to the financial system for our vocational training. The proposed changes therefore mean that in the vocational education and training funding model, the basic funding would be 70% in the future, the performance funding would be 20% and the effectiveness funding would then be 10%. The aim of this change is to ensure that training providers have an adequate and sufficiently predictable level of basic funding. This is also intended to ensure financial stability and will enable training to be organised also for those target groups who need more than average training and guidance to complete part of a degree or degree and who are less likely to complete part of a degree or degree and to find employment. After the proposed change, the combined share of performance and effectiveness funding would be 30%, so a significant share of the total funding for vocational education and training would be determined on the basis of the elements and qualifications that have been completed and effectiveness, thereby also encouraging training providers to take appropriate account of the skills needs of individuals and the needs of working life. The last speech referred to who were the winners and losers of the reform. In my opinion, this is more about what kind of financial system we want to create for our entire vocational education and training at national level. This issue of the need to have a sufficient share of basic funding is something which has been widely discussed at the time when the reform of vocational education and training was decided in this Chamber, and even then the providers of training and very wide-ranging actors wanted at least 60% of basic funding, precisely because, while the providers of education and training still bear a significant part of the costs, they are rents, staff costs, this sufficient share of basic funding also ensures that it can be long-term planning at the same time, of course, with a view to meeting the skills needs of working life as quickly and agilely as possible. Several speakers also raised the question of the financing of compulsory education. Thus, funding for compulsory education will gradually increase every year as an increasing number of students move to this free education and extended compulsory education, i.e. next year we will talk about 22 million, but then, I think, it will rise to 65 for the following year. Then the cost structure of the various sectors referred to here, such as the forest machinery sector or the like, where there is a rather expensive cost structure for the production of education: This has been taken into account in the financing system for vocational education and training, precisely through these cost baskets, i.e., according to this cost-fixing game, the providers of training will then receive money in the sense that they organise these so-called more expensive trainings. This has not in itself been taken into account in compulsory education funding, because it is our assumption that each learner will not have his own tractor, but that the purchase of those tractors is a basic task of the trainers when they produce this training, and then the subject of those who are obliged to do so is more about learning materials or the smaller tools or clothing required. With regard to this cost basket, we have stated that this issue will be further prepared. The regulation which had been adopted was therefore based on the calculated production costs of education over the previous years, but I agree with the chairman of the Committee on Education and Culture that it should also carefully consider and examine the implications for the different providers of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u86	We have spent more or less the time allocated here, but Mr Risiko, the chairman of the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy, has the floor, so please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-20-ps-133.u87	Mr President! Thank you for this opportunity. Indeed, it is as the Minister said: you are quite right that, when this reform funding system was being considered, it was also in favour and against, and it was precisely in the hope that this basic funding would have been kept the same. Well, then it came to the conclusion that a new system of this kind was going to be put in place, and I am not criticising it if a good model is found. That's excellent. But the problem at the moment is that all those students have made their own plans and made their own financial plans, how they start to run things over the years, when they have had such a assumption, that they have precisely such performances and effectiveness evaluated and become those boys, that is to say, as well as money. Now, of course, there is the problem, and now, of course, we will look closely at how it is divided into different doctrines: who are the losers, and who are the winners? Of course, there is no such competition now, but I want to see who is now being abused by this reform, which suddenly comes in the middle of everything. But it is very good, Minister, that you are looking at these baskets. There, for example, the forestry industry and industry in general have had the problem of being in a rather low basket. The same is true, for example, of health education, which also includes these training fees, i.e. paid to the practical fields. It's going to raise the cost. Similarly, all the instruments that need to be at the moment increase the cost, and that is why it is very important to seriously assess which training programme belongs to which basket and whether in the future — this is just my vision — it makes sense to have such baskets, or whether we need to think about a whole new system for this. All the strength, Minister, for all of these. - Thank you.
