ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u1	Ladies and gentlemen and the citizens following this broadcast! I would remind you that we have a temporary arrangement relating to this pandemic, which is due to the desire to act in the interests of the functioning of Parliament. That is why only a quarter of the Members of Parliament are present in plenary sessions and also in these Question Hours. I would ask you to bear in mind that some Members of Parliament are working at a distance in their own room in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u2	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u3	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u4	Mr President! Yesterday, the EU Commission announced a new debt package containing 500 billion gift money
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u5	Mr President! Indeed, yesterday we came up with a package of some 2000 pages, and the government has not yet had time to deal with the whole package overnight and make up a position.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u6	Thank you. — I would ask those who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u7	Mr President! It is good for citizens to know that Finland did not oppose solidarity like Sweden. Even if the gift money became a loan, the Finnish taxpayer would still be responsible. Cosmetic consideration and conditions are not enough. The adoption of this debt package requires unanimity from the Member States. Finland can prevent the implementation of the package or opt out of it. In Italy, the price of tax evasion is EUR 190 billion. Just imagine that Finland would pay the debts of the Member States which have failed to pay their own taxes even before its economy was restored — countries that are having difficulty in getting their own citizens to pay their own taxes. At the same time, Minister Ohio is already talking about EU tax law. I ask the Minister: how does this encourage Italy to make the necessary spending cuts, and what do you say to the Finns who pay nicely the current and future taxes that you are already planning?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u8	Mr President! It is quite clear that Finland will not rise by the fact that we are taking debt, and it is quite clear that Europe will not rise by the fact that we are taking debt. It is also clear that since we have closed societies because of this virus, which has not been the cause of any country's economic policy, we are now putting the stimulus money in motion. It is not a sustainable road, neither in Finland nor in Europe, that we should simply handle it with debt and taxes, and that is why it is so crucial that these reforms are carried out. In some countries, such reforms may concern issues such as those mentioned by Mr Junnila. We also have our own guarantee to do a huge amount of reforms, which I am sure should have been done decades ago, so this applies to us too, so that we can get through this big loan burden which is already coming to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u11	Mr President! The planned recovery fund would shovel money to countries with a lower tax rate than Finland. Thus, Finns pay higher taxes so that some others do not have to. Participation in such arrangements is often justified, for example, by the fact that the Finnish export industry would suffer if our export regions got into problems — as if the recipients of subsidies were using the money to buy Finnish export products. Much more would help the Finnish export industry to cut its cost level by, for example, lowering the taxation of work, energy and mobility. I ask the same question as before: is there a point where the government is prepared to say that the federal project and the debt union are too expensive for Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u12	Mr President! Finland is always in all international cooperation
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u13	Mr President! As Mr Kulmuni, the Prime Minister's deputy, has said, the Government is very careful to look into this vast package of recovery by the Commission. And if Finland thinks that there is something to be corrected, then we will go to the negotiations to correct that proposal. We form a position and bring it to Parliament and together we drive the Finnish line. But it is worth saying, ladies and gentlemen, that now we are not under normal conditions. There are exceptional conditions in Finland. There is still an emergency situation in several EU Member States. The EU emergency mechanism has been activated. Many experts warn that this continent will end up in the deepest and most serious recession of all time, an economic crisis that will plunge businesses into bankruptcy and unemployment. And now it is a question of how the EU responds to this corona crisis and the serious economic shock it is causing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u14	Mr President! Because of this corona crisis, both Finland and Europe need exceptional support measures. For a new, sustainable economic growth it is a lifeline. However, the Assembly believes that strict, clear conditions should be negotiated for the use of the recovery fund. Each country is responsible for its own debts and this money must be strictly linked to the reform of the economies of the Member States so that such aid packages are not needed in the future. In addition, you should know who pays and when you pay. What is the government's idea: will the membership contribution be increased, will more EU taxes be collected, or will there be more loans that no one pays? In that sense, this reminds the government programme of the Rinne-Marin programme that expenditure is first used but where the revenue comes from is not known. It is up to the Government to negotiate reasonable terms for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u16	Mr President! Finland cooperates with each EU Member State on different issues. They relate to different positions in the Member States. Yes, many countries in northern Europe have very similar positions. Finland has been cooperating — and still is — with members of the Hansa Group, with its immediate neighbours and with many other countries. It is always one thing at a time, for which we are working and in which line of cooperation. However, Finland is a key country in the solution, and that is why it is important for us that we always find partners there. Of course, it is not good to be alone and be divided about everything, but to seek and influence solutions, because Finland has the same voice on the EU tables as all other Member States. We always work extensively and well together on economic policy and other issues with countries that have similar policies to ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u17	Mr President! The policy of this government is to support a strong and united European Union,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u20	Mr President! How and by what advance did Finland participate and seek to influence this major recovery proposal? The Prime Minister, Mr Marin, said in the debate on Goldiranta that the government was waiting for the Commission's proposal before forming its own position. Following the Commission's proposal, Minister Tuppurainen announced that Finland has pushed for a more significant share of the loans. On the other hand, the Minister: My corner said last night that the government does not yet have a common position. These messages contradict each other. A large number of Member States already gave their views on the model and size of the recovery fund in good time. However, the Finnish Government did not take part in this debate in advance in Europe. So the other countries were active in advance, Finland was not. Minister Tuppurainen, has Finland had an advance on the recovery fund, and if so, what was it? How did the government try to influence this Commission proposal in advance?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u21	Mr President! This is a very important question, because for Finland, a timely ex-ante impact on the EU is the way in which our performance is resolved. After all, this was a recovery package with this multiannual EU financial framework, and that is what Finland's positions are known for. We have taken a position on it, and we have taken those positions forward with determination. It is also important, of course, that we have a vision of what is going to happen, and we have foreook it. This pre-emptive action is mainly taken at informal ministerial contacts, but also at official level at the so-called Sherpa meetings, and there we have signalled that, if recovery is to be built up, it would be a priority for it to be loan funding, so that we know how it will be repaid. This has always been the starting point for us that, if a recovery fund is to be made, it must be clear and precise for everyone and the responsibilities of Finland must be known well in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u22	Mr Laukkanen, the same set of questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u23	Mr President! Indeed, yesterday the European Commission published its proposal for a multiannual financial framework for the Union, some 750 billion to the recovery fund. However, most of this would flow to Italy and Spain as grants. Finland's share of the grants would be around 3.7 billion, but at the same time our contribution would be well over one dozen billion. For the first time in the history of the recovery fund, the EU would take out a substantial loan that the EU countries would pay back in the form of contributions, i.e. who knows what this contribution will eventually become. Like Mauri Pekkarinen, the Christian Democratic Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats says that it has experienced ‘not for such a package, absolutely’ not for non-remuneration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u26	Mr President! It is quite clear that when new proposals are made they require broad European support and must be considered in such a way that they receive political support from Europeans, that the economic figures are clear. Parliament must be informed of all its responsibilities if Finland is to go with it — where it goes with it, with what kind of amount — that these are precise. We know that budgetary sovereignty is only and only in this house, and this also requires legal consideration and a very careful investigation. We know that the Finnish Constitution is good and strict, and it does come from the fact that all these details must be known. We do not yet have the details, and that is why, of course, Finland is going to negotiate that we can make that proposal better, because of course it is not possible for it to succeed as it is. That's the basis on which we leave, and I'm sure Parliament will be informed,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u27	Mr President! The Commission's proposal for this recovery fund is a very big step in principle, it is a step towards federal development. The Christian Democrats cannot accept such a solidarity debt and neither can the Union for Transfers. The EU Treaties clearly state that the Union must not be financed into debt, nor must the debts of other Member States be taken over by other Member States. This payment of debts and also the way in which it is paid are currently obscured. It has even been said that the EU will be given tax rights, and, if I have understood correctly, here in the ranks of the government, Minister Ohio has even supported such ideas. Mr. Government, I would now have asked if Finland had the nerve to say ‘no’ to this performance? It is a clear violation not only of the central points of the EU Treaty but also of the Finnish Constitution and of the Constitutional Treaty.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u28	Mr President! Of course, we must carefully examine and listen to the lawyers and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to examine the legal basis on which the Commission has built its own proposal. I am not ready to say the last word about it myself, because the Commission has made its own proposal, stating that it is in line with the EU Treaties. The Commission has therefore not gone into breach of its own treaties, but there is an article in the Treaties which states that the EU may have its own revenue, other than that of contributions. Similarly, the Commission has built a legal basis for this: it is based on the so-called 'Solidarity Treaty', which calls for a state of emergency caused by a natural disaster in the Union, enabling the EU to support its Member States. And I think that in this pandemic, in this corona crisis, there are quite a number of people who think it is a natural disaster in which the Member States are also asked for solidarity with another.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u29	Mr. Speaker! In Finland, bread queues are growing, in Finland unemployment is increasing, the plight of low incomes is increasing. The interest crisis has hit here, Finland. What is the EU doing? It makes Finland pay billions of dollars to Italy, Greece and Spain. The planned part of the EU for Finland is eternal debt imprisonment. The Commission's intention is to prevent the new Brexit, that is to say the differences between the Member States from the EU, from making it so expensive that no one could ever leave the EU, such as the British, at least without paying an unreasonable price. The Members of Parliament who are calling for this Commission package are no longer in favour of Finland; they are in favour of the EU. I ask the government whether Britain has restored its independence.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u31	Mr President! The EU is not a coercive community. The EU will not force any Member State to do better than to keep up with it. We can get out of the EU, as the Brexis show. Of course, the conditions must be negotiated, and negotiations are currently under way on the future relationship with Britain, and they have not been very easy. We do not yet know what the future trade relationship with the United Kingdom will be like and whether it will be the case that the economy of the island country will flourish. All this remains to be seen. But it is important for Finland that we are involved in this European cooperation, because it is our home market. That is the most important export market for us. Our fates are united. We cannot imagine doing something better outside when 40% of our gross domestic product is exported. Our interests are united, and that is why we are actively at the forefront of the EU to make sure that Finland's voice as a full member of the Union is heard
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u32	Mr. Speaker! It must be understood that, in practice, in 12 years, there was a great deal of solidarity in Europe. At the moment, solidarity is created through the ESM, and it is created through the European Central Bank by huge sums. Being part of the European Union itself brings us a sense of community, and all of this must be understood on this basis. It is now good that this new financial instrument, when negotiated, is being brought into the European Union budget. It will be democratic and transparent and can be supported because it will enable us to see what solutions are being made — democratically and openly. But then we will come to those terms and then we will continue to negotiate. It is up to the Finnish Government to negotiate the best possible conditions for Finland, keeping to our long principles. When you said, Minister Tuppurainen, that Finland cooperates on a case-by-case basis, the economic line of the small countries of northern Europe is exactly where it works.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u35	There's already some answers coming out of this gym. — Mr President! Of course, Mr Orpo, one way to assess this is from the point of view that Finland is a euro country, in other words, unlike our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Denmark, we have chosen that we should be in the single currency. It is already a natural way of assessing how Finland views this European policy. Of course, we are prepared to work together on issues such as the deepening of the internal market or state aid rules, trade policy issues, where this makes sense for all of us, but the creation of such permanent blocks would be unfortunate in this situation, because the European Union is strong when it is united. The aim of this government is to support a strong and united European Union capable of solving the major global crises of our time. These global crises include climate challenges, growing inequalities, but also growing tensions in power politics,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u36	Mr President! Finland always cooperates with similar countries on a thematic basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u39	Mr Adlercreutz has asked the same question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u40	Ärade talman, Mr President! Diskussionen kring kommissionens förslag går het i Europa, också rai i salen, och av goda skäl. Coronakrisen har varit en ekonomisk catastrophe på flera håll, och det är viktigt att de crisdrabbade lännderna stöds — också av egna själviska skäl, helt som minister Tuppurainen så väl lade fram. Men trots det måste det ox förslaget filas ännu. Andelen rena bidrag är stor i förhållande till andelen lån, och här brode vi hitta en battre balans.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u41	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Adlercreutz, for an excellent question. Now is the time to create the growth story with which this continent, Europe, and Finland will rise to new sustainable growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u42	To the same subject, Mr Harkimo, Movement Now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u43	Mr President! When this idea is born between Germany and France, it is clear that they also want to save their own banks when they want to distribute direct subsidies. It's obvious. But when this is also a big loan pool and we want to distribute more debt to countries that are already over-indebted, and when we know that at some point the ECB will become an even bigger loan package, we will end up in a situation where we will be forced to forgive the loans. It'll follow after this. A clear road map must be set for these countries in the context of the forgiveness of these loans. After the forgiveness of loans, this printing of money, or increasing loans, must stop. How do you, the government, imagine that countries such as Italy and Spain will be able to cope with continued borrowing when they are already almost insolvent?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u44	Mr President! Of course, the fact that we are in this situation as a result of the corona virus is not the fault of any country's economic policy. There is nothing anyone could have done about the virus coming to Europe. However, in a situation where many countries have had difficulties in fulfilling the commitments we have made together at European level, it is absolutely essential that those rules be adhered to, and that is why Finland always emphasises the legal basis, the rule-based nature, and this applies to us as well. Finland's central government debt will also grow very much. That is why it is important that we be able to control that debt, and that is why Finland – and neither Europe – will not be able to cope with this by means of a debt alone, nor will taxes be able to cope with it. It requires reforms, and for us they are certainly different from those in many other countries. But the fact that each country manages its own economic policy and is also responsible for its own debt, which must:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u45	Chairman of the Grand Committee, Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u46	Mr President! It would be most expensive if Europe were allowed to sink into a prolonged, deep-seated country of interest. More than half of Finland's exports are also to EU countries. How the economy of other EU countries is doing will inevitably affect us as well. The excellent feature of the proposal announced yesterday by the Commission is precisely what Mr Tuppurainen was talking about, namely that two birds will be struck with one stone: most of the investments that would bring Europe up from the interest rate depression will be directed towards targets that will also curb climate change, building a sustainable future. Another interesting feature of the Commission's proposal is that at least part of it would not be financed by Member States' contributions or guarantees, but by new sources of income, such as taxes on plastic waste or carbon dioxide emissions, i.e. pollution taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u47	Mr President! From the beginning of 2018, the Commission presented three new revenue sources for the new EU MFF, including this plastic levy, the ETS-based levy and then the Common Corporate Tax Base. Of all these, Finland had discussions with the Member States when we were the EU presidency, and we ourselves came to the conclusion that this plastic fee received the most support. And it is now that this has been included in this Commission proposal for the future financial framework period, which means that the work done by Finland has produced results and one new own resource may already be introduced in the coming financial framework period. But all these others – when we have discussed the different new sources of EU tax revenue, digital tax or other – will remain for discussion in the coming years. During this future financial framework, it should be possible to agree whether the EU will mobilise such new own resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u48	Mr President! Although this package is huge and certainly deserves a very critical assessment, I still find it confusing to paint such a black boogeyman out of it. For example, the Confederation of Finnish Industries stated that without strong joint action, the EU will not recover from the crisis and will be threatened with a long investment recession. It would be poison for Finland's exports, of which 60%, as Mr Hassi said, goes to the EU. Instead, it has created the impression that these decisions — when you consider where Finland will go in time — Finland would enter the federal state or Finland would break the bail-out rules and answer the debts of other countries. I would like an unequivocal answer: will Finland end up in a federal state? Is Finland responsible for the debts of other countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u49	Mr President! The debts of other countries, as a result of reckless economic policies, cannot be met by other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u50	Mr President! When you listened to Mr Tavio’s speech, you wondered why, in the corona crisis, support was being criticised when you yourself were ready for the EUR 86 billion Greece package — you and all the representatives of the Finnish People’s Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u54	Mr President! These EU-wide or even wider taxes, which affect globally, even though the air tax or the plastic tax that Finland is now promoting cannot, of course, be national issues, but must be international issues. They are now being negotiated, but, of course, with tax increases alone, this continent and continent will not rise, but we need to be genuinely competitive compared to other continents. As far as this support is concerned, it is essential that each country manages its own economic policy responsibly, and it is also important that there is no umbilical cord between states and banks. Finland, if anything, knows it through the hardest of all, when big reforms were made here in the '90s to banks as well. Unfortunately, this has still not been done everywhere and has not fully complied with the rules that have been agreed together. Therefore, rule-basedness is so central that when problems and anxiety arise, there would be no need to start a dispute over interpretations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u55	Mr President! The Commission has now presented its own proposal for a recovery fund, and it is clear that when Finland now adopts its own position, it will form it from its own national starting points for these negotiations. But it is equally clear that the national interest of Finland is that Europe recovers from this and because of the massive crisis that has now hit us, it is difficult to see that it would happen without European joint action. At the same time, even in this crisis, we must adhere to the principles that each country is responsible for its own economy and for its own debts. The Group of the Party of European Socialists sees that we must now be able to influence this package and correct it. I would like to make three proposals: firstly, one is that we must be able to allocate this significantly to the focus of the loan on aid. Secondly, the aid must be conditional, transparent. It must be subject to control and must also have an obligation to put the economy in order. Thirdly, we must also look after Finland's own access, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u56	Mr President! It is quite clear that if things like this — parliamentary budgetary sovereignty, conditionality, precision — do not happen, then Finland cannot be on the way, and that is why they are the starting points for which we have been working all the time. Before the Commission even presented its own package, Finland has always stressed that we value the focus of the loan. Now that there are new elements to this in the fact that big grants are also being made, it may be that... In the case of grants for science and research or regional development, even through existing programmes, there are always conditions. This is the only way to start a big, big negotiation on the direction in which Finland will be able to improve this package. But Parliament's budgetary sovereignty, the strictness, are one of the things that Finland cannot accept without, so on the basis of them we work in accordance with the Finnish Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u57	Thank you. I believe that this issue will be discussed many more times. — I would like to give two more answers: Mr Lepomäki and then Mr Junnila, the author of the original question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u58	Mr President! You ministers have said that you have had discussions with our peer countries, our partners, and you have had conditions before the Commission's proposal. Would it be reasonable to ask that you publish them and also tell them in good time in advance that such a wide-ranging debate can take place in Finland? Or could it be that perhaps the reason why you have no longer cooperated with the Hansa Group is that Finland is about to become a country of weak economic policy? Mr Kulmuni spoke in favour of the countries being responsible for their own economic policies and making the necessary structural reforms. However, it is true that Finland, or rather the Marin government, has not been in any hurry to make any reforms of any kind. This year the deficit will be EUR 20 billion, and from now on it will be EUR 10 billion every year, even though the deficit in these countries will turn into a surplus in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u59	Mr President! Due to the interest rate crisis, Finland will be in very high debt this year, that is true.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u64	Mr President! In this debt package, Finland would be responsible for the debts of other countries and, in particular, the commitments of German and French financial institutions to Italy and Spain, even though Mr Arhinmäki claims otherwise. Minister Tuppurainen replied that Finland influences God knows what tables and interests are being driven everywhere and well run. That is why I ask Minister Kulmun: is it true that on 9 April the Minister did not demand the conditionality required by the Constitutional Committee, but then adopted the decision of the Eurogroup to abolish the conditionality of loans? Furthermore, I would ask Mr Tuppuri: how do you think the negotiations have progressed if the intention was to obtain a loan-oriented package containing conditions and consideration? Now, however, two thirds of it is pure gift money, EUR 500 billion, without conditions, without consideration, and in such a way that when other countries do, Finland will pay, and soon will pay a little more as taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u65	Mr President! After all, Finland's policy of influence on the EU is quite open. That position will always come to Parliament, and that position will be influenced by the opposition in the committees. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has dealt on two occasions with the matter to which Mr Junnila referred here — the conditionality of the European Stability Mechanism — and the great committee has given me the position when I have gone to Finland to represent it, so that we have that influence in advance — we have that position in advance. Of all the positions, you can read that Finland has always supported conditional solutions, Finland has supported loan-oriented solutions, precision, budgetary sovereignty. Those positions are completely transparent, readable on the website of a large committee and in line with the interpretation of the Constitution, and we will act on them. It is great that in Finland it is pre-emptive through Parliament and not ex-post, as is the case in many countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u66	Mr President! Mr Junnila, Finland's European policy is based on the fact that we best deal with Finland's interests by acting openly and constructively and taking forward our own performances without knocking things down as if with four- limb braking at the door. You get things through when you negotiate them together. In these preliminary discussions, Finland pointed out that, in our view, it would be better for everyone that this recovery package should become more loan-oriented. Now we have received the Commission's proposal for this, but this is only the Commission's proposal, and now the real negotiations are starting. They will take place at the European Council under the leadership of the President of the European Council, Charles Michel. There the Prime Minister of Finland, Sanna Marin, represents Finland on the basis of a mandate from the Parliament and then decides what kind of outcome is best for Finland. We're not going there unconditionally. One of the conditions that has not yet been mentioned is the rule of law. It is included in the Commission's proposal, and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u67	Next question, Mr. Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u68	Mr President! Stability is also the foundation of a healthy economy and a welfare society. The previous Prime Minister and the current Prime Minister have clearly expressed their views on some basic solutions to Finland’s security — I am referring to the acquisition of destroyers. But now there is an unfortunate amount of debate that creates uncertainty around the issue – despite the fact that the study groups, the reporting groups and the government programme as documents give a completely different indication of how Finland should move forward in these matters – even at the level of the chairmen of the parliamentary groups, which is quite extraordinary: they are the key bearers of responsibility for the whole matter. It is, however, a question of whether we will be able to defend ourselves in order to ensure the basis for our own country's affairs tomorrow too. I ask the Prime Minister, Minister Kulmun, whether it has been agreed in the course of the government negotiations that some parties have different freedoms in relation to some basic matters,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u69	Mr President! It is quite clear that when Finland’s economic situation has changed with the corona virus, we will have to adjust the government programme from a number of different economic points of view. That is quite clear. But then there are certain parliamentary arguments that Mrs Kanerva has read well here, and one of them certainly relates to Finland's security and overall defence. As I understand it, during the recession of the 1990s, it was possible to carry out the previous large-scale fighter acquisitions, even though the economic recession was large, and yes, when the previous Parliament has already outlined the issues across party lines, it is quite clear that efforts are being made to promote them. When it comes to procurement, which affects the 2060s, it cannot be thrown back and forth in any small way, but will be promoted in the interests of total Finnish security and defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u71	Mr President! One of the most important tasks of an independent state is to create stable and secure conditions for its citizens. It is, of course, particularly important for a wise foreign and security policy, but also for a credible defence force. Part of it is the operating Air Force. This is a major investment, of course, and it is understandable that there will also be a critical debate on it, but Finland cannot be without credible air forces. It is good to remember that no investment of this size is necessary for every parliamentary term or even every decade. This will make it up to the 2050s, up to the 2060s. There is a clear record of this in the Government Programme and it goes ahead, and I believe that the government and Parliament will be able to take the necessary decisions when the time comes. Congressman Kanerva, we're on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u72	Thank you. — I would now ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u73	Mr President! I shall continue to ask a little more about these demanding negotiations, to which the Prime Minister's deputy referred here: Will it make it easier for them to enter into negotiations with some of the key Finnish politicians in public to take the view that machinery and armaments must be obtained from one of the suppliers that is currently competing with one another? Does it make it easier for the government to negotiate, or does it make it more difficult? I want you to tell me clearly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u74	Mr President! This project must withstand open debate, even critical debate, and it will. It is equally important that this is an open and fair competition, and it is a project that is very much in keeping with the fact that competition is fair. However, we have quite a broad parliamentary consensus that the project will be carried out. The last Parliament has already outlined this, on the basis of which preparations have been continued, and the current government is taking it forward, and I also appreciate the fact that the opposition has shown understanding for this project. Big investments of this kind cannot be government-opposition issues; a broad consensus on these issues is needed. This project is going very well at the moment. Final invitations to tender will be sent at the end of the year, and the Government will take a decision on this in the course of next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u75	Mr President! This discussion on the replacement of the Hornets has already taken place throughout the last parliamentary term between all the parties and the committees to a very large extent, and that consensus has been almost unanimous, with the exception of the left. In that sense, although we now have this kind of financial crisis on top, it is very understandable that, however, the Defence Forces must renew their equipment from those critical, essential points, such as the Air Force, as originally planned. Now that this funding is being considered, if it is about EUR 10 billion, will we be able to replace its performance if this price may not be met by what we have applied for? After all, we have here the primary purpose of improving our ability to perform, rather than the number of fighters. Has the Ministry of Defence considered how to maintain these budgetary frameworks so that we can fully replace its performance?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u76	This has, of course, been evaluated by the Defence Administration for many years. However, the estimate at the moment is that on that roof of ten billion dollars this can be achieved, to replace the current Hornets in full. After all, the Hornets are virtually old between 2025 and 2030, which means that they can fly until then, but then they reach the end of their life. That is why this investment is justified next year, and the new machinery, whatever it is, will gradually start to replace these old Hornets with a delay of a few years. In addition, of course, investments in other defence branches are needed in the normal way, but investments of the same scale are not needed elsewhere. In addition, attention must be paid to, for example, operating costs, annual operating costs, life-cycle costs. But all of these are involved in this competition, including industrial cooperation with the home country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u77	Mr President! Over the decades, Finland has built itself a reputation in the field of international defence cooperation. We are known as an active and cooperative defence player with a credible national defence. We are working with both the EU and NATO. Cooperation with the Nordic countries, especially Sweden, is an integral part of Finland’s international defence cooperation. Now the contempt and questioning of the HX fighter project seriously and strongly undermines Finland's credibility as an international defence partner. So I ask Minister of Defence Kaikkonen: what is the government going to do about Finland's reputation and credibility as an international defence partner not falling apart?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u78	Thank you for the question. After all, these fighter acquisitions are carried out in many other countries. I think we are closer to 20 European countries where old fighters will be replaced in the near future or now. There is no doubt that there is also a critical debate in many other countries. Quite unanimous decisions are hardly taken anywhere, and, as I said, this must be endured. I have met colleagues from different countries and there has now been no concern about this project because of the Finnish political debate. They are confident that Finland will be able to take the necessary decisions in the same way as originally planned.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u79	Mr President! Without mentioning the name, the representatives of Kanerva and Pelkonen at least clearly referred to me, and of course I can take it as a compliment if my political policies are so strong that they undermine the entire Finnish defence. But despite this, I find it rather extraordinary the view of the Assembly that there could not be a critical public debate on the biggest and most expensive procurement in the history of Finland. Up until now, I have always thought that the coalition is in favour of democracy and open debate, where different views can be expressed. We have always pointed out that we are critical of quantity, price and life-cycle costs. These must be open and discussed, and this is what we have been saying all along. Has it happened, Minister of Defence Kaikkonen, that the coalition is nervous because, according to polls, the majority of the Finnish people's view
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u81	Mr President! It is healthy to have a critical and open debate on the use and priorities of public money. However, I am a little confused that even if the Left wants to postpone an investment of 10 billion in defence, it does not seem to have much to say that Finland should invest the same amount in support of banks in other EU countries and in Germany and France.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u82	Mr President! I am sure that the Minister of Education here in Question Time will answer this part of the question of compulsory education,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u83	Mr President! Indeed, Finland is a country where there can be an open, critical debate on various issues, whether it concerns the acquisition of HX, the EU support package or, for example, the extension of compulsory education, and that is a good thing. I would like to return to this HX acquisition in that, although it is understandable to have this debate, I believe that this corona crisis has taught us many lessons that need to be maintained and learned. Firstly, as Mrs Kanerva has already said, we have indeed seen that the economy, health and safety are closely linked. Secondly, Finland is not protected from any crisis. We are not, as it were, in any shelter or Teflon that would protect us from potential new threats. It is precisely for this reason that it is important for this HX project also to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u84	Mr President! Of course, from one's own point of view. Finland is a non-military country, and that also means that we must take care of our own defence. There are many lessons to be learned from this corona. When it came to this kind of international crisis, it was discovered that the masquerade hit us and at the same time many other countries around the world. It was impossible to get masks from the world, at least suddenly, at least good quality very quickly, and I think there is still little to do with this. We are not currently threatened by a military crisis, but can we say with certainty for ten years to come that there will be no problem in this regard? If it should happen, ladies and gentlemen, it will be very difficult to go out there and get military material from the world. It's too late at that point. These things need to be sorted out in time. A wise man prepares for anything. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u85	Thank you. — Mr Kanerva as the author of the original question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u86	Mr President! I would like to see a common record here, recorded unanimously, which the government has also committed itself to as a result of a broad parliamentary debate process, and that the separations within the government would also be found impossible,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u89	Mr President! As the long-standing parliamentarian, Mr Kanerva, well knows, government cooperation is, of course, always a matter of compliance with the government programme, and the things that are being carried out there together are being recorded. Among them, for example, this acquisition of fighters is one which is certainly still so important not only in economic terms but also, of course, in terms of defence and security that it is not worth politicising, but must really give a broad sense of the security of the fatherland. It is clear that the parties have different priorities and exits and views, of course, but the government is following the issues in the Government Programme, and then the representatives are working for them — and especially in this fighter procurement — across the Government — the opposition limits, because it is absolutely central to Finland's security and the country of origin, that we have a good defence and credible defence in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u90	Mr President! I would add that, when there is indeed some suggestion that there should be some form of saving away from this acquisition now, for example, five years ahead, I would say the opposite. The Hornets really come to the end of their lifetime. Technology's getting old, metal's getting tired, performance's dropping. If these old Hornets were to be extended for years, more money — not less but more money — should be put into them, and then we would be faced with this investment. It makes more sense to implement it in accordance with the planned timetable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u91	These issues were shrunk today to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u92	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Kulmuni, please present yourself.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u96	Mr President! In this situation, this increase in the borrowing power of sovereign debt is routine in the sense that it is necessary when we know that that ceiling is approaching. Since the financial crisis in 2008, central government debt has grown at a very high pace, almost double. The bright spot was that reign of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä’s accurate economy, when one year, in 2018, it was even possible to shorten central government debt for a long time. This situation in which we are now — we have had to do more debt — is not because of government or economic policy, but because of an extra-economic factor, a factor for which no one of us has been able to do anything. The government has, of course, been forced to increase its sovereign debt in this situation. Of course, it has to be wondered that in the last two months, a group known as the Economic Party has, in every case, proposed an even greater level of government debt. That's what the Minister said. In fact, my corner said in that oral Question Time. That, of course, has been a great surprise to us here. It is now a little easier for Finland to even be paid for debt-taking, and in that sense this increased debt share has no direct budgetary impact at all. Of course, we must try to revitalise our economy now that we are dealing with this worst crisis. This economic revival means that if we are to achieve growth and improve employment, we cannot, of course, go down the road of tax increases and spending cuts, but we must strive for structural reforms. There is a need to improve the amount of work and the productivity of work — to increase the amount of work and increase productivity — and there are, of course, many ways in which I believe this government will be able to do so. The most important thing is, of course, the reform of the health measure which is a little on the horizon, which is finally being implemented, but, of course, we need social security reform and, above all, labour market reform, to which I believe the trade union movement is also in favour when it is negotiated in such a way as to take due account of the views of the various parties involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u97	Mr President! According to the Constitution, government borrowing must be based on the consent of Parliament, and that is why we are now discussing this government proposal to change the Government's mandate for borrowing. Mr Kiviranta made it very clear how we have now, together and unitedly, accepted that we have had to take out a very substantial amount of more loans as a state, but we have had no other choice in this situation. According to the Ministry of Finance forecast, Finland's total output will decrease by around 5.5 per cent this year, and if we do not take the right measures, this will cause a so-called wedgeboard, i.e. when economic development goes down, then unemployment and benefit expenditure will rise, and when unemployment rises, tax revenues will go down. It is absolutely essential, as Mr Kiviranta has rightly pointed out, that we are already at this stage in dealing with this acute corona crisis, mentally prepared and prepared to undertake structural reforms, such as social welfare reform and social security reform, which are one of the main objectives of which is that we can continue to secure basic services for our citizens and that Finland should continue to be the country in which to live the happiest people in the world. It must be remembered that the debt is a brother when you take up the brother but when you pay the nephew and that the worst part of the debt is the taxation of our children, because at some point those debts have to be paid, and we have to leave Finland to our children in such a condition that they can live in the country where it is good to live. Mr President! Today, we have been talking about the EU and European cooperation, and I think it is absolutely important that we support and promote European cooperation, but I am very pleased with the attention that the Minister for Finance, Mr Kulmuni, pointed out, among other things, that Finland must insist that every EU country should be responsible for its own economic policy and its own debts. That is why we need to be critical of this proposal from the EU Commission, and we need to have a common vision and a common package in Europe that Finland can then commit to.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u98	Mr President! Now that the previous speaker has decided on this subject, I will continue to say exactly that I agree. The principle that everyone is responsible for their own debts is still very well-founded and responsible and, in my view, it should be the case that this package of support for the European Union, which is now being presented, calls for corrections. It must be corrected and, of course, it should not be accepted as it is. President! In my view, this increase in the borrowing mandate in this situation is entirely justified. All the time, however, the solution to the regrettable interest rate crisis in the economic policy sense has been based on the important point of view that we are now going to go ahead with health and now we are going ahead with the point of view that in this situation, in the acute situation here and now, we are securing jobs in Finland, we are preventing bankruptcies, we are taking care of people, we are taking care of people's livelihoods. And that requires such an economic policy as this one, and it has now been implemented with a number of amending budgets. It is important that we get a fourth amending budget, which also looks at these recovery measures. In the autumn there is reason to look to the future, as the government intends. And here I would like to underline this paper by the four financial wisest in Vipriälä, a highly respected financial wisdom, which specifically assumes that the right angle is not to go into cutting policy here and now, but to adapt the economy, even by the most difficult means, perhaps, only in a longer time span. This must be done by 2030 and it must be explicitly assumed that we now need the means to create sustainable growth. I think it was important, among other things, that this paper by the four wise men of Vipriälä took a clear position in favour of, for example, compulsory education, raising its age, because it was seen as a significant investment in the future and an act for the benefit of Finnish young people and for their future. Let us take these lessons so to speak — I think that is the right direction, and that is what the government has indicated its intention to do. In this respect, President, I believe that we are in a difficult situation where we should not underestimate the fact that we are in debt. However, in view of what the situation could be, we are in a relatively good basic setting. This is the National Coalition...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u99	Mr President! It is easy to continue with this praiseworthy speech by Mr Viitanen that this is a somewhat different situation in a certain way when there are tough proposals for additional expenditure from the assembly. Otherwise, we will be talking here in Question Time or elsewhere, there will be a full and critical Chamber, but when the right proposal comes in which the mandate is now being presented, the opposition will not be so interested in it, which in itself is extraordinary. As has been said here in the Government's proposal, we have significant capital responsibilities, especially to international financial institutions, and I would like to point out to the Finns — who are obviously not interested in this debate, because there are no Finns in the House — that when they claimed in Question Time — Mr Junnila said it — that Minister Kulmuni would not have demanded 9.4. in the euro group I would have liked to have heard from him what this information is based on. It is very closely related to this issue which we are now dealing with. We have been told that this proper conditionality has been respected as it should be. However, the great committee has been well kept informed and Mr Kulmun has also been consulted and, subsequently, Mr Marin has also been consulted on this matter and, in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down by the Constitutional Committee, has also been acted upon. In other words, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance and also the Prime Minister for being very careful about the interests of Finland, and there is no reason to doubt that something else has been done, as Mr Junnila said earlier in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u100	Mr. Speaker! I have to wonder now about the enthusiasm of the representatives of the government parties for the battering opposition. If you, Mr Viitanen, were to use all that energy to make this country’s economy rise, there would certainly be some result. But the respected representative is concentrating all his energies and efforts on beating up the opposition instead of proposing solutions. We have not heard them yet, but perhaps we will hear them later, Mr President. Mr. Speaker! Of course, it is true that government debt is growing and public debt is growing strongly as a result of this crisis. After all, we have certainly put forward measures to overcome this deepest crisis in order to save jobs and businesses. Of course, it is important that these efforts are now being made in order to mitigate the effects of this crisis. But then, Mr President, it is important that the economy of this country be put in order, and then, of course, we turn to the government and to the forthcoming budget debate. Here the representatives of the government parties are now talking briskly about these structural reforms, but let us remember, however, that your government programme has been built on top of nothing: spending will be increased by billions, but there is no record of revenue. We have been asking questions about employment measures throughout the year in this Chamber, we have not seen them, we have not heard them, and now they have been moved to that autumn — we will see whether they will still be there then. In other words, Mr President, I think it is perhaps a bit falsifying to go off to the opposition in this way, since the line of your economic policy has been built on nonsense in this way. Mr. Speaker! Of course, these measures are needed because, according to VM's latest forecast, if we move forward on this line, in 2023 public net lending will still be close to 4% of GDP — we are talking about the size of around 10 billion. So there's a lot of work to be done here. But, in fact, perhaps now quite briefly on this matter itself: I think that in dealing with the acute phase of this crisis, we are very much in agreement that this must now be done vigorously together. But I think that after that, the way forward, there will be differences, for if we look at the Greens report, it is far too long a time for us to start doing this economic adjustment from 23 years onwards. We must start this work immediately, and that is where employment and competitiveness and the abolition of these new expenditure increases will go a long way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u101	Mr. Speaker! However, the fact that Finland is now able to absorb debt in the midst of the crisis is based on the fact that in normal times, for example during the last term of government and in previous years, Finland has maintained that efforts are being made to balance public finances. That's the idea that when things are taken care of in normal times, then the state can in the middle of a crisis like this take on debt, and it's totally acceptable, even though we all know that the debt will one day have to be repaid. They are quite small, small differences in this number of tens of billions, which has been in the opposition's presentations, so that it is not worth making a lot of noise now — unless they have happened in a bad place, Mr Kiviranta. But how from now on? About me. The Greens report cannot be read in such a way that the fact that adjustment measures start at the latest in 23 C.E. means that at the earliest then, but that the government must already prepare a package which first includes this rescue programme, then the orderly dismantling of the rescue package and the transition to economic activity, i.e. the subsidies will be driven down. At the same time, there is a need for stimulus measures to start up the economy, and in the next phase of structural reforms, the most important reforms to promote employment, because ultimately, there is nothing else that can be done in Finland for a sustainable economy and debt-taking management, except that we have a high employment rate. That is why I do not think that the government can now wait, once again, for the August budget line with new structural measures or employment measures, but I think that the government should start preparing them immediately. The working groups — or whatever they are — should come up with concrete proposals that go into preparation. The goal was 60,000 according to the government program; it is far away. In addition, unfortunately, with the interest rate, we will have tens of thousands more unemployed — hopefully tens of thousands, not hundreds of thousands. We need those employment measures now, do them. Everything that is now being done for employment and growth will reduce the terrible pain when it begins to adapt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u102	Mr. Speaker! I understand that Mr Orpo has not allowed Mr Heino and Mr Zyskowicz to come here today to discuss this, because the line of increase in expenditure and the reduction in revenue that they have proposed in the context of the additional budget would mean that it would be logical for us to make an increase of at least 20 billion here in terms of borrowing powers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u105	Mr President! As has been said, the debt is the brother when you take it, the nephew when you pay it. But with regard to this interest rate situation, Finland now has to take out a loan, and here the Government is now asking the Parliament to raise this borrowing power to 150 billion. There is talk of large sums of money, but even when it has been said that at the moment Finland receives a loan at zero interest rates and even at negative interest rates, why not take it, just to keep Finland healthy and then to keep companies up. In this context, I too would like to comment on this debt, which now relates to these EU funds and to this EU activity. I think every country is responsible for its own debts. I hope that this recovery package, which is now the Commission's proposal, will also be achieved in such a way that it will have a much greater loan-oriented share than it is at present, and that Finland's recovery from it would be more significant so that we could also revitalize the business that we are currently in decline. Of course, we must also ensure that Finland's exports go ahead, and that also means that demand in the EU is increasing. I hope that this stimulus package will make significant progress under the conditions that are important to Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u106	Mr President! We are now continuing the debate on what was already taking place during that Question Time when we were talking about recovery programmes at European Union level and the huge borrowing powers that are being gradually built up there, about borrowing programmes. Now we are talking about the Finnish level, and it is good to have this debate. We all know that a stable economy, a sustainable economy, is based on the fact that there is no reckless borrowing of debt, and it is in this respect that Finland has acted in an exemplary manner internationally, and now, of course, we are comparing this above all with the countries of the Union. But the other way around is that we should not make debt-taking something that we are simply assessing public finances and their functioning from this level of debt or indebtedness onwards. We must assess public finances as a whole and also look at the overall development of society as to what it means to raise debt if it has clear positive effects on economic growth, for example, and in general strengthening factors related to the real competitiveness of society. It is good to remember that this net debt ratio is not alarming in Finland at the moment, however. It has told us about good financial management, which is why we also get cheap loans on the international market much easier than many other countries. We have been able to meet the EMU criteria far into these years among a few EU countries — Estonia, Luxembourg and Finland have been those who have met the EMU criteria. And taking into account, as a whole, statutory pension funds, which, according to OECD statistics, are the largest in the world in Finland — not in relation to the national product in any country — are as large as in Finland — we have a certain resource that tells us that the economy has been well managed. That is what has been pointed out in all these debates today, in the heavy speeches, that now that we are talking about this debt and also about these borrowing powers, which are on the table in this proposal, we are talking about a genuine crisis situation, a completely exceptional crisis situation that needs to be overcome. Public finances must come to this now to help society as a whole to overcome this crisis, and then the normal economic policy debate on what is a reasonable level of debt and how it is worth maintaining balance in public finances does not apply in this context, and it must be seen in relation to the European debate and in relation to the Finnish debate. What is essential, of course, is what the money is spent on. If it is only used to cover the general budget without a clear consideration of the appropriateness of the budget, it must be critical, but as has been pointed out here,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u107	Thank you. — I note that there are five minutes left in advance and there are five speeches, and then this matter will be referred to the House after the other matters of the day.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u108	Mr President! I'll be quick. — I asked for this speech, mainly because it would not leave us with the wrong idea. In my opinion, I have very often thanked the opposition this spring for the fact that we have managed this crisis in a reasonable way together, and yes, especially in the early part-session, the coalition also said very much that the government is doing this well and in a credible way. I believe that, in this situation, when we have such a national and international crisis and an unfortunate global crisis, it is important for us to be able to move things forward together as well. This has happened. President! It does not eliminate the fact that, when the opposition is sure to start criticising the government in accordance with its mandate, for example, as regards economic policy choices, it must also be possible to say the second word at that stage. Of course, I believe that the Assembly must also remember its own proposals in this respect. I looked only at the proposed amendments to the amending budget this week, which certainly contains several hundred million additional resources — not to mention the previous amending budgets, many hundred million, and indeed, before Christmas, a billion. That, of course, confuses us, President, of course, while, at the same time, a representative is on television and is very critical of the government's debt. That was what I said. All in all, I believe that many things have been achieved together this spring, and I think that this is also important to say.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u109	Mr President! I was wondering if I could talk about what I was thinking about, because this place I'm talking to is very public, but I'm going to say what I was going to say. There is also the possibility of positive development here, if everything is right. Of course, the first and most important thing is that this corona crisis should be resolved and that this vaccine should be brought forward. Then a big, positive fundamental factor here is, of course, the lack of budgetary impact of sovereign debt, i.e. additional debt even has a positive impact on the state budget at the moment. In other words, at this very moment, it is not worth so much to fear that some cuts in expenditure or tax increases will be carried out immediately to kill the economic potential. That would not be wise in any sense in this situation. While appropriate structural reforms — social reform, social reform and labour market and labour market reforms — are still being made, this development can be very good in the next few years, also thanks to these huge fiscal and monetary stimulus measures which are taking place worldwide and which are unprecedented. In addition, I believe that companies and entrepreneurs will behave in a slightly different way in the future. Investment calculations will be made more closely and will also aim at greater productivity through all means. It is also an important factor in improving labour productivity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u110	Now that no more than 30 minutes has passed, the debate and the proceedings will be suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u111	We will now resume the debate on the third item which has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u112	Mr President! It is a pity that Mr Viitanen and Mr Koskinen are no longer here. I would just like to say this to them. Of course, they can read it in the minutes. They referred, for example, to our alternative budget and its proposals on tax reduction. Our alternative budget was a whole. It was built with great care, it used Parliament's information service, and they estimated it as a whole so that the employment measures that were at the bottom of it would create so many new jobs that it enabled us to make a tax reduction of EUR 1 billion in earnings as part of that package. That package was in balance and I can still stand up for it. What they should read about it too, when they will, in time, be sure to get it, is that the employment measures are actually there. According to the estimate at the time, they would have produced some 60,000 new jobs. If those measures had been taken then, they were started, then Finland’s readiness to face this corona crisis now would have been quite different. With that in mind, the government should now proceed quickly with the work already begun in the Prime Minister's time and under Mr Haraka's leadership in seeking these employment measures. It cannot be postponed to the forthcoming budget debate, so that something will be launched or planned, but that clear measures should be prepared which can be decided there and from which legislative projects will start. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u113	Mr. Speaker! Finally, even though Mr Viitanen has left, it is as if he were still criticising the functioning of the coalition and the economic policy stance during this crisis. It is now important to distinguish between two things. However, we have also commended the government for dealing with this acute crisis, especially this epidemic, but what we have paid attention to is how this government has handled this economic crisis. The measures have come after us, there have been contradictions between these measures, and then we have put forward new measures and also corrections. In this respect, it is important to distinguish between these short-term crisis measures and, accordingly, the longer-term management of public finances. Now that we are moving forward, the government has an important place in the budget debate to start making these decisions. As has been said here before, employment measures have now been moved forward all the time, first from the spring spending limits debate to that. It is important to make sure that these decisions are actually taken in the autumn, because it will take time to prepare them, and it will also take time for them to take action, so that in fact they are already very busy, and in this respect the message to the government is quite clear. Mr. Speaker! To conclude, it is also important for the government to withdraw these irresponsible expenditure increases that have been made to the government programme and therefore to ensure the sustainability of public finances, because in the coming years, when this crisis is over, we will in any case have a huge task ahead of us in adjusting our country's economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u114	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u115	Mr President! The Government's proposal to Parliament to extend to certain temporary provisions relating to the collection of taxes this spring as an interest rate measure already dealt with earlier in this Parliament. The payment scheme is proposed to be extended to VAT due and paid at the beginning of the year. In addition, the credited payment arrangement and the deferred payment would be revised in such a way that tax refunds would be paid to taxable persons instead of offsetting tax debts if there were no other obstacles to repayment. The Government also proposes a temporary reduction of the interest rate and the reference rate to 3% in the case of taxes under the reduced payment scheme. The extension and completion of the reduced payment scheme will help to alleviate the situation of firms in serious difficulties as a result of the crisis. In practice, the most difficult problems concern small and medium-sized enterprises. The introduction of liquidity-enhancing measures can help companies overcome the crisis and thus avoid bankruptcy. Mr President! There has been a need for reductions in tax deferrals. By yesterday, 22,700 requests for payment arrangements were pending. The amount of the tax they are subject to is approximately EUR 658 million. Since Tuesday of this week, 600 of these applications are currently pending in addition to the above figures. At a practical level, a company under the calendar month procedure will be able to recover VAT from November, December and January as a result of the new regulation. For companies applying the quarterly calendar year procedure, the corresponding period would be the last quarter of the calendar year 2019 for which taxes would be charged. For the sake of equity, companies in calendar year procedures would be able to repay a tax amount equivalent to one quarter of the taxes to be accounted for in 2019. The Government proposes a 3 % interest rate on late payments for the tax part of the reduced payment scheme. In these circumstances, the interest rate may be considered reasonable, given that the payment arrangement is easily and quickly feasible and does not require collateral to be received. I would remind you that the relief scheme is intended for companies suffering from temporary difficulties in payment. Lowering the default rate by 3 % could lead to non-temporary firms using the payment mechanism as a means of financing rather than other financial instruments available. This would result in significant tax revenue losses. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank Parliament at this stage for the prompt handling of the interest rate measures. Work on the law has also been carried out in a timely manner. First, we took action that was quickly put in place. Now we will be able to complete these rapid measures once we have the information systems in place. These measures will help companies to cope with this corona crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u116	Mr President! This government proposal aims to improve the situation of companies in major financial difficulties as a result of the corona pandemic. This is a special type of tax-paying arrangement when the value-added tax paid in the early part of the year, January-March,is refunded again. In other words, the Tax Administration would return them to the taxpayer, and then a payment scheme would be set up under which, in a period of 24 months, these taxable persons would pay these refunded VAT back to the Tax Administration. It is clear that there will certainly be many in these companies who will never pay them back, but this will certainly have a positive impact on the running of economic wheels in this situation. It is good that different tax liability groups have also been taken into account. Account has been taken of those in the calendar month procedure — they can receive this VAT refund from November and December 2019 and from January 2020. Persons in the quarterly procedure may receive VAT refund from the last quarter of 2019. Then, even those under the calendar year procedure, such as primary producers, may receive a quarter of the tax accounted for in 2019 in the form of a refund. But all of this is true that what is now being repaid must be repaid at an interest rate of 3%. This 3% rate is, of course, a clear improvement on the 4% interest rate in the previous proposal, and I understand that it concerns these tax arrangements in general, i.e. the 3% rate. After all, the Finns of Peru are calling for a 4% drop to 3.5 percent, but the government went further here. The Group of the European People's Party and the Christian Democrats did do nothing at the time, but there was already some of that so-called dish taste in that proposal, because it would have encouraged all those who did not need such an arrangement to pay their taxes. All in all, this 3% interest rate is relatively high, given that it is also non-deductible in income tax. In other words, the real interest rate would be higher if the financial institution were taken over.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u117	Mr President! This proposal is absolutely necessary, and it is good that the government has now also provided a means to help companies in difficulty in an unreasonable situation and to prevent bankruptcies and thus to support all in all Finnish employment. So this in itself is one thing in this multiplicity of tools. Many different ways of supporting businesses have been made, and this is one of them, and of course I think it is important that we note that it is not even the last, but that we are still waiting for a general subsidy proposal to be drawn up for companies. I also think it is important that we put this issue of unemployment security in place for entrepreneurs, because I do think that many small entrepreneurs are in real distress at the moment, and that is why it is necessary to make things easier for them at all costs. So this is an important objective: we are making tax-paying arrangements more flexible, President, as one of these means. Then, as I said, the company can claim back VAT paid at the beginning of the year as a tax debt, and I think this is all right and justifiable. All in all, these VAT payments amount to 8.6 billion — we are talking about large sums. We do not yet know how widely this will be used, but it certainly makes sense to have this particular element of interest involved, and I believe that this 3% can be reasonably good. Of course, in the tax section, as always, we will go over these arguments, why it is just 3 and whether it is appropriate, but I believe so. This same proposal, President, also addresses the previous government proposal on which we, in the tax section, made a contribution to these temporary payment arrangements, which then proposed the calculation of interest from seven to four. We had some doubts as to whether this was right or not, and then we made a statement that when we know more soon, the government might consider whether this 4 is right or could be lower. Now the interest rate of this arrangement is also calculated at 3 and, in that respect, the measure is very uniform in terms of the greetings that the entire tax section and hence the Committee on Finance and Parliament sent to the Government here. With these words, Mr President. It was nice that the Minister thanked Parliament for its prompt handling. It is important to us when there are corona proposals that we also get them through this house quickly and they take precedence over others. In this case, too, we have already agreed in the tax section that, as this is a clear emergency, due to the interest rate situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u118	Mr. Speaker! Thank you to the Minister for the presentation of the matter and for the fact that it has now been brought to the debate in Parliament. This has been the subject of debate in Parliament for quite a long time this spring, and it is, of course, wonderful that the Minister has addressed this issue. Mr. Speaker! I would like to raise a few points about this performance itself. Of course, the main point is precisely this interest rate, which now applies to this facilitated payment arrangement. Although Mr Viitanen has rightly and constructively said to me that the situation of entrepreneurs in itself, that genuinely feedback from the field has, however, been quite stunning in this regard. In other words, if we are talking about the huge number of companies that have been in an acute cash crisis, which have been waiting and hoping specifically that this VAT refund will enable them to get support and help in their own situation, then it has been quite an outrage when this proposal then proposes this 3% interest rate on delay. Mr. Speaker! On the one hand, I understand these arguments of the government, which have been put forward here, but, in my view, in this situation, when it comes to times of crisis, and also when it comes to the circumstances in which this legislation is now being laid down, all the arguments are in favour of the fact that this arrangement could also be non-interest-bearing, which would provide even more support and security for these entrepreneurs, who are currently in need. We know that according to the Bank of Finland statistics, the average interest rate on new business loans was less than 2 per cent in March 2020. It is also good to remember that the interest rate is quite high in relation to it. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister: are you still telling and justifying — while I believe that you have also received a lot of feedback from entrepreneurs and people from the field — why have you come to this solution and have not made this proposal even more effective in providing support to these entrepreneurs who really need it? As far as I am concerned, I am pleased that the performance has come into the house. Of course, we would have liked to have been much earlier, but it is good that we are now in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u119	Mr President! In this corona crisis, the strength of Finland and Finns has also been highlighted by the fact that we have been able to work together to make quite creative solutions to support and survive our business life and people. A number of different forms of support have been developed for companies and are still on the way. This VAT refund is one part of this package. I believe that, when we talked earlier in this debate about how we can get out of this crisis and get out of it financially, we will certainly be able to manage in this way through creativity. But that requires that we can work together to make decisions, regardless of who put them forward in the first place. This refund or refund of VAT, which is what you now want to call it, has become a lot of feedback from entrepreneurs. There have also been many positive assessments of the fact that this government proposal will make things easier for many companies, and many entrepreneurs have commended this. I would also like to thank the government for having this proposal now before us, and I hope that it will make rapid progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u120	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mr Marttinen for taking up this proposal on VAT refunds, but also for raising the challenge. In other words, when a company is struggling in a cash crisis and many companies are already in debt and there is a lot of loans, even though business as such has been quite successful, then the fact that VAT comes into the cash register, as it were, does not, however, provide the security to be able to pay them back in the future with interest. That is why I would have liked it to be possible here to consider a lower or even zero interest rate, which would, however, be a question of lending to the cashier, but would not create more costs for the company. However, it is well known at the moment, as Mr Marttinen has pointed out, that interest rates in general are very low and there is no prospect now, at least not in the near future, that they are going to rise strongly, so from that point of view it would also be very justified. Mr President! There was a lot of talk in the previous debate about the fact that, in this situation, we are going to be in debt, and that is how it is. There is absolutely no objection to this, for it is absolutely necessary for us to be able to support our companies now and also to individualise beyond this crisis. However, the problems of the Finnish economy have not arisen during this corona crisis, which only makes them more difficult. And since we have not been able to fully resolve them in the past, for example, the inflexibility of our labour market, these reforms are even more urgent now in this situation. I therefore hope that, at a time when Finland is temporarily taking on a significant amount of debt, like many other countries, at the same time, we will focus on how we are reforming our economy and the structures of our society in general, so that we can recover from this crisis and as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u121	Mr President! It has been the position of the True Finns that in order to bring about the desired effects, the interest rate should be reduced as low as possible without opening up a risk-free and low-interest or even interest-free credit channel for companies. It is therefore not up to the State to provide a low-interest loan to all companies, and the actual business support loans should be dealt with in other contexts. As early as 15 April in the Committee on Finance and Finance, the Finns proposed lowering this interest rate to 3.5%, but we were not in favour of lowering it to the level that Mr Marttinen mentioned earlier. In other words, the use of taxation as a means of solving the current problems is rather difficult and costly and also very difficult to target. This is a complex whole. However, referring to that speech by Mr Kiviranta, we are very pleased that this is happening. In mid-April, when this was voted on, the idea was not warmed up, but now the interest rate is being reduced. Thank you for taking this into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u122	Thank you. — And Mr Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u123	Mr President! I would also like, for my part, to thank you for having this motion here. This is very important, and I would argue that it is precisely when we are able to support companies in this situation by means of sensible, just-targeted measures, that it is one of the best targets at the moment for this debt money, which all these measures add that we are not going to have to take more. It is not just about entrepreneurs, it is about the tens of thousands of jobs in these companies. That is why this is so necessary. If we were to lose these businesses and the life - work that was done there, then we would permanently lose the jobs that are in these companies. That is why this is a common cause for the nation. Nor can there be a left-wing right-wing split or a government-opposition split, but that is precisely why both entrepreneurs, businesses and workers, employees, have the same interest that these things are being done, and that is why this is so commendable. This is also a good example of how the opposition can be influenced. We have made countless proposals available to the government, and each time we have said that they can be used, that they should be used, and here there is another one. It is not a matter of mockery on our part for the government that you did not invent yourself, but that we are pleased that these things can be done together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u126	Thank you. — Minister Kulmuni, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u127	Mr President! Thank you to Parliament for this debate and for your questions and feedback. When, at the beginning of the corona crisis, we began to act on how to support companies, how to build a system of direct support for the internal market — which proved to be quite complex in terms of parameters — we have not had such a system — it has taken time. In the same way, the tax administration systems are what we have had, and that is why the introduction of this bill here too — even extended by what Parliament has already had to deal with — has also called for the administrative obstacles to be overcome. Certainly, like the Members of Parliament here, the civil service has worked hard under these exceptional circumstances. However, as I pointed out in that presentation, our system is quite flexible compared to Sweden. This applies to us for several months, and the payment arrangement is such that it can also be repaid in several instalments. Sweden reduced its own interest rate to 2.5%, but their system is otherwise much stricter and in fact only applies to a few types of tax. As far as we are concerned, this applies to everyone that Mr Kiviranta has mentioned here. However, it is also up to the Minister of Finance to ensure that we receive tax revenue and tax revenue, since they then finance all those important interest payments and welfare services. The fact that this would be zero-taxed may sound like an attractive idea in the short term, but that would mean that the revenue collection and the ability of the State to pay would be jeopardised, and such a risk cannot be taken in these circumstances. Of course, it must be remembered that business credits are always secured — this is unsecured, and this is something that can be made available very quickly. The actions of the government that have been taken are diverse. Parliament still has a model of cost support, which is absolutely direct aid to the company. We have loan-oriented solutions, we have tax and payment arrangements. And when you look at the international comparison, yes, Finland has given — compared with Western European countries — a little more direct aid than average and we have a diverse repertoire of different forms of support. Of course, now that we are preparing for the autumn and are afraid of the second wave, it is important that we now have a wide range of means in place if the second wave in Finland can spread epidemiologically. But, of course, we are working to ensure that such a situation does not occur, and we will be well equipped and prepared for the autumn if the corona virus situation worsens further.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u128	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. I'm opening a conversation. — Minister Harakka, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u129	Mr President! The Government submits to Parliament a provision for the temporary amendment of Article 7 of the Act on the air traffic control fee. It is proposed to amend the Act so as to postpone the payment of supervisory fees for the July and October payment periods of 2020, both tranches, for a further six months. These are charges totalling EUR 5.7 million from the airport company to the Transport and Communications Agency. The law is intended to enter into force on 1 July this year and to be in force for about a year. The air traffic control fee is charged to the State for air safety oversight and public aviation management tasks. The government of Prime Minister Sanna Marin has taken urgent steps to ensure the functioning of society and to alleviate the plight of the economy and citizens during and from the epidemic. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the absence of any comments from interested parties, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty The revenue of the airport companies has fallen sharply due to the loss of customers, but the companies still have to cover their fixed costs. In order to facilitate the acute cash situation of airport companies, it is proposed to set a longer payment period for the payments of air traffic control fees at the end of 2020 and to reduce the pressure to increase the unit price of the fee for 2021. In other words, this is a twofold useful transfer: at the same time, the acute cash crisis at airports will be facilitated and Traficom's revenue flow will be smoothed out next year, otherwise there would be a large deficit after the collapse of the number of passengers in the previous period. The proposal relates to the State’s fourth draft amending budget for 2020 and is intended to be dealt with in connection with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u130	Mr President! The payment period for air traffic control charges should be postponed by the proposed half-years, as the revenues of the airport companies Finavia and the Saimaa Airport Foundation have fallen just like the number of passengers in Finnish air traffic as a result of the corona virus pandemic. Air transport is of great strategic importance to Finland and it is important to secure smooth air connections from Finland to the world and at home. It is therefore important that the State assists airport companies in the event of a crisis and facilitates the payment of air traffic control fees by providing more time for payment. It is, of course, still unclear at this stage how long a coronavirus pandemic will interfere with air transport. Of course, we all look forward to a rapid return to growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u131	Mr President! This is indeed an important and already desirable, expected proposal for air transport and, above all, for airport companies, and I would like to thank the Minister and the Government for having this before Parliament. This will thus facilitate the financial situation of the airport companies and the continuity of airport operations in the midst of the current epidemic of infectious diseases. The proposal is part of the recovery measures aimed at facilitating the functioning of society and the conditions of business and citizens during the corona crisis. As the revenues of the airport companies consist primarily of charges levied on air transport and passengers, the main source of revenue for the airport companies also ceased following the ‘covid-19’ epidemic. At the same time, however, companies have fixed costs and charges that they must pay anyway. One such key expense is these air traffic control charges, which are now being postponed for the remainder of the year 2020. The costs of air traffic control charges for airport companies would therefore shift to 2021, which is hopefully already a better revenue flow for the airlines. I see that this proposal is an excellent thing and an important relief for these airport companies. Mr President! As the Minister has said here, this is a matter of budgetary law, since air traffic control fees are revenue for the government. This proposal is therefore linked to the forthcoming fourth draft amending budget for 2020. The air traffic control fee is charged to the State for the purpose of air safety oversight and public aviation management tasks on an airport-by-air basis, depending on the number of passengers. As the number of passengers collapses, the supervisory fee revenue will also decrease. What is essential, however, is that a certain level of funding is required both now and in the future to safeguard the tasks of the authorities, and it is important to maintain this above all from the point of view of aviation safety. Mr President! In the Committee on Transport and Communications, we will take this motion quickly and appropriately.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u132	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. This law is quite often dealt with in Parliament and now, for quite legitimate reasons, this time in relation to this corona epidemic and its impact on air transport, and then in relation to the economic situation of airports. I believe, as the chairman of the committee has said here, that we will find a good agreement here between the government and the opposition, because we also have excellent cooperation in LiVi. Without further ado, I believe that this will be dealt with very quickly in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u133	Thank you. — Minister Harakka, a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-28-ps-82.u134	Thank you, Mr President. I won't take up your precious time very long. I would just like to say that good cooperation also works between the ministry and the committee, I believe, on this issue too, so that an agreement between the government's proposal and the committee's enlightened report can be found quickly. — Thank you very much.
