ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of one hour shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u2	Mr President! The seventh amending budget this year will increase the budget by EUR 1.5 billion. The measures now to be decided are almost entirely temporary and therefore will not permanently increase government expenditure. In the seventh draft amending budget for 2020, it is proposed to allocate funding specifically to the needs of the corona virus. Careful management of the interest rate crisis is a central part of the government's economic policy, and with its additional budget, the government is building a bridge over the crisis for businesses, municipalities and people alike. An additional 90 million is proposed for the purchase of Covid-19 vaccines. In addition, Finland's contribution to the EU Commission's pre-financing of interest rate vaccines and pre-booking fees is proposed at EUR 13.1 million. It has been important for Finland to ensure vaccination through EU cooperation. The task of the government and parliament is to ensure that it does not get caught for money. The vaccine does not remove the pandemic in an instant, but it creates an outlook for companies to invest. The success of the EU, the USA and China in resuscitation is crucial for the Finnish economy. The news of the vaccine is perhaps a turning point for the economy, and the outlook for the projected global growth is gradually emerging, but we still need to be able to live at least next winter. The government's goal has been to support businesses and jobs beyond the crisis. The proposed package includes a continuation of independent cost support for industry, to which an increase of EUR 410 million is proposed. In the first round of applications, EUR 140 million was not used, so after this amending budget, EUR 550 million will be available to support businesses in difficulty as a result of the interest rate crisis. Helping companies beyond the corona crisis will help to ensure a recovery in production and jobs even after the crisis. Mr President! The government will take the corona on behalf of the municipalities. The cost of health care has increased and the tax revenues of municipalities have decreased. If we did not compensate municipalities for the losses caused by the epidemic, the municipalities would easily be forced to cut down on basic services. This is what the government wants to avoid. In addition, support for municipalities can reduce the tax pressure resulting from the corona crisis. Increases in municipal taxes pose a serious threat to the recovery of the economy. In order to compensate municipalities for the costs of testing and tracing the Corona virus, a one-off increase of EUR 350 million in basic services is proposed. In addition, EUR 400 million is proposed for central government transfers of basic municipal services and EUR 200 million for hospital districts as one-off increases to compensate for the loss of other costs and revenues resulting from the corona virus situation. Mr President! The net borrowing of central government is estimated to rise to just over EUR 19 billion this year. Less than 10 billion of this consists of one-off increases in appropriations decided on as a result of the interest rate situation. These one-off expenditure increases are roughly divided into half: increases in expenditure directly linked to the interest rate and, in the first place, increases in expenditure in the interest of recovery. The remainder of the deficit is the result of the operation of automatic stabilisers, i.e. higher unemployment security expenditure and lower tax revenues, as well as the estimated deficit and non-recurring expenditure directly attributable to the management of the interest rate before the interest rate crisis. This is a conscious choice, because without the arrival of the state, the consequences of the pandemic would be far more harmful to people and businesses. Careful management of the interest rate crisis is the best economic policy. The government has done well in this regard. In the recent Commission economic forecast, the fall in Finland's GDP for this year is one of the smallest in the EU. In order for the forecast to be fulfilled, the corona situation will continue to be maintained. However, concern about the increase in the debt burden is not unfounded. The burden should not be unduly passed on to future generations. This is why it is important that the spending limits procedure for government expenditure should be introduced for next year's appropriations. A vigorous policy for this year and next year is well founded, but it cannot be permanent, and after the crisis we must return to spending discipline that is essential for the credibility of economic policy. A credible spending limits system is a key instrument here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u3	Mr President! This seventh amending budget will continue this continuum of amending budgets, in which the government debt will indeed increase — as it did here by EUR 1.5 billion — but, in itself, some of these uses are quite understandable and certainly accepted by this Chamber as a whole, for example, as the Minister of Finance described, this acquisition of the vaccine and, of course, the cost support of companies, this transfer allocation. And then, of course, I think, at least in this way, that this management of the situation in the municipalities and the safeguarding of the municipalities in this situation, where, however, the basic services that are important to us all are produced, is extremely important. However, although the Minister of Finance described here that this is all technical and that there are mainly issues that really are closely related to this administration of the interest rate, the eyes of the opposition here do pick up a few of the peculiarities that I would like to see a little more clarification of now that the Minister is here. First of all, I would like to point out that this amending budget is now about to do this EUR 300 million capitalisation for Climate Fund Ltd, and this will then take place on the basis of the activities of this state development company Vake. In this respect, particular attention is drawn to the fact that, now that such a major change is being made, Jouni Hakala, the commentator of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, appointed by the Prime Minister’s Office of the Government, in carrying out this report on the role and future of Vake — and this mandate called for ‘recommendations and recommendations on the financing possibilities of Finnish companies in the various stages of development and internationalintervention,to avoid duplication of State activities and to ensure the efficient use of their capital’ —recommended that the Finnish Industrial Investment Fund should be replaced by a private equity. However, contrary to the recommendation of this liquidator, the government decided to transform this into the Vake Climate Fund and then increase its capitalisation. In this context, I would like to follow up on the basis of this decision of the Government, if the rapporteur has clearly outlined a different direction for this decision. And then, in view of the activity in that Vake — we have read in the headlines about its activities, mainly that expensive consultancy bills have been paid — I really hope that the Ministry of Finance will clarify this a little. Then there is the point I would like to make: such various individual grants to organisations have been raised here in the amending budget, and I understand that the work of these organisations is extremely important — the Christian Democrats fully support it — but it is strange that individual organisations have been picked up here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u4	Mr President! Finland's GDP is estimated to fall by 4.5 per cent this year. The euro area as a whole is talking about a reduction of around 8%. This is a difficult situation, but we have done very well in relation to others. The measures taken in Finland have been timely and on the right scale. Yesterday we also heard good and promising news about the corona vaccine. In the light of this news, we can leave with hope for next year and for a new era of growth. However, with hope, it should be remembered that the seventh amending budget now under discussion will raise this year's net borrowing to almost EUR 20 billion. This loan will be with us for a long time. President! However, a limited borrowing is intended. The ultimate idea is to keep people healthy, to protect life. The treatment of the interest rate and future corona vaccines will not be caught by the will of the state. These restrictions have protected risk groups and prevented the uncontrolled spread of the disease. The government has also given strong support to firms that are in distress with corona. The intention has been clear: all healthy businesses are being escorted over the crisis. Municipalities and health care districts have also been compensated for the additional bills brought by the interest rate and the additional need for care and service debts. Once the disease subsides, society is in the best position to jump into the growth cycle. For the same reason, the preparation of structural reforms, together with the management of the interest rate, has continued. Many studies suggest that Finland will only succeed in the future by raising the level of education and the employment rate. The same result was reached in the Vesa Vipriälä report published in the spring. Around Finland, starting places have been added and new training courses have been established in higher education institutions. Thus, a modern regional education policy has been developed, in which the whole of Finland has had its eyes on it. Increasing the compulsory education age will ensure that everyone has at least a secondary degree and thus better skills for working life. Perhaps the most important of structural reforms, that is to say, the reform of social security, has been taken forward. In the same way, employment measures are carried out despite the interest rate and precisely for that reason. In particular, I expect the social partners to find solutions to promote the employment rate of people over 55 and to improve their position in the labour market and their working lives. We are in that huge back way, for example, in relation to Sweden. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure the safety of citizens in all situations. This is reflected in considerable efforts, for example, to strengthen Finland’s military defence. President! Of course, we live in tough times. We'll be in debt at a high speed. But everything has a purpose. Many debt-taking targets have also received the approval of the opposition. And finally, let's say From time to time the Sipilä government was criticised for its powerful and ambitious economic policy, I suppose it has also served as a buffer for the corona era and also provided better oxygen for the recovery policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u5	Mr President! Good Minister of Finance and good Minister of Local Government, Members of Representatives and others present! The treatment of Korona in Finland has been successful from the point of view of the disease. For that we have commended the whole corona crisis along the way. Of course, some measures could have been taken more quickly there: for example, the recommendations for the use of masks, masks, masks, etc., which unfortunately were even partially ignored by the government — such as the WHO recommendations — would have been such that perhaps some of the summer sports events and major events could have been carried out in a responsible manner, even with the WHO’s recommendations on facial masks, and perhaps we would have avoided some of this economic blow. That is the second question, then, of how well this economic management has been achieved. Central government debt is already rising by around 20 billion on these measures, and the government parties have already flashed that this seven amending budgets will not necessarily remain the last amending budget of this year. The Social Democrats have worked hard in this Chamber in previous years to wave their so-called debt poo, and they look rather harsh now after the second year of the Social Democratic Government — probably Mr Viitanen will also be updating his own locker. The current representative of Kulmuni, while he was still in charge of the centre, considered the principle that there would be no permanent expenditure before permanent revenue. Unfortunately, it seems that as the representative My corner was put on the exchange and the city centre was chaired by representative Saarikko and the Minister of Finance Vanhanen, who is actually the minister of government policy, seems to have forgotten this rather fundamental instruction. Permanent expenditure is all made up of the Government Programme, but little about the permanent revenue. [Antti Lindtman’s interlude] These employment measures, which this government has done even during this corona crisis, are modest and, unfortunately, they would have been needed more. But not so much bad that something good is not good: I would like to thank you for taking care of the financial situation in the municipalities. Many municipalities are in a very difficult situation. It is a thank-you hand extension that the larger bear this responsibility on behalf of the smaller ones. I also welcome the fact that we should be prepared for the procurement of vaccines.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u11	Mr President! Korona has hit exceptionally hard on public transport. In its seventh amending budget, the Government is now allocating a total of EUR 111 million in support of mass and passenger train transport. These services are very important for the equality of citizens and for the smooth running of everyday life. These investments therefore aim to secure the current level of service. The additional efforts combined with the recovery already made and the amending budget decisions will ensure a functioning and affordable public transport for more and more Finns in the future. The Government of Sustainable Development is taking interest rate measures to strengthen climate recovery and sustainable employment, and despite the corona, our journey towards a carbon-neutral welfare state continues. Public transport must be taken care of throughout Finland in the light of regional justice. Since public transport is not an option everywhere, it is also important to have access to the amending budget. At the same time, care will be taken to ensure that an increasing number of vehicles on rubber wheels are less emission-free and that they continue to disengage from fossil fuels as planned. Mr President! At present, the best employment and economic policy is to prevent the spread of the corona virus. This amending budget will continue the government's systematic work to combat the corona virus. As a doctor, I still remind everyone of their own responsibility: the virus will not spread if we humans do not allow it. The costs of testing and tracing the Korona virus will be covered, municipal support will be continued and the costs of hospital districts will be reimbursed. This will help municipalities significantly in making next year's budgets. Last thing we got from the vaccine front was some promising news last night. An additional allocation has been proposed for the purchase of Covid-19 vaccines. Representative Heinoselle: if there is a safe travel bubble, we will be happy to hear about it. At the moment, it seems that all we have around the world are corona bubbles. The aim is that in Finland such things are not born.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u12	President! The seventh draft amending budget for 2020 has proposed that Parliament should make an increase of EUR 50 million in actual development cooperation. This increase cannot be considered justified in a situation where the covid-19 pandemic has caused an unprecedented public health and economic disaster in our country. Finland has the most mental health problems in all OECD countries. Mental health problems entail considerable costs for society. In Finland, costs amount to EUR 11 billion each year. Last year, 84,000 people applied for sickness allowance because of mental disorders, and the increase in sick leave is over 40 per cent in the last three years. Young people are also distressed. At present, the most common cause of young people’s referral to special care is anxiety and about 3% of secondary school pupils are constantly absent from school due to psychiatric symptoms. At the same time, for example, the primary level lacks around 500 psychologists in student care in Finland. There is a shortfall of EUR 100 million in upper secondary school education. By comparison, the latest increase of EUR 50 million would hire more than a thousand nurses or about 800 new police officers for a year or acquire more than 300 new permanent teaching positions in vocational schools. Would it be more important to spend this 50 million on preventive and safety-enhancing targets, such as nurses, psychologists, police officers or teachers here in the country? The money used in this way would also pay for itself in both economic and human terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u13	Mr President! This year has required many major amending budgets. The interest rate situation still requires support in various areas of society. They are included in the order of this seventh draft amending budget. A total of EUR 750 million is proposed for municipalities and EUR 200 million for hospital districts to cover the costs of the corona epidemic, such as testing. The aim of the grants is to secure basic municipal services, help increase services essential to managing the corona epidemic and ensure the success of the government’s hybrid strategy. Reasonably, we have been able to smooth the rise of the second wavebrush. Every citizen has a big responsibility here. The arts and culture sector in particular has been in great distress when public events are cancelled. EUR 23 million is proposed to compensate for the loss of revenue in the field of art and culture resulting from the corona virus situation and to ensure continuity of activities; In addition, EUR 7 million will be distributed to the Arts Promotion Centre as grants to people and actors in the field of art and culture. The cultural and artistic sector is a huge entity, and I hope that these measures will at least be able to compensate for some of the damage that has been done. We have also taken a measure initiative in cooperation with several parties to facilitate the situation of artists with regard to copyright compensation. Similarly, the use of public transport has fallen as people reduce their mobility. For example, due to the loss of ticket revenues, HSL, responsible for traffic in the capital region, is in serious trouble and is therefore raising ticket prices — at a time when the direction should be quite different and people should move from lonely car trips to public use at the latest as soon as the corona subsides. A total of EUR 111 million is proposed to secure the service level of public passenger transport in the event of a prolonged corona virus situation, of which EUR 11 million is proposed for the purchase of passenger train services and EUR 100 million for the purchase of public passenger services in large and medium-sized urban areas. In the face of the interest-rate crisis, we must certainly not forget the fight against climate change. The Corona virus has shaken the whole world. Many countries are struggling with major challenges even before the corona virus spreads, and now the situation is becoming more demanding. We need international multilateral cooperation and solidarity to overcome this pandemic and to overcome its consequences. That is precisely why it is important that an increase of EUR 50 million is proposed, based on the Government Programme, on the actual development funds. Of this increase, EUR 5 million will be allocated to the World Health Organisation’s work against coronavirus pandemic in developing countries and EUR 24.5 million to humanitarian aid to respond to the humanitarian effects of coronavirus pandemic and EUR 18 million to climate finance. Thank you to the government for this choice of values. This is not, however, out of the police budget or the funding allocated to education,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u15	Mr President! If you look at the disease situation in Finland, it is not good, but on the other hand it seems to be better than in any other European country. [Department :Sontotta! ] This is largely due to the fact that we Finns have all worked responsibly together to prevent the disease from spreading in Finland. [Department : Sekinonotta! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u22	Now, from the movement, it looks like we're going to a small debut. Please, those who want to participate in the debate, press the V button from your seat.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u23	Mr President! It has been said that we should not be provoked, so that is why I am not going to open the debate on transport issues in the town council in Sastamala, but to stay in this debate at national level, unlike the previous speaker. If we start from the fact that, of course, this situation must be revived, we must keep this economy going, but when we say, as Arhinmäki said, that the government is taking the hit so that the municipalities do not have to take it, then good day! They're the same taxpayers on the state and the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u26	Mr President! To this, it must be said that in the face of such sudden external shock, in which the economic cycle is going downhill, it is quite right that it is the state that is the one that is balancing this out with budgetary policy. Firstly, because of the legislation, we have much less opportunities for municipalities to do this, there are municipal deficit criteria, which have been relaxed, but they have not disappeared. Municipalities are in a very different situation, which is why the potential of municipalities, by loosening fiscal policy, is low. Consider the situation that the state would not have provided these additional subsidies to the municipalities. This would have meant that, in the middle of the second wave of the corona virus, municipalities would have had to cut down heavily. It would also have been poison for the treatment of this disease, and if anything were poison for the economy. Congressman Satonen, I hope,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u27	Mr President! However, there is a great deal of concern about the fact that the government is in very heavy debt at the moment, and the view is not good in that regard until the vaccine is taken out and this problem is resolved. As a general rule, the policy of the government itself has been correct, and there is no significant alternative to it except for the fact that you have increased expenditure and allowed expenditure in this year's budget to come to fruition which is neither justified nor correct in relation to this situation. Why, Mr Vanhanen, are you not looking for savings? When there is a Minister of Local Government there, I will ask about the fact that the municipalities receive this support in a very different way, as Mr Satonen said. Some get rich with this, some get rich with the corona.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u28	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Kankaanniemi for his very constructive and analytical approach, although we do not agree with everything. President! Well, there's a place for classical resuscitation, if there's a place. I have not read anyone as market-liberal as well as a monetarist economist who would think that we should cut and not revive now. In a shock like this, if where, is the place for recovery, and I do now have a little resistance and opponity from Mr Sato, whom I have appreciated, that it is indeed justified that the state should be in debt and that the municipalities should not cut off their own services. That would mean longer treatment lines, that would mean more laid-off teachers. That's not what we want. And it is also justified that we have now, through cost support and company subsidies, prevented the wave of bankruptcy and mass unemployment. President! What is essential when we rise from this corona crisis is that we are able to implement the reforms that will be used to pay these debts in the future. Labour market reforms in particular
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u29	Mr President! Indeed, it is now important to ensure that the necessary investments by municipalities can be made and that efforts have been made to do so. However, the municipalities have not always been able to turn the philosophy in the direction that the EU has been promoting now, even with the recovery package, and here we are trying to promote that investment should now be mobilised even in the context of economic policy, because the economy is now in difficulty. Now is not the time to cut, if there is any chance of avoiding surgery. Unfortunately, however, this philosophy has not moved forward so quickly in all the coalition-led municipalities. The vaccine also seems to provide a certain time limit, which makes it even more justified for us to keep this good coronalation situation under control, so that we save lives and the economy will be able to function better until then,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u30	Mr President! There are also good things in this amending budget, but I wonder about the huge investment in Climate Fund Ltd — 0.3 billion in projects that would focus on combating climate change and accelerating low-carbon industries while the government is considering drastic additional increases in fuel tax. This is a debate that has led to the very cautiousness of industrial companies and investors: is it even worthwhile to invest in Finland? [AnttiCall]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u31	Mr President! Just as Minister Vanhanen said, recovery cannot be permanent and this financial debt must be a matter of concern. But here we seem to forget the realities of a very large number of representatives when we slander the measures that Finland has taken. We must remember that we are one of the best countries in Europe, if not the best in the world, who have survived the corona crisis. And if we compare it with a neighbouring country in Sweden, there the gross national income has fallen by about the same amount as in Finland, but the human price is much, much higher. And when Mr Heinonen compared the situation in Europe, we must remember that there are curfews in France, the Czech Republic, Belgium, for example. There are extremely major crises there, and it is extremely important that Finland continues to operate in this direction, which has now been done, so that we can be ready when the international economy starts to pull off — so that we are in the middle of an attack and are in line with economic growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u32	Mr President! The government's debt is fierce. And that debt will sometimes be paid, even though the left is of the opinion that the debt never has to be paid. It is cutting from children and grandchildren in many ways. This is a lot of spending, and Mr Vanhanen, Minister of Finance, often says that the spending limits procedure does not apply to interest payments. But when we go through this amending budget and next year's budget too, you have been able to put everything into this basket of interest payments, that is, the one that will not be affected by these limits in the spending limits procedure next year. But our main criticism has never been about taking the hit and treating the corona, but about the modest nature of these employment measures that are here. According to estimates by the Ministry of Finance, decisions taken in the budget:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u33	Mr President! Health and the success of the interest rate determine to a great extent how we will succeed in the economy and in employment, and that is also the answer to Mr Heinos. However, the opposition has been very critical of further government borrowing, which has ensured access to social and health services for citizens, as well as school services, municipal services,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u34	Mr President! It is clear that the costs of the interest rate are such that more investment is needed and that the municipalities and hospital districts have worked at the forefront there. Here's a package of almost a billion dollars for municipalities and medical districts. Our testing, tracing, isolation strategy has created challenges, especially now in the autumn, in this tracking and isolation process, when the testing capacity was raised by the cooperation of private operators to the extent that it is now working. In the capital region, we read a few weeks ago that school nurses were transferred to track down. Different congregations have also moved sliders to the tracking work. And this is worrying in the sense that there is a social need in schools, as in the congregations, for the working person at the moment that people really should not be doing this tracking work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u35	Ärade talman, Mr President! Vi behandlar alltså den sjunde tillaggsbudgeten för 2020 och många rai i debatten har — helt riktigt — lyft upp det att vi faktiskt skuldsätter oss med en ganska rejäl fart. Men vi har inte något alternativ Heller för tillät. Vi har råkat ut för en sådan chock att vi helt enkelt måste töda såväl kommuner som företag.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u36	Mr President! Mr Satonen was wondering whether it mattered whether the State or the municipalities would take these attacks. It is of enormous importance. Municipalities are those who provide basic services for us: basic social and basic health services, services for the elderly, day care, early childhood education, comprehensive school. If this crisis had been brought down by the municipalities, it would have been necessary, for example, to make drastic cuts in comprehensive school. [Mari-Leena Talvitie’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u37	Mr President! The opposition is critical of this climate fund, which the government now capitalises with EUR 300 million,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u40	I will give you two more speeches on this, and then Mr Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u41	Mr President! There is no doubt that the government has succeeded in all its coronavirus activities so far. They have been timely and correctly rated, and this line continues in a strong way in this seventh additional budget. We must be pleased that the coalition opposition has really nothing to say when it comes to discussing which public body should take debt, the state or the municipalities. It is clear, of course, that the State receives the most favourable debt and is the most appropriate borrower in this situation, although it has also been possible to develop convenient indebtedness routes for municipalities through municipal funding and the Municipal Guarantee Centre, but it is important that the cost support for companies is continued in its reformed, better functioning form, that the municipalities and health care districts are taken care of and that the necessary funds are directed to health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u42	Mr President! Of course, it does matter how the municipalities use these interest and other subsidies allocated by the government, such as this public transport subsidy, which was already mentioned here. The Sanna Marin government committed an act of public transport, now that it has allocated 111 million, indeed, to this important activity in this seventh amending budget. But what happened in the capital region? Indeed, in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, the Transport Board of the Helsinki Region, which is co-operative, and it also has a co-ownership as Managing Director,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u45	Minister Vanhanen, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u46	Mr President! Last week there was a Eurogroup meeting, where health experts showed the map in which Finland was, you can say, with its own colour scale compared to most of the rest of Europe. And two days later, the Commission published the economic forecasts, and even on that map, Finland was in its own colour with two other countries. So the management of the corona and the development of the economy are indisputably linked, unambiguously linked, and that is what we too have to do with all these restrictions and others. The government will feel the pain of all these event organizers, sporting events and so on about how to strike the right balance with keeping the economy open and with the restrictions that keep us in check with the epidemic. This is continuous, weekly weighing and work. There are two reasons for the role of municipalities in me: Another factor is that, at a time like this, we must ensure that basic services work and that municipalities do not go into sudden action. Municipal leaders are under great pressure to keep their economies under control, and that is why this is needed. But the second reason is that the national recovery policy must also be consistent, and it would not be the case that, at the same time as the state is reviving, there will be cuts in the municipalities. We must act in time, and the entire public sector must act equally. With this policy, we are trying to guarantee it — not that more than 300 municipalities make their own decisions. Unfortunately, with regard to bankruptcy, the government can never guarantee that there will be no bankruptcy during or after this epidemic. When payment delays, repayments of loans and so on end, this period of epidemics will leave a grim mark on our economy and our business life, so that, with this cost support, we try to do what can be done. The role of the Climate Fund is clear. It is not a donor, it is an investment provider. We need a competitive industry that, with its investment and experimental facilities, is clinging to the economic wave that is about to start around the world in the face of climate change and that is going to generate a great deal of demand. These investments need capital. And climate fund: the state is prepared to participate in this by providing capital, but it always requires private companies to invest themselves. Finally, Mr Essayah's question on the organizations on page 65. These organisations, other than those listed in the budget, receive grants from organisations — they have been dealt with in the same logic as many national organisations, different art and culture players,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u47	Minister Paatero, one minute for municipal affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u48	Mr President! This government has taken the line that, when the tax revenues of municipalities are significantly reduced and, on the other hand, the need for services is growing — not even to remain the same, but to increase, because of the interest rate — it is right that those services should be organised and supported, especially by those who have been the weakest at this point. Another option would be for municipalities to take up debt or increase their tax rate. In this case — when I look at the statistics that have so far been obtained from municipalities and increases in tax rates — the majority of municipalities are able to keep the tax rate at its present level, and this government believes that this is the right solution. I asked for the floor to ask Mr Kankaanniemi what are the municipalities which have not received compensation for the costs of the interest payment. I am interested to hear it because we are still preparing it for next year too, that all the costs of the interest rate will be reimbursed directly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u49	Let us now move on to the list of speakers, we have at least one speaker to take before we have to put an end to this matter and the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u50	Mr President! Earlier this year, the Minister of Justice in his own proposal for the State budget next year presented EUR 1.8 million to the courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Criminal Sanctions Agency for the additional purchase of videoconferencing equipment. In the autumn, I was a little disappointed when these were no longer found in the actual draft budget. Videoconferencing became more widespread in the context of the corona virus pandemic and, unfortunately, a lot of court proceedings had to be postponed to later dates, because there were not enough of these videoconferencing devices in the judicial system. This has led to congestion and longer processing times. Government debt increases with this additional budget, and even if the corona virus situation eventually passes, the efforts to be made would still be worthwhile due to a reduction in the legal process and a reduction in the overall length of proceedings. It would also support the move towards the concentration of evidence in district courts and is therefore intended to be carried out in such a way that the evidence is recorded in the district court for photo and audio tapes used in court. That is why I tabled three budget initiatives earlier in which I put forward EUR 1.8 million for the purchase of videoconferencing equipment for the courts, the Prosecutor's Office and the Criminal Sanctions Agency. The Committee on Legal Affairs also drew attention to this issue. It was a pleasure to see that these additions were found in this seventh amending budget, and I would like to thank the government for this, because this is ultimately a very important issue. However, justice is one of the most important central tasks of the state, and the continued congestion and extension of proceedings would be detrimental both to the realisation of citizens' legal protection and also to business and investment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u51	Now the debate and the debate are adjourned. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u52	We shall now proceed to the third reading of item 3 which has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u53	Madam President! I would like to criticise the government for some reasonable but also reckless debt, but I have noticed that in this past year this concern is not taken seriously by the representatives of the government party and when they speak about it they are like those who have received electricity shock. So I prefer to focus on the government’s choice of values. We see many and many examples of how poor children and young people are, both mentally and physically. This development has only accelerated in the face of the challenges of the corona. Of course, there is no single solution. Nevertheless, I claim that Finland’s wonderful sports clubs have one key to the solution. A mobile, active and safe environment with physical activity has saved many lives and will continue to do so if only the government does its part that these sports and sports clubs will continue to exist in the future. According to the data of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, the government has pumped municipalities into surplus of EUR 1.2 billion in the midst of the crisis. This chosen line may work in future municipal elections, but at the same time the sports field has received poor support of EUR 20 million. According to statistics of the Finnish Olympic Committee, it can be estimated that from March to September the net losses of the non-governmental activities of physical activity and sport are over EUR 100 million — net losses, and they will only increase. The backskin is torn and adjusted: is this the future of physical activity? I'll give you an example of a youth basketball club in Kouvola. Because of the corona, they had to cancel the big junior tournament and missed several tens. In the midst of such attacks, how can you continue to work and help children and young people to live? I could also give you a similar example of the Pesis Society in the same city. There are examples, we all know that. I know the government's answer is that you're compensating for the winnings. This is a great thing, of course, but it is only a temporary solution and does not respond to the great distress that the corona virus has brought to the clubs. I really ask for our Finns, our children and our young people, in fact, for the future of Finland as a whole, that you now take steps to save the Finnish club field. You've already had Visa whiny, now you've got to direct your investments to the final bill's payers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u54	Mr President! According to a recent forecast published by the EU Commission last Thursday, Finland's economy will be the third lowest in all euro countries in 2020, 4.3%. In the euro area as a whole, the corresponding drop is 7.8%. Only Ireland and Lithuania can do better than Finland. Of course, account must also be taken of the post-cyclical nature of the Finnish economy and the significant and worrying emptying of industrial order books, so there is no reason for particular optimism in relation to the economic outlook in the near future. The EK reported today that in September industrial orders fell by just under 11 per cent, and in December it will be considerably long less, longer than what has just been mentioned. Mr President! There is no doubt that the government has succeeded in its coronavirus activities so far. The measures have been timely and well-measured. This seventh amending budget is a good continuation of the work so far. A swift decision-making process was required in March in a completely new situation, as there was little knowledge of the disease. The situation is now essentially better in that sense that there is more knowledge of the virus and much more testing and tracing capacity than in the spring. Mr President! The most effective economic policy in the near future must be to manage the spread of the virus as well as possible, so that society can remain as open as possible. In recent times, our development has been much better than in the rest of Europe. In the latest comparison, we are the best country in the European Economic Area in terms of the two-week incidence rates. Yesterday’s news about the vaccine adds to the optimism of overcoming corona discipline, but we must, of course, be patient. Mr President! It is very important to continue with the renewed cost support of companies. Experiences came from that first version of cost support, and now the conditions have been changed in such a way that they are hopefully better suited to companies. I hope that this new round will be launched in December when this amending budget is due to be implemented here in the next week. There will be 410 million new money, and when EUR 140 million was not spent on the first round, a total of EUR 550 million will now be available. Overall, the government has had about a dozen ways of improving the situation in companies, and it has, of course, been very important that this has been the case. Mr President! The local government finances require continuous support measures because the corona virus situation is strained by municipalities and the situation in many municipalities is quite difficult even without corona. We must therefore welcome the funding of an additional budget to safeguard basic services and reduce the pressure on tax increases. EUR 350 million will be allocated for the testing and tracing of the Korona virus. Another EUR 400 million for central government transfers to basic services and EUR 200 million for hospital districts as one-off increases are really needed. Regarding individual issues, I would like to highlight the additional funding of the Metso programme and then the important assistance to household organisations: Agriculture and Household Women, Martta Organization, Swedish-speaking Organisations. It is important that these organisations be supported. During the day I was surprised when Mrs Essayah criticised the support of these women's most efficient organisations in this exceptional situation. And then the last thing I want to do is bring up what I was working for. It's not big, but it's important. E18 Funding is proposed for the road planning of the Turku ring road Raisio—Naantali, and it is authorised that the total amount will be EUR 4.2 million, which will be allocated to this, although not yet the total amount in this budget. It is important that this section of the Turku ring road Raisio—Naantal is built, and the first step is of course planning. It is both a person and a major road for freight transport, but another portway,whichis built Financing planning is therefore an excellent first step, but it would also be important to implement the project as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u55	Mr President! This seventh additional economic estimate of the year speaks a very harsh language about the current situation in our country. On the basis of this information, the net borrowing of central government loans is already growing close to EUR 19 billion, which means that we are already close to minus 8% of GDP in relation to that deficit, and the figures are, of course, horrendously high. If you look at the situation at the time of the financial crisis some ten years ago, then the government's debt probably went to just over EUR 10 billion, which is a good illustration of the serious impact on our economy that this virus has caused us. In fact, Mr Kiviranta spoke a lot of wise ideas, which I myself had thought I should say, and perhaps this is the essential point of the fact that we now really have to work on two tracks. The first is that these interest rate measures must be on-going and must be assessed in such a way that society is able to function as normally as possible, so that these basic functions of society, as it were, remain open. And here, let me say, the situation is fairly good at the moment, but I would like, Mr President, to raise the issue of tourism in Lapland, which has been the subject of a great deal of debate. Frankly, I find it quite inconceivable that this government has now been waging for many months on the question of what is being done about tourism in Lapland. There is a complete crisis going on: for example, the international travel company TUI announced today that it will cancel the rest of Lapland's trips, and in practice the situation will lead to a huge number of bankruptcies. I cannot understand, as a member of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, when this earlier proposal was already discussed, how this issue is simply not being put right. What is the reason why these policies cannot be made so that entrepreneurs in Lapland know and that there the actors in Lapland know what rules of the game are going forward, and that, above all, these international tour operators are able to see and interpret the rules on which they can safely come to Finland? This is where I send the strong towels to the government. Mr. Speaker! This second path, which we must continue to follow, is that we must look forward again after this crisis, and that means that, at the same time, the government must now prepare, firstly, these structural measures, employment measures, because they will take a long time to implement them. Now we are still waiting for the impressive measures that were not achieved by the budget debate and, for example, the promotion of local reconciliation is now buried somewhere, and that is what we are still waiting for in this Chamber. This combination of two measures will then move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u56	Ärade Herr Talman! Det är redan den sjunde tillaggsbudgeten för i år, vilket måste reserve ett now rekord. Det visar dock Vilken enorm chock coronapandemin variants mot economist och finanserna. Den offentliga skuldsättningen ökar på ett mycket oroande jätt. Det oroar också mig. Det är ändå så att det inte finns några andra alternativ för tilfället eftersom vi måste töda sjukården, kommunernas bassservice, konst och kultur samt företagen att överleva den ärh krisen, för om de inte överlever kommer återuppbyggnaden av economist ta mycket längre tid och vara mycket svårare att göra. Då kommer det göra att det tar längre tid innan statsfinanserna är på grön kvist igen, och det kommer också resultra i både mänskligt lidande och många kkonkurser i så fall. Det skull en riktig lose-lose. Av den anledningen är också nistan ekonomer av samma åsikt att just den ox nitrogens stimulans behövs för ekonomin just nu när goda råd är dyra. Bara töden till kostnadstödet är på över en cheap billion i den raus tillagsbudgeten. Det är en stor sum men hent nödvändig för att hjälpa företag att klara sig över krisen så att vi har dem kvar och arbetsplatserna med dem. Det är en förbättrad version av stödet från i somras och det är branschneutralt. Jag är mycket tacksam för att stödet kan sökas av åländska företag, eftersom Ålands ekonomisdrabbats på ett oerhört hårt sätt på grund av krisen som slagit både mot sjöfarten och tourismen samtidigt. Tack till regeringen för det. Ärade Herr Talman! Vi hoppas att de raustöden naturligtvis snart ska kunna avslutas genom att saker skulle kunna återgå till det mer normala igen då pandemicn är över. Gårdagens lovande uppgifter om ett vaccin var en oerhört fin nyhet som ingav hopp. Flera andra lovande vaccinkander är också på gång. Förhoppningen är att vi kan ha ett effektivt och säkert vaccin som är brett tillgängligt redan i början av nasta år. Osäkerhet finns naturligtvis om saken, men gårdagens besked tände ett konkret hopp effectersom träffsäkerheten med just det vaccinet var högre an 90 percent, och i så fall skulle kanske en dryg 60 percents tuckning behövas för att nå flockimmunitet i samhället med det tär vaccinet. Irade the Talman! Den sjunde tillaggsbudgeten innehåller stöd till kommuner och sjukgårdsdistrikt för att finansiera coronarelaterade kostnader. I detta heisende budgeteras det också 5 million euro för att erätta kostnader som upkommit för bland you give testning och spårning av coronasmitta på Åland. Det har tidigare funnits ett principbeslut om den ox saken i regeringen, om att erätta kostnaderna också på Åland, men nu budgeteras alltså medel i practiceken så att de kan betalas ut på den rai sidan avåret. Anledningen till att man finansierar saken från statens sida har att göra med att man inte vill att kommunerna eller sjukårdsdistrikten ska dräner eller börja snåla på testningen eller spårningen eftersom det då skulle riskera att smittan inte skulle upptakkas och som en consekvens kunna få ett starkare fotfäste — något vi så klart inte vill. Det är viktigt att momma logik gäller Åland och att kostnaderna finansieras fullt ut också på Åland. Enligt mina uppgifter kommer 5 milioner inte att rucka om man också räknar in kostnaderna utöver enbart den direkta testningen och spårningen, viiket man gör för ala andra områden i Finland inclusive kommuner och sjukgårdsdistrikt. Det är därför viktigt att riksdagens finansutskott hör Åland i frågan, grundligt kartlägger behovet på Åland och vid behov också ökar på anslaget. Det är i detta heisende viktigt att påminna om att smittsamma sjukdomar är en behörighet som är statens i självstyrelselage. Självstyrelsen är ox bara verkställande myndighet. Därför är det naturligt att staten bekostar detta fullt ut också på Åland. Nu har man budgeterat 5 million euro, men enligt mina uppgifter skulle drygt 6 million euro behövas, alltså ungefär 1 million euro till. Jag har varit i kontakt med finansministeriet i ärendet och har förstått att det finns en beredskap att höja på anslaget bara social- och älsovårdsministeriet askar om det. Det hoppas jag att man är redo att göra, och min förhopppning är att finansutskottet granskar den bull saken noggrant. Det är viktigt att man också på Åland upplever att man har tillräckliga resorter för att testa och spåra coronaviruset så att man inte börjar snåla på det. Coronasituationen på Åland är i övrigt mycket bra med valdigt få fall, och vi vill så klart hålla det på det viset. För att göra det behövs testningar och andra förebyggande rutiner, men efftersom inga fall på Åland behövt intensivård och bara enstaka fall behövt sjukhusvård har också kostnaderna för coronavården hits hållits nere som en consekvens. Per capita har man också behövt testa betydligt mindre än på många andra platser i Finland eftersom smän inte fått fäste, vilket också har spat på kostnaderna, men just därför skulle det kunas extra viktigt att de kostnaderna kände esättas fullt ut på samma ät som andra områden. Det är rimligt hell angels.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u57	Mr President! The seventh amending budget of the year raises central government debt to close to EUR 20 billion this year and the total figure of Finland's state debt to record. Nevertheless, it is interesting that interest expenditure on central government debt, total debt, is still at a lower level than that on debt, even at the time of the 2008 financial crisis. This gives perspective on the different situation in the market and also tells of the good legacy left by the previous government that has made it possible for Finland to accept debt at a favourable interest rate, and it tells us that Finland has a good rating and now in this kind of really demanding situation can be leveraged, we have buffers created, thanks to the previous government. But to put it this way, you must still be concerned about this huge debt, about what is the way out, how to cope with this debt, how future generations will survive it. The previous speaker knows well, as many others in this House know, that once the corona crisis, the health crisis, has been handled well in Finland, but it has also had a huge impact on tourism. Even if the corona itself has not been able to influence people, and people’s health always comes first, both tourism in Åland and tourism in Lapland and tourism in Lake Finland have suffered from this situation. And, Mr President, I must also pay attention to the fact that, in the spring, when this situation came unexpectedly and the government did not of course know what this disease was, and then it was done in the moment, now that there has been information about what this autumn and winter will be, yet this situation of tourism, air travel, such bubbles or various means have not been achieved, and in that sense Mr Marttinen has given the government justifiable criticism that, as far as this tourism is concerned, there is no complete success in terms of health and safety. Finally, Mr President, a few comments on the fact that, when, in time, hopefully, there will be a way out of this crisis, whether through the vaccine or otherwise, and when, in time, the international market starts to pull back and Finland, as an export-driven small open economy, will – hopefully be able to make it, we will have to be ready for that growth, and therefore I hope that the government will find more ways to improve competitiveness, so that Finland will not be left behind as a starting point when the world economy starts to grow.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u58	Thank you. — Representative Pirttilahti — absent, representative Hoskonen — absent, representative Strand — absent, representative Rantanen, Mari — absent, representative Kiljunen, Kimmo — absent. Congressman Kärnä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u59	Mr President! People are getting a little short, but that's how the party gets better when the crowd gets smaller, an elite group on the scene. There has been a broad debate today on the amending budget, and the comments made by the Assembly in particular are somewhat surprising. I understand, of course, that there is good reason to be concerned about debt and debt management. It is the responsibility of all politicians to deal with the debt properly, but the opposition would like to wonder whether there is concern about the work and livelihood of the citizens, about coping with this corona crisis — what about the municipalities, about basic services provided by the municipalities. If there is a time for debt to be taken, that time is right now, and the government’s measures are fully justified. Mr Löfström and Mr Könttä made excellent speeches on tourism, and I too am disappointed at the way in which the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has handled this crisis. Unfortunately, no necessary proposals have been received from there. It is kind of corny that today a government proposal on tourism restrictions was sent to the statement and at the same time we were informed that the great tour operator TUI has cancelled all his Christmas trips to Lapland. This bill would be put into effect before Christmas at the earliest. We have now lost tens of millions — if not hundreds of millions — of euros, and as a Lapp in particular, I am really concerned about the situation in the province. We have 180,000 inhabitants in the province, and at the moment the trigger has 10,000 jobs — 10,000. That it will be a cold winter, if the worst scenarios are realised here, and it is absolutely necessary that this travel, at least for the spring season, is now in order and next summer so that you can come to Finland safely — tested — and you can arrange your trips safely either in the bubbles or in any way. This crisis has also shown and I personally see that such restrictions must in future be decided locally by the local health authorities, because the knowledge of how to organise safe tourism lives there on the ground. We have now seen that knowledge does not live in the Department of Social Affairs and Health. To this end, Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of the government to the fact that if this worst scenario from the point of view of Lapland occurs — such as an incredible economic recession, massive unemployment — then I would strongly urge you to consider some form of aid package separately addressed to the province. The same may apply to Åland, which is highly dependent on tourism. I very much hope that we can work together across party lines with representatives from regions dependent on tourism, so that we can maintain these opportunities for life in our regions. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u60	Ärade Herr Talman! I den sjunde tillaggsbudgeten finns också medel för att bygga två nya bevakningsfartyg till sjöbevakningen. Fartygen ska esätta Tursas och Uisko och kommer att bli nänstan tre gånger större i gross än de som de ersätter och likna det stora bevakningsfartyget Safety, som finns på Finska viken. De nya bevakningsfartygen kommer att öka räddningskapaciteten till havs samt förstarka oljeskyddskapaciteten, vilkett är positivt för Åland, för sjöfarten. Det är dock viktigt att säkerstalla att de nya fartygen inte innebär ett tryck på att dr in ytterligare sjöbevakningssstatationer. Det är viktigt effectom det redan nu är glest mellan stationerna och det är ett åländskt perspectiveiv oerhört viktigt att vi också i framtiden har kvar TVå stationer, Kökar och Mariehamn.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u61	Mr President! The debate is apparently coming to an end, but just a few more views on this amending budget. At that early stage of the debate, I pointed out and criticised this: when it is said here that the local government finances have been rescued by the fact that the state has provided more of these additional state subsidies, that is, of course, true, but of course, de facto, it has been saved with debt money. So I am not opposed to these contributions being made to the municipalities, nor is that... Or of course it is the case that municipalities have to cope with these services, but that is what has occurred to me since I have both followed the debate on the newspapers and quite a few municipal decision-makers that many municipalities think that all things are well when this money has come, and that they do not realise that they are just as much a debt to all of us, all taxpayers, whether a municipality or a state. This is, as it were, a clarification of what was discussed here earlier. Mr President! As a second point, I would like to support what Mr Kärnä has said here, and many others have also spoken about it in this Chamber, including many people from the United States, that making tourism possible — safely, of course, but nevertheless — is a very big thing, since this corona crisis is bound to last for some time, even though positive news about the vaccine was received yesterday. Here I have said many times — and although it may be to repeat myself, I will say again — that I myself am afraid that this economic crisis caused by the interest rate and these restrictive measures will still be almost comparable in health even to what this interest rate itself has caused. It's because I'm always thinking about that recession in the early '90s, when I was a barbecue entrepreneur, and I remember how many fellow entrepreneurs went bankrupt at the time and some even took their lives. I know many who were then unemployed and were no longer really able to find a new job at work. In other words, these indirect effects if we lose thousands of companies, tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of jobs — perhaps not hundreds of thousands now, but tens of thousands at least — are really huge, and then we should try to live with this interest rate in such a way that we can see more broadly. Of course, it is important that the disease does not spread, and Finland has done very well in it, and the government has done very well in it too, but these economic effects on people must be minimised, or we have quite a fall, not only in economic terms, but also in human terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u62	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Sato for his intelligent and excellent words on tourism. I couldn't agree more. Indeed, we must now hope that this government proposal will be dealt with as soon as possible here in the House, the way in which tourism can safely be carried out in Finland, and that at least this spring season, the summer season, will be saved. It's a very critical thing. Mr Satonen also took a position on local government finances, and I fully agree that such a package of subsidies alone will not solve the problems of local government finances. Local government finances have been in trouble for a very long time — I, if anyone, know that as a former mayor. It's a lot of places of constant balancing with a knife blade. But in this context, I am very pleased that the government is carrying out a social and regional reform, so that these social and health care services can be transferred away from the shoulders of the municipalities. They will be transferred to the regions, which will then, depending on the decisions made, contribute to facilitating the economic situation of the municipalities. It is hoped that good proposals will then also be received from the assembly for this support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u63	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must give its opinion. A maximum of 45 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u64	Mr President! Here I expected that we would have had a minister presenting this proposal by the government on the electronic processing of social welfare and health care customer information and some related legislation, especially because of the fact that we have, of course, heard and discussed a great deal about this information leak in recent weeks in public, and I really would have liked to know what has been done in the Ministry on this matter and in what way we are now going to help these thousands of people whose data has been leaked and stolen. In that sense, I hope that if perhaps there are representatives of the government parties here who have been, for example, in these debates that have taken place at the Regent House in connection with this, I would very much like to hear, and I believe that quite a few other Finns would like to know how things are going to proceed. I myself think that, in such a situation, for example, such different forms of collective action and the like would be extremely important — Yaha, the Minister has now arrived — and it would therefore be important to hear whether there has been any consideration as to how the government will meet because of the various damage caused to its citizens by these leaks of information. This is not only about human insults but also about the fact that these things can have an impact on, for example, the careers of these people or on the like. Now that the Minister is here, would it be possible for the Minister to start this presentation and perhaps hear some answers about the way in which the government has reacted to these data breaches?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u65	Minister Kiuru, you have the opportunity to make a presentation, no more than 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u66	Mr President! I regret that someone in that corridor stopped and went for time, which is why Mrs Essayah was already filling in, and thank you for this cover. So I listened to you then there. I am therefore sorry that I was not here in time, so you have already made it, without having time to present this package, to go through this. Mr President! So now there is a debate on how to improve the security of customer information. This is the law on the electronic processing of customer data in social welfare and health care, which entered into force on 9 February 2007. From now on, I call this the Customer Information Act because of shortening the name of the law here when we go over the details. Since the entry into force of the Act, it has been amended 13 times because of changes in the operating environment, the development of information technology and other changes in legislation, indicating that it has been known to live in the past. The Customer Information Act and the related other legislation on social and health care electronic services, in particular the e-prescription Act, have been very visionary but at the same time goal-oriented in concrete measures to promote customer-oriented digitalisation, information management, data integration and integrated operating models in Finland. National information system services, i.e. Kanta services, consisting of an electronic prescription, the national electronic patient file archive, the archiving service and the associated database of medicines, the user interface of our citizens, have already largely been implemented in health care. We call it our own, and the patient's information management service. So these are the Stock Services we're familiar with. The electronic prescription has been mandatory since 2017, and the processing of prescriptions in healthcare and pharmacies is digital. In 2019 more than 29 million electronic prescriptions and over 67 million deliveries were stored at the prescription centre. Part of the EU-funded project is currently implementing the cross-border implementation of the e-prescription in the EU region, and Finland has launched the service as the first country to produce in Europe, together with Estonia, at the beginning of 2019. The cross-border recipe therefore also works with Croatia and Portugal and will later be extended to other EU countries. Mr President! Here are some examples of today’s world and what development needs are. This proposal proposes to introduce a new law on the electronic processing of customer information in social welfare and health care. The proposed law is mainly based on the law in force, but with a clearer and more consistent structure of the law, its spelling and its terminology. The proposal has been drawn up on the basis of a proposal from the fallen government HE 300/2018 as a result of the end of the Parliament. So now, during this reign, we will inherit that package. The changes proposed create the conditions for the introduction of national information systems services in social services by imposing an obligation on social services providers to become users of national information systems services and by enabling the disclosure of information from the social welfare customer information archive. The draft law contains the information management provisions necessary for social and health care and the necessary amendments to the EU General Data Protection Regulation. The broad consent requested from the patient in health care would be waived. The customer would still be able to ban the disclosure of his or her data between healthcare controllers, and a similar prohibition would also be introduced in social services. In health care, the processing of customer information would continue to be subject to an IT-confirmed care relationship or other legal right. Similarly, a condition for the processing of customer data in social services would be an IT-confirmed customer relationship or other legal right. The proposal also proposes to expand the content of national information system services so that the customer can store his or her own welfare data or information produced by various welfare applications in the Own Resources. Well-being information would be available to professionals and can be used on the basis of customer consent in a secure way. The customer would have the opportunity to authorise another person to do business on his behalf electronically. The proposal supports social and health reform, especially in the early stages, when the harmonisation of customer and patient information systems is still ongoing and customer and patient registers in welfare areas are established through the Kanta-palvelut. The services support the flow of information between welfare areas and the HUS group, especially in the Uusimaa region. In addition, the data of private service providers can be stored in customer and patient registers in welfare areas with the help of Kanta services. In addition, parent services support the knowledge base for monitoring, steering and management of well-being areas. With the Customer Information Act, the availability of customer information on social welfare services will be improved. Access to social care information through the Kanta-palvelut is necessary for purposes such as those of the Act on the Secondary Use of Social and Health Data. Mr President! The processing of constitutionally sensitive and confidential information in information systems requires that all parties can rely on the technical complexity of the information systems used to comply with their principles, technical solutions and implementation and comply with all information security requirements. Among other things, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stressed in its assessment of patient registers under the Health Care Act that, in the case of a register containing sensitive information such as the Patient Information Register, it is particularly important to ensure that information security systems to prevent abuse are operational and available as soon as the system is put in place. Furthermore, from the point of view of system users, it is necessary that the information systems are compatible with each other and meet the requirements for practical functionality. The Customer Information Act contains provisions on the essential requirements and procedures for data protection and information security of social and health care information systems and for interoperability and functionality. As regards information security, the Consumer Information Act also contains provisions on the classification of information systems and requirements for information systems and information system manufacturers. In addition, as regards information security, the external evaluation body shall approve the information systems to be connected to the national information system services maintained by the Social Insurance Institution. The proposal extends the obligation for private service providers to join Kanta services to all service providers using customer or patient information systems. The information system used by them for Kantanta services must be part of the so-called ‘A’ category under the Customer Information Act, i.e. the system must have passed the interoperability testing of the Kantanta services and the data security assessment carried out by the IT assessment body. This will also result in a significant improvement in data protection as class B systems become class A with this proposal. Mr President! The laws are intended to enter into force on 1 April 2021. However, some of the amendments to the laws would only apply after a transitional period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u67	Mr President! The processing of sensitive data has two priority issues which are partly difficult to reconcile: on the one hand, the information should be as easily accessible and accessible as possible to persons who need it and who have its rights; on the other hand, the information should be as secure as possible in order to prevent abuse and safeguard the protection of individuals. We have all heard explanations and sometimes faults about how different authorities’ systems do not communicate with each other and how people’s affairs are handled without all the information that already exists. There has been a lot of discussion over the last few weeks about the data breach at the Response Centre. We can only imagine how much harm comes to recovery from the sudden publicisation of the individual’s personal therapy information. President! The Government's proposal for a law on the electronic processing of customer data in social welfare and health care is mainly based on the law in force. The aim of the proposal is to improve access to information. In the presentation, the role of national information system services, Kanta-palvelut, will be significantly expanded. For the time being, we have mainly positive experiences of national large public databases. It is of paramount importance that the security of Kanta services is successful. That is the only way we can maintain people's trust in the authorities. It will be possible for the customer to store his or her own welfare information in Kanta-palvelut. To succeed, this requires that the user has a high level of confidence that the information only goes to the persons for whom it is intended. President! When information security works, centralized national information system services enable customer care, care and service to be based on up-to-date and comprehensive information and good practices.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u68	Mr President! As the processing of electronic data continues to increase, which is good in itself, careful implementation of it becomes even more important. Trust is a key building block for modern and well-functioning societies. When public confidence in institutions and countries is undermined, the consequences can be unpredictable. One important element in the relationship of trust between citizens and the welfare state is the individual's ability to receive confidential assistance at a time of need. The seriousness and extent of the data breach at the counter office are unprecedented in Finland. As many as 40,000 people are directly affected by the break-in. Of course, the incident has caused anxiety and fear among the customers in the counterstore. Persons who have committed a break-in have taken advantage of the situation of already vulnerable people and have tightened up the dissemination of private information. This also affects the closeness of the victims. The social media was filled very quickly by the solidarity movement, which called for the non-reading and sharing of personal data derived from the data breach. At the same time, personal therapy experiences were shared and the message was sent out that everyone needs help sometimes and there is no need to be ashamed of it. The response of Some to the data breach in the Response Centre reflects the change in attitudes of Finnish society in a more positive direction. The debate on the well-being of the mind is more open and socially acceptable. This is a little flash of light in an otherwise depressing and gloomy chain of events. When a person wants effective and well - targeted help, he must provide extremely personal information about himself. Trust in the protection of personal medical data from outsiders must be maintained. This also requires standards and controls in a rapidly developing IT environment. The storage of data should, whenever possible, take place in ways that are not linked to the unique data. Compatibility with the stock system is a good condition and should be speeded up, as it will become a requirement for Class A systems, and Kela will also carry out joint testing of the systems related to the stock services. At present, the patient is asked whether he or she can be provided with information on his or her health to other doctors or medical services who are treating him or her. However, the patient is not asked what information may be recorded on the network and for how long it may be stored there, or is given the opportunity to decide when to delete the data relating to him. It should be examined whether the patient should also be given the right to do so. Mr President! The draft law before us is therefore more topical than ever. We may not be able and do not want to slow down the electrification and digitalisation of the various areas of society, but as more and more of our data are stored in different electronic registers and databases, it is important that the information security of the systems is sufficiently invested. Mr President! We are also reminded of the fact that legal provisions alone are not enough if they are not properly monitored. It is important to underline the role of accurate data protection regulations in the processing of electronic customer information about the content of the Government proposal currently under discussion. I will raise a few points from the bill relating to the security plan, self-monitoring and adequate expertise of medical staff. The bill emphasises the supervision of service providers, intermediaries and Kela and, above all, self-monitoring. It is good to go through this in committee. Article 1 would impose an obligation on the service provider, the intermediary and the Social Insurance Institution to draw up a security plan. The message repeated here in Parliament is that the weakest link in information security is most often the user himself. It's the same for the rest of the world. The aim of the security plan would be to ensure that the staff manages the use of the information systems at their disposal and can take into account the requirements relating to the confidentiality and security of customer information. The bill also takes into account the responsibilities of security plans. The service provider would be responsible for ensuring that information security, data protection and the use and maintenance of information systems are properly managed on an ongoing basis and that the data protection and information security related to the service provided by it are realised. In addition to this bill, the case of the Response Centre also clearly highlighted the needs and needs of the personal identity code reform to change the use of the personal identity code, for example in the identification process. That possibility should be completely removed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u69	Mr President! Customer and patient data are collected to ensure a safe and high-quality treatment path. The electronic location of the data is the fastest way of archiving and forwarding information, both in terms of the accuracy and security of the data. The availability of exact information has been saved and at its best saved lives. It is clear that the recording of the most personal data of people anywhere is always a risk. Therefore, municipalities, joint municipal boards, hospital districts, companies and organisations are constantly required to develop and update their customer and patient information systems, as we noticed recently in the case of the Psychotherapy Centre. You can't bargain on this. Mr President! Customer information is private and it is therefore important that a person has the right to determine the use of his or her own data. In the law presented, the customer would still be able to prohibit the disclosure of his or her data between healthcare controllers. A similar extradition ban would be introduced in social services. From the point of view of data security, it is essential that each person who opens customer information leaves a mark on the system and that no one adventures in personal information in vain. This need to improve the functioning of different customer information systems, which is also the objective, is becoming increasingly important. Ensuring that the professional is allowed to see the customer's information does not cause the employee more work than a couple of clicks, and that is necessary. The changes mentioned in the presentation contribute to the professional’s ability to plan and define the care received by the customer so that it serves people more comprehensively. At the same time, it requires us to invest more and more in the fact that a person can also safely store his data in the system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u70	Mr President! The key role of social and health care is to maintain and support the health and functional capacity of citizens. The smoother this basic task is carried out, the better for the user of the service, but also for the social and health care staff. The current legislative changes in the electronic processing of social and health care customer information also contribute to the reform of the social welfare structure. The service system must be functional and able to discuss with several operators in order to avoid disruptions in the information system that cause care difficulties and to ensure good, comprehensive and clear management and services for citizens with the support of an efficient and appropriate customer information system. On the basis of this bill, a major step forward is being taken in the electronic processing of social welfare and health care customer information, as in the future the so-called Kanta archive would store not only health care patient data but also social care customer information and well-being information. Mr President! As a general rule, this bill includes an obligation for all service providers to join the national information system services. This will allow access to information between service providers where this information is needed and has the right to process it. The customer would still be able to prohibit the transfer of his or her data between social welfare and health care controllers. From the point of view of security, it is essential that when joining the Kanta service, the subscriber should be included in the so-called ‘A’ category under the Customer Information Act, in which case it must have passed the data security assessment carried out by the IT security assessment body. This is a key step forward when we all have in mind the data breach at the Response Centre and the human distress it causes for thousands of people. The content of the national information system services would also be expanded so that the customer could store his or her own welfare data or information produced by various welfare applications in the Citizens' Own Resources. This type of citizen involvement in the maintenance of his or her health and functional capacity is to be welcomed and will hopefully increase the number of citizens' daily lives in the future. Based on the customer’s consent, this self-recorded information would also be known to the medical staff, which would give the professional a much more comprehensive view of the health and well-being. Therefore, the planning of treatment would also be improved and diversified.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u71	Mr President! Thank you, colleagues. Excellent speeches have been made here. In particular, Mr Hopsu's speech was very good. I would like to say that digital security is also a fundamental right for citizens, and this incident of data leaks in the House must have shocked us all. It's a very deep digital violence against the victims. This law, which is now being presented, will indeed be necessary — thank you to the Minister and to the Government for that. Personally, I see that such an incident like this must simply not happen again. In addition to the responsibility of political decision-makers, I believe that the authorities also have a responsibility for the way in which previous regulations have been monitored. Let me ask the minister a few questions. The first is whether or not the authorities have acted properly in this case, and I am sure that this proposal will now ensure that there is no longer any possibility of such data breaches such as that of the Response Centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u72	Mr President! I would now like to ask the Minister again what I have already raised before the Minister arrived in the Chamber. In other words, this legislation, which is so important and certainly so important in this Parliament House, which will receive good treatment, but in that sense, one might say, rests on the confidence of the citizens, that if we want to extend the processing of citizens' data to an ever greater and wider extent and also to involve the social information resources and if the private side is also obliged to join, this means that the reliability of these data processing must indeed be at the top level and we must be able to ensure that people are able to rely on these systems. In that sense, the data breach that has already been mentioned several times here, which occurred at this psychotherapy centre, the Answer Centre, has greatly undermined people's confidence in these systems and is likely to make it more difficult for citizens to be asked whether you want your information to be linked to this system. I'm sure this is one of the things that everyone in the back of the head is going through. That is why I would have liked to know from the Minister first of all: When the government met at the Regent House to consider what concrete measures are now to be taken with regard to the victims of this leak? In what way are they being helped? And when these people, apart from likely to have suffered a human tragedy here, there is also the possibility that some of them may be affected, for example, by their careers or others, has it been thought that in matters of this kind, for example, it could be possible, for example, to approach these citizens who have suffered in this situation, a class action-type approach? And how can we ensure that this type of situation will not happen in the future? Have we had any official controls in place? And then, on the other hand, if we are thinking of this legislative package now, is there any clear guidance, for example, on liability issues, that who should be responsible if something of a similar nature were to happen in the future when this legislation was in force? Is there, for example, a replacement clause inside? I think it is very important at this stage to answer these questions in order to restore public confidence in these information systems.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u73	Mr President! The Parliament has had a serious debate on this case at the responsible office and the leaking of customer information from these electronic information systems, and this, of course, is now a strong distrust of the whole system, which is affecting society. It is a great thing that the government has taken this very seriously, and that is why we are discussing this at the moment. This was and is an exceptionally serious situation in which these blackmail elements are also on top. In this regard, some representatives have now asked the government, last time Kärnä and Essayah both asked whether these new measures will now ensure that this will never happen again. That question may be a little too strong, because criminals in these matters always go ahead of what we do, so that surely such absolute assurance cannot be done, but it is clear that the government is now taking up this with all the information we have about how these safeguards can be made. And this is worrying in that these are very sensitive issues. If such customer information is released in this way, our whole system will then be questionable. I trust that the government will take this matter fully seriously, and surely 100% assurance cannot be given, but I think it is best to try to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u74	Secretary Kiuru, three minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u75	Mr President! Thank you for the good questions and the discussion. I believe that the debate in this House also shows that we really have a great deal of cooperation and a desire to work towards putting these information security issues in a different direction. Today is a historic day in which we can practically get these B-level systems out. It's been a dream for this decade. There are a wide range of sensitivity issues involved, and I am very pleased that we are able to present today a client information law in which these B-level systems become Level A, and many Members have already spoken well about it. There is, of course, the question of what a secure system is. During this time we have found that rarely any solution is perfect, but the fact is that when dealing with such sensitive information, we should make every effort to ensure that all these information security systems, which are built to protect our own data, these sensitive data, are as complete as possible, and in this respect the challenge is sufficient. It must also be said that there has been very long development work in Kela for our IT systems, but at the same time it must be said that when the world changes so much, even though we have these A-level systems at a high level of security, we still have to constantly monitor and improve their level, because otherwise everything can happen and happen. It is therefore extremely important that these information security systems should be further improved. This was well spoken of by many representatives. Mr Hopsu drew attention to this improvement in self-monitoring, as did Mrs Essayah, who both asked about tightening up these responsibilities. It is essential to remember that the security system is first controlled by the person who maintains it. It is the first starting point, that is to say, the person or operator who can collect such data on the register must be aware of its responsibility, and in this respect the improvement of liability issues is particularly important in that the information security plan is now part of a very serious work on social and health care. As far as self-monitoring is concerned, the way in which we must be even more responsible for the way in which the systems are monitored will be tightened up. As regards Valvira, the big question is also about increasing Valvira's resources. We have been hoping for more resources for Valvira in the past for these important tasks, and I believe, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u76	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 45 minutes shall be reserved for the referral and the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u77	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes improvements in the treatment of medical matters in social insurance institutions. This proposal relates to the correction of the shortcomings in the insurance doctor system, which is included in the Government Programme, which is also the basis for the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the relevant citizens' initiative. The decisions of social insurance institutions should always state clearly, understandably and objectively why a decision has been reached. The content of the statement of reasons is particularly important when a negative decision is taken on the application for a benefit. This bill provides for more detailed provisions on the content of medical opinions given by insurance doctors in their expert role. The insurance doctor should draw up his opinion in a clear, understandable and general way so that the opinion can even be used as such as part of the reasoning behind the decisions of the insurance institutions. The insurance doctor must also confirm his position in the words ‘my knowledge, expertise and conscience’. At the same time, the reference to Article 23 of the so-called Professionals Act is deleted from the legislation relating to the proposal. The legal reference has not fulfilled the role originally thought of for it, but has been likely to give rise to mistrust of the social insurance system. In this way, efforts will also be made to clarify the difference between the duties of the medical professional and those of the treating physician. The amendments contained in the proposal are proposed to enter into force as soon as possible after their adoption.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u78	Mr President! There are probably few individual issues in which we Members of Parliament receive as much mail from the citizens as the insurance doctor's system and the shortcomings it has experienced. Although the starting point for the activities of the insurance profession has been to ensure equal treatment, yet citizens, one can say, the practical experience of life is that the decisions taken in the insurance system are arbitrary and are not based on an overall assessment of the situation of the patient. I remember that last season, this debate and the criticism that took place around this system led to a citizens' initiative coming into the Chamber, which quickly collected its 50,000 required signatures. In this initiative,the very word ‘arbitrarily’ was explicitly mentioned,that is to say,the deepsensitivity of citizens,that these doctors,who do not meet with and do not need to consult with the patient,are then covered by a series of In that sense, I can say that it is good that the government has made this proposal and is trying to bring clarity to this situation, but in this context I would like to say that I believe that the whole system of insurance doctors should be developed more widely and above all to gain an understanding of what these insurance doctors are actually doing and that people should be better able to rely on this system's functionality and fairness. This government proposal now assumes that these words in the medical opinion are added to this legislation, ‘my knowledge, expertise and conscience’, but this certainly does not mean that this legislation is being written. It is worth noting that this debate may not always go through what these so-called insurance doctors are doing. That role and job description do not necessarily correspond to that state, and in that sense this also distorts this debate. However, it is not the job of an insurance doctor to treat that disease, but to apply clinical medicine to social insurance and private insurance regulations. And as part of this work, it is then to assess a person’s ability to work on the basis of information from health care. According to the law, age and education, work experience and living conditions also affect the evaluation. The doctor makes these decisions not only alone, but also together with lawyers and other experts. But there is a very strong perception among citizens of what the Finnish proverb says,that its songs are singing, whose bread you eat,and I think one of the major reasons why this misunderstanding has remained is precisely this misunderstanding of the job and above all this ‘insurance doctor’s use of this term ‘insurance doctor’,because this insurance doctor,as well as the above factor, applies medical practice to social insurance or private insurance legislation,andthat there is a great deal more justification for making legal amendments to the fact that this insurance doctor’s title would be changed to include,for example,an insurance medical expert,where citizens would have to have a clear picture of the fact that this person is not a medical doctor. So this kind of clearer terminological difference between this treating physician and the insurance doctor should be, and it would certainly also better correspond to these practical divisions of work that are at present. In the previous period, a part of the Christian Democrat Group left a written question on this issue, and I think that although it is good that even minor improvements are made to the insurance doctor's system, I hope the Minister will consider whether it would be appropriate to change this whole insurance doctor's title as well, because, in fact, the public is getting the wrong idea of what these insurance doctors are actually doing, and that is for its part why confidence in this system is poor and bad. It is, of course, a good thing that a little is being corrected, but I would hope that this will not be the only correction of what is being done about the insurance doctor system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u79	Mr President! This government proposal has really been awaited. I know that, because I am getting even inquiries from the citizens about when the insurance doctor system will finally be changed. Now is the time, and the first step to change has been taken — good, because the system really needs to be corrected. Unfortunately, I do not believe that this correction is aimed at where the need is greatest. The most significant injustice experienced in the system is that the insurance doctor has the opportunity to walk over the doctor’s statement. In my two years as a Member of Parliament, I have been working on this issue. In my own bill last season, I put forward a reverse burden of proof in which the insurance company must be able to demonstrate the patient’s remaining ability to work. Now the patient has to prove his own disability and is able to show that the doctor who treated him is correct. This is a rather strange legal point of departure. The insurance doctor therefore has the last word and the power to declare the pension applicant capable of working without seeing the patient. This is not going to change, according to the motion. Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to include more detailed provisions in the pension laws on the way insurance doctors are required to take a stand on medical reports handled by institutions. The contributions should be drawn up in a clear and uniform manner. In particular, in the event of a pension application being withdrawn, the decision should be justified with particular care so that the applicant understands why. However, this is not a new idea, but a working group set up by Minister Paula Risiko to reform the insurance doctor system in 2014. As a result, laws were changed, but the change remained mostly cosmetic. The same danger exists in this proposal. Until now, a derogation from other doctors has also been thrown over the estimates made by the insurance doctors of the shadow to avoid signing their documents through honor and conscience. The Government’s proposal therefore proposes that in future the opinion of the insurance doctor should be confirmed in the words ‘the period of knowledge, expertise and conscience available’. This is the so-called duty of truth that I myself have proposed. However, this amendment is watered down by the statement in the proposal that the amendment would not affect the legal obligations of the insurance doctor or the responsibilities of the civil servant. Thus, the insurance company still bears no responsibility for the assessments it makes. Think of it, if the patient tried to mislead the insurance company, the charge of fraud would snap immediately. If an insurance company makes a fraudulent statement about a patient, which is annulled through years of complaints and legal proceedings, the insurance company, with interest, will only have to pay what it should have replaced anyway. Some kind of real sanction would also be required for insurance companies. Mr President! One of the flaws in the insurance system is for years, even more than 10 years, a lengthy cycle of complaints and handling. This government proposal does not interfere at all, although it states that, according to the Constitution, everyone has the right to have their case dealt with properly and without undue delay. No one can justify that 10 years of processing is in any way reasonable. I would have liked some kind of maximum time and a clear path for the process to go from start to finish. In addition, it would also be useful to prevent delays in processing times, for example by means of sanctions. Mr President! I very much hope that the committee will take the matter on board in a broader perspective than the government's proposal. I do not believe that the proposal as it stands is in line with the unanimous demand of the citizens, or even of Parliament, to correct the shortcomings of the insurance doctor's system. The current system is not in line with the rule of law that Finland should strive towards.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u80	Mr President! It is good that efforts are being made to clarify and develop the activities of insurance doctors by updating the law. However, with this reform, the basic problems have not been removed from the table. A small person is often at large when an insurance doctor’s decision is needed. These decisions often have a lasting impact on people’s future. From an individual’s point of view, the health and financial consequences of decisions are devastating. It must also be borne in mind that it is also a matter of social importance when it is possible to decide on decades of careers, pensions and livelihoods and, of course, often huge sums of money in connection with rehabilitation or other health care measures. In addition, these cases are not one or two a year, but a large bundle. Mr President! I find it quite incomprehensible that legislation does not guarantee greater security for the ordinary person, whose livelihood may be at stake for the rest of his life, in relation to the decisions of insurance doctors. It is good that there is clarity and transparency in the explanatory statement. However, the proposal will not put an end to the core problem, since decisions can still be taken in the same way, on the basis of documents alone, even without meeting the patient. The problem arises in situations where the benefit is not granted in full. The only way to guarantee the patient’s legal certainty is to ensure that he is adequately examined to establish an impartial decision based on medical facts. Should this serious flaw not have been taken more into account in the proposal? The Finns have tried to influence the malfunctions of insurance doctors during the last season, for example, through Lex Ronkainen, and just as Mr Ronkainen has just said, there are many problems that the proposal does not solve. It is important that the committee takes these problems fully into account. The people are waiting for a better end. In 2014, I asked a written question and also in 2015 regarding the publication of specialist doctors' qualifications and the need to identify and know their expertise in the case of those concerned. Often these issues, which are debated, are due to the fact that these pension papers do not come, even though top doctors have found that a person is not capable of work, for example. In other words, the arguments that a person receives from an insurance institution are often very limited and need to be improved. The fact that a person is not examined or met at all with insurance doctors and districts seems quite incomprehensible. Yes, this is so important that through this there should also be an insurance doctor able to make that decision. It is not uncommon for years of legal struggle to continue and continue to the very future, almost to the death, and this is not the case. I have a lot of cases, too, not exactly close to you, but people I know. One incident: there was an electric shock at work, almost fatal. Since then, this person has been fighting with the insurance company for many years as to whether or not he is entitled to compensation. The person is constantly incapacitated by blood clots and completely incapacitated in the NUS at checkup and often stays in the hospital for long periods of time, and yet the fight continues, and he has not received any decisions. This is not the kind of history we want to hear, but the right decisions based on reality. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u81	Mr President! Good speeches have been made in this Chamber to illustrate the particular importance of the matter before us and we are all aware of the many flaws involved in this matter of insurance doctors. The need to correct these shortcomings has been long and very obvious in the debate. That conversation has been going on for a long time. Now, with these legislative changes, partial clarifications and improvements are being made to this system. The need for this reform has also been enshrined in the Government Programme and, as has been heard, the citizens' initiative has also been implemented in the last period. The insurance doctor system has appeared to many as confusing and unfair, and it is therefore important to further increase the transparency of the social insurance system. The reform now under discussion aims at transparency in the processing process, strengthening the transparency of the insurance doctor system and increasing public confidence in the system. The amendment will improve the status of beneficiaries by requiring that the medical arguments contained in the decisions of the insurance institutions be more understandable and clearer. With the reform, more detailed provisions will be added to the law on the doctor’s views. This will clarify the compensation process and the role of the medical practitioner of the insurance institution, thus improving the overall picture of the treatment process and reducing the lack of confidence in the insurance institutions. The aim of the reform is also to increase the efficiency, urgency and appropriate allocation of medical resources. It is therefore proposed that the medical examiner of the insurance company should not be required to take part in the proceedings if it is manifestly unnecessary. The development of an insurance doctor's system is important, as I said earlier. This is important if people are to be treated fairly and acceptably. The legislative changes now under discussion are a good start, but work needs to continue. It is therefore important that the government and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health continue to develop, in a comprehensive way, a system of insurance doctors to take greater account of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u82	Mr President! Problems related to the functioning of insurance doctors are a major social disadvantage. Insurance doctors have often walked past the diagnosis of the insured person’s own doctor and refused the reimbursement or pension without examination or even without meeting the person to whom the decision relates. In the blink of an eye, a sick person becomes formally healthy, but he still cannot regain his ability to work. My representative, Ronkainen, tried to solve the problem during the last parliamentary term. He took the initiative to require insurance companies to take decisions on compensation and pensions on the basis of the diagnosis of their own doctor. In the event of a deviation from this, the application for reimbursement should be proved false on medical grounds. Mr President! The proposal before us does not solve this problem. This requires clearer arguments and confirmation of the position through the information, expertise and conscience available. However, it does not require an insurance doctor to actively obtain additional information, a second medical opinion or examine the patient himself before making a statement. Insurance doctors do not act as impartial experts but enable their employers to pay compensation to insured persons and to fatten the shareholder with large dividends on false grounds. This is an instance of an initiative that sought change. However, the gap was still unresolved. My question to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council is: on which side are you on, the small person who has suffered injustice or the insurance companies who are skimming away from compensation on questionable grounds? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u83	Mr President! In fact, quite a few things have been said here that I myself had been thinking about speaking in this debate on the referral to the bill. However, it must be said that, compared with the citizens' initiative, this is a start, but perhaps a cosmetic change. In this respect, very valuable speeches have been made in this debate on what else should be done on this side. It was an excellent idea, as Mr Essayah here put it, not to talk about insurance doctors, because in fact they do not judge the medical side but the legislation in other respects, because COPD is a COPD, is diagnosed by anyone, and the boatbone fracture is a boatbone fracture, is diagnosed by anyone, but is naturally viewed differently in the insurance system, and that is the problem. It is also seen as a problem among the citizens. But I cannot fail to stress at this point this excellent bill by Mr Ronkainen last season, in which it is precisely this reverse burden of proof that would be introduced into the insurance doctor's system, which means that when the treating doctor finds, for example, incapacity to work, then the insurance company will be released from liability only if it is medically able to prove that the treating doctor has made an incorrect suggestion. I think we should think about this. And I cannot help saying at this point that I am here for the first time, but I have long wondered about this system in which the treating doctor — it may be that for years too — the patient relationship may be ignored precisely in terms of its functional capacity and ability to work. It does seem rather unusual to have this system of ours, so I would like both the Minister and the committee to take a more fair view of this change of law now, so that the citizens too feel that they are responding to Parliament on this issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u84	President! This government proposal concerns an insurance doctor’s case, which the Finns of Finland strongly promoted last season under the name Lex Ronkainen. However, the proposal before us does not present a problem but essentially cosmetic changes, nor does it wish to correct the most important issue, namely the root cause of an insurance doctor making decisions without examining or even meeting the patient personally.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u85	Mr President! The aim of the proposal is to improve the quality of social insurance decisions, to strengthen the transparency of the system and to raise awareness of the processing process and to strengthen confidence in the accuracy of decisions. These objectives and this proposal are very much to be welcomed. There is a lot of mistrust among the public about the system, and we Members of Parliament are receiving messages in this regard. I'm sure other people get them quite often. The amendments will improve the status of beneficiaries by requiring that the medical arguments contained in the decisions of the insurance institutions be more understandable and clear. The expert should draw up his opinion in a clear and consistent manner, taking into account the essential and essential medical aspects of the current legislation on benefits. It is also proposed that the opinion of the medical practitioner should be confirmed in the words ‘the period of knowledge, expertise and conscience available’. During the processing period, the social and health sector and patient organisations in particular have considered this lyric to be important. Mr President! This proposal will help to take the insurance doctor system in the right direction. The Board of Directors has already started to make corrections to the insurance doctor’s systems in accordance with the guidelines set out in Parliament’s report in 2018. One year ago, Parliament adopted a change in law proposed by the government, which introduced an obligation for university hospitals to give medical expert opinions to the courts. This amendment will allow the courts to obtain independent expert opinions on insurance medical matters funded by the State. The aim of that amendment was for the judiciary to receive the medical expert reports they needed and thus to improve the legal security of the applicants. The Advisory Board for the Development of the Insurance Doctors' System is currently still sitting and will continue to reflect on the development of the system. Mr President! In this connection, I would like to ask the Minister: what do you see as possible further developments or needs in the insurance doctor's system?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u86	Secretary Bakonen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for the good debate and the good comments you made. Mr Sarkkinen said that we still have this advisory board on the insurance doctor system, and I will also give these greetings to the advisory board for further development. Indeed, this system is to be developed on a long-term basis, and I also consider this to be an excellent referral debate not only for Parliament but also for the ministry. Mr Essayah is quite right that we need to further develop the job descriptions and we also need information on the job descriptions, and we have also discussed this issue a great deal, the changes in the development of the insurance doctor system. If you think about what the government has already done, a year ago we in this Parliament passed a law in which university hospitals were obliged to give medical expert opinions to the courts in exchange for a special allowance, and the change would allow the courts to obtain expert opinions on insurance medical matters, regardless of the parties involved. The aim is for the judiciary to have access to the medical expert reports they need and to improve the legal security of applicants for redress. And in the future, the applicant does not have to pay the costs of the expert opinion when the court has requested the opinion on its own initiative. President! To Mr Ronkainen and Mr Lundén, I would like to say that the medical doctor alone cannot reverse the doctor's position. In the interests of equal treatment of applicants for benefits, legal certainty and the financial sustainability of compensation schemes, it is not possible for the benefit solution to be based solely on the opinion of the treating physician, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u88	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u89	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to provide for a state guarantee to insure the covid-19 vaccine. The aim is to ensure that any personal injury caused by covid-19 vaccines is insured as well as any other medical or vaccine damage. The proposal relates to Finland’s future acquisition of vaccines for the prevention of covid-19 disease. The insurance amount of the medical injury insurance is EUR 4 million for each of the victims and EUR 30 million for all the damages for which the claim relates to the same calendar year. The pharmaceutical accident insurance company is so small that without reinsurance it would not be able to bear the EUR 30 million liability. It is obvious that the pharmaceutical company does not receive the necessary reinsurance protection on the market and, without a State guarantee, should exclude the damage caused by covid-19. The replacement of reinsurance with the State guarantee would not change the position of potential victims compared to the present one. Compensation for any damage caused by the corona vaccine would be sought from the pharmaceutical accident insurance company. Compensation for damage would be subject to the current medical injury insurance conditions, which would aim to ensure equal treatment for victims regardless of the medicine or vaccine involved. The widespread vaccination of citizens has been estimated to be an effective measure to prevent the spread and disease of the virus, which would also allow the dismantling of other measures to combat corona. Coronavirus pandemic has affected society, economy and employment in a wide range of ways. A well-functioning system for the reimbursement of vaccine harm can be estimated to have an effect on people’s willingness to take the vaccine. Therefore, the presentation could improve the future vaccination coverage and thus indirectly reduce the effects of corona pandemic in the longer term. The proposed law is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u90	Madam President! As we have read and heard in recent news, much promising information has finally been received about the expected covid-19 vaccine. This vaccine is expected all over the world. The draft law on the state guarantee for covid-19 vaccine in the referral debate anticipates future vaccination at national level. The purpose of the proposal is to ensure that any personal injury caused by vaccines is insured, just as all other medical and vaccine damage in general. In Finland, personal injuries caused by vaccines and medicines are insured by a private medical accident insurance policy. The policyholders are manufacturers, importers and marketers of medicines. In Finland, only one company, Finland's Mutual Pharmaceutical Insurance Company, normally reduces its own insurance risk by taking out so-called reinsurance from the market. With regard to the Covid-19 vaccine, the risk of reinsurance from the market is too unknown when the vaccine itself does not exist in practice. The conditions for granting the State guarantee are therefore met. The State would therefore play the role of reinsurer, taking into account the part of the financial liability of the compensation expenditure of the insurance company that issued direct insurance. The guarantee could be provided, as the Minister stated in his presentation, at most for a calendar year at a time, and the State's liability in the current situation could not exceed EUR 30 million for one company. I think it is important that we are prepared in advance to receive the covid-19 vaccine, including in the case of possible unwanted personal injury. That is what this bill is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u91	Mr President! Just as the previous speaker said, fortunately, there has been positive news from the front of the corona vaccine study in recent days when promising results have been obtained. We hope that soon we will have a reliable, safe vaccine here in Finland as well. Of course, this proposal to convince the corona vaccine is very important and, in order to avoid these vaccine damage and these compensations being necessary, the vaccine should be carefully examined and used for the time required for the investigation, although, of course, there is currently a feverish expectation of vaccination throughout the world. But in Finland we must remember the very traumatic vaccine damage caused by swine flu. I would like to ask the Minister: has there been a discussion with the THL or the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health about what might be the order of vaccination in Finland, that is, in which order different groups of people in Finland would first go to vaccinate and which groups would be prioritised here? Or, if this has not yet been decided, by what process will this perhaps be decided, and at what stage could the public be informed about this? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u92	Madam President! Indeed, as colleagues have said here, I hope that this bill will come at the very time of the count, which means that we now have the first, could we say, more reliable news that this kind of vaccine, which is working on this disease, has now been developed? Indeed, as has been said here, it is still a long way before a vaccine can be given to Finland and vaccination can be started. That is why it is important to grant this state guarantee for the vaccine, because, as described above, in a situation like this, this small reinsurance company would probably not be able to find similar reinsurance for its own business, and in that sense it is important for us to have a state guarantee to help in this situation. This insurance is therefore exactly the same as in all previous insurance policies, which means that we should not draw the conclusion that somehow this would be a particularly risky vaccine when applying for this guarantee. Unfortunately, in Finland, we have these cases of narcolepsy with swine flu, which have certainly contributed to undermining the confidence of Finns in this type of vaccine, especially because some of the vaccines produced this type of side effect. And the question was already asked as to the order in which vaccination is to be carried out in Finland. Likely — I could imagine — in all countries, health care staff, who are at the forefront of this so to speak, will be at the forefront of the availability of these vaccines, and certainly then, as vaccines are being received into Finland through this joint acquisition of the EU, they will be aware of the speed and speed with which citizens can be vaccinated. This is where some media house was asking if there was a need for vaccination in the Parliament a few days ago. I believe that vaccines, as has been the case so far, have been well informed, and that the public has been informed of these vaccines, we have a good vaccination coverage. I do not think we should go into any kind of coercion. For its part, it would certainly also be an issue which, on the contrary, would act as a psychological deterrent to the public with regard to this vaccine, and in that sense good information and the fact that vaccines will continue to be voluntary is extremely important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u93	Secretary Bakonen, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u94	Mr President! Thank you for your good contributions and comments. I would like to say that this proposal, which I presented, has nothing to do with the procurement, distribution or vaccination of vaccines. Finland is involved in an EU cooperation agreement for the procurement of coronavirus vaccines, and the European Medicines Agency, the EMEA, grants a marketing authorisation for vaccines after careful evaluation of their efficacy and safety, as has been sharpened by a number of representatives. The first vaccines may be expected at the turn of the year, and only small batches are likely to be available at the first stage. Minister Kiuru is responsible for the national vaccine programme, and I am sure he will also respond to these questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u95	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u96	Mr President! The Ministry of Employment and the Economy has prepared a draft law amending the Competition Act. The competition law would mainly be subject to the amendments required by the EU Directive on the enforcement powers of national competition authorities. In addition, the proposal proposes to make changes to the assessment of the amount of penalties based on national needs. This proposal will improve the enforcement of restrictions on competition and thus contribute to ensuring the competitiveness of the market. In addition, the implementation of the Directive in the Member States will harmonise the capacity of national competition authorities to implement EU competition rules. The amendments made on the basis of the Directive strengthen the powers of investigation, decision-making and sanctioning of restrictions on competition. The implementation of the Directive will increase the powers of the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency and extend the powers of the Courts of Justice of the Office relating to penalties and periodic penalty payments. The amendments would also include, for example, provisions on exemption from penalties and reduction of penalties and rules on information for the Competition and Consumer Protection Office. In addition, cooperation between EU national competition authorities would be stepped up. The Act is intended to enter into force as required by the Directive on 4 February 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u97	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 9/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Statement by Mr Kymäläinen, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u98	Madam President! The Committee on Transport and Communications has completed its report on the so-called package of amendments to the Road Traffic Act. The proposal makes various minor corrections and clarifications to the new Road Traffic Act, which entered into force on 1 June 2020. Last spring, the committee decided on a very exceptional solution in the context of the spring and the challenging circumstances of exceptional circumstances and adopted a significant part of this government's proposal in the context of its report on home-care parking. This was necessary in order to deal with the provisions in question before the entry into force of the new Road Traffic Act on 1 June 2020. These provisions, already adopted in the spring, have now been deleted from the committee's report. The committee has drawn attention to the fact that the texts contained in the traffic signs images in both the Finnish-speaking and Swedish-speaking road traffic laws are mainly in Finnish. In its report, the committee considers it very important in principle that the Ministry of Transport and Communications examine and evaluate, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Swedish-language office of the Parliament, whether the Swedish language version should contain the texts of the images of the traffic signs in Swedish. In addition, the committee has drawn attention to the problems of incompatibility in the information systems of the Government and Parliament. The committee has made a number of minor corrections and clarifications to the proposal and, among other things, has clarified the mandate of the Ministry of Defence for the use of Defence Forces vehicles. Madam President! For snowmobile routes: The Road Traffic Act, which entered into force at the beginning of June 2020, should also have allowed vehicles and bicycles drawn by animals to drive on snowmobile routes. However, the expert consultation showed clear safety risks if these vehicles were to be used on snowmobile routes together with snowmobiles. The committee has therefore amended the regulation on snowmobile routes so that in the future, the traffic mark on snowmobile routes in the Road Traffic Act will only be valid at a snow-covered time and the snowmobile route will then only be allowed to be driven on snowmobiles. In other times, the usual rules and principles to be followed when moving around the forest and terrain would be observed. In addition, the keeper of the snowmobile route may, at his discretion, also allow the use of other vehicles on his route by means of a textual additional plate. The Committee considers it important that in such a case the route manager carefully evaluates the suitability of the route for the use of these vehicles, particularly in terms of safety. The amendment harmonises the regulation of the Road Traffic Act and the Road Traffic Act and promotes road safety on snowmobile routes. Mr President! Still on child restraints: With the entry into force of the new Road Traffic Act, it became mandatory to wear a protective helmet of an approved type for snowmobile use also in children. In the past, ski helmets have been used in various snowmobile safaris and similar activities in children due to the fact that previously approved protective helmets were so heavy that they could cause unnecessary strain on the child’s neck. However, helmets have developed and there is no significant difference in weight. However, the committee has introduced a transitional provision to allow children under seven years of age to wear a ski helmet over the snowmobile season that is about to begin, i.e. from 1 June 2021. A transitional provision is necessary to allow operators in the sector to renew their protective helmet equipment. In addition, the committee has amended the regulation on protective equipment for snowmobile trailers so that existing equipment can be used up to the end of their life cycle without the renewal of trailers. Mr President! The report contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u99	Madam President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for a good presentation. I must say that we were able to agree on almost everything with the government, but not everything, unfortunately. This was a package so big last season that it is quite clear that the series of corrections had to be made, and in good cooperation in committee they have been made on the Government-Opposition front, with the exception of one technicality. What I'm focusing on here is snowmobileing. The chairman of the committee put forward a great deal of other things and this too, but it is great that these snowmobile routes were now brought to a sensible model, i.e. no separate ban signs that need to be placed on the bend and bend, but that a certain mark should allow access to it if it is safe. Safety above all, and that is why, for safety's sake, we wanted the whole committee to be unanimous in wanting everyone else out of there, that is to say, no dog sleds, nor cyclists — that is a safety issue. The industry really wanted this to happen, and this has been achieved. Of course, if there are good conditions in one of the mountains, it may be permitted for dogs and cyclists to come. This is a great thing. That is something we can all welcome, and the operators in the sector are also satisfied with. Madam President! Then let's go to these protective equipment. That is a good thing that has come to light here, these snowmobile sleighs, trailers, so that we do not have to change them now, and we do not have to go to them to build protective structures, safety belts and the like, because it is not even practically possible. Which means they can be used until the end of their life cycle. It's a great thing for entrepreneurs in the business. That is another matter when they are renewed as to whether they are equipped with safety belts and their equivalents for children. It is, of course, important for children, but it is quite unreasonable if, in this economic situation, entrepreneurs were to go out and demand new sleighs — certainly not. But then comes something that unfortunately we did not agree on: it is the helmets of children. After all, it has now been standard practice for children to wear a ski helmet, that is, an approved ski helmet, while riding a snowmobile. Now that we have heard experts in this field, there is a lack of statistics, but no statistics show that a child's injury to these snowmobile safaris is very likely, especially a head injury, and that is why we in our group, that is to say in the assembly, would have left this approved ski helmet suitable for the future. In the meantime, I would point out that if the speed of a snowmobile reaches 20 km/h, then there is no need to wear a helmet, but above that, and unfortunately we have not reached agreement on this. For us too, the safety of children is all that matters, and it might have been done with this ski helmet, but the government, as the chairman suggested, started that such a snowmobile helmet must be purchased. Well, we're part of it, but now the situation is that the government thinks it should have been next year's summer, on June 1, and from then on, that helmet will be acquired. We assume that it would have been two years longer, 1.6.2023. This is now based on this very economic situation. Families, and also tourism entrepreneurs, are severely affected by the corona. According to recent information, for example, TUI cancels all British Christmas trips, and that's really bad. This helmet is smaller, but it may become a big thing, and that is why we went to protest. Of course it will be presented in more detail tomorrow, but it contains the content: ‘In view of the difficult economic situation caused Entrepreneurs in the sector and families engaged in snowmobiling must have a period of at least two years longer than that proposed by the committee to obtain appropriate protective equipment. Persons under 7 years of age shall be allowed to wear a ski helmet instead of a type-approved helmet until 1 June 2023.’ And: ‘On the basis of the above,we propose that the legislative proposals be adopted in accordance with the Committee’s report,except1.The This will then be formally presented tomorrow, but I would nevertheless like to thank the committee for its good cooperation despite this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u100	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for a good presentation and thank Mr Tolvanen for his very well-founded thinking on that helmet model. I'm a huge helmet supporter. It's almost anything. In fact, a few weeks ago a bicycle helmet probably saved my own three - year - old son’s face from worse injuries. In that sense, I fully understand this committee's report, but at the same time I would also like to emphasise the fairness with which we must treat entrepreneurs and those families who are actually involved in snowmobileing. It is important to me that, firstly, we give people the responsibility to do what they feel is right and then we also give them the opportunity to carry on financially, and if this timetable brings certain challenges, although it has a good transition period, then it is quite commendable that Mr Tolvanen said that the transition period would be a little longer, especially since there was no significant evidence that the use of a ski helmet would somehow increase the risk of injury. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u101	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 10/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Chairman of the Committee Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u102	Madam President! The Committee on Transport and Communications has dealt with the Government's proposal to extend the halving of fairway charges in 2021 and is now presenting in its report the approval of the Government's proposal unchanged. The aim of the Government's proposal is to support industry and industry and Finland's competitiveness in the current situation by compensating for the loss of revenue and profitability challenges incurred by commercial shipping and its transport customers under economically uncertain conditions. Fairway charges have been collected halved since 2015. Madam President! The committee has consulted experts and some of the more far-reaching concessions have been sought in this consultation for the payment of fairway charges. The current corona crisis has affected the Finnish export industry. The Committee notes, however, that the various support measures should be considered as part of the package of policies and measures taken by the government to date in response to the covid-19 situation. That is why the committee welcomes the government's proposal and welcomes it as unchangeable. As President, I would like to thank the committee for its good cooperation on the previous road transport law and on the handling of these fairway charges. Nevertheless, Mr President, this report also contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u103	Madam President! Finland is an export-driven country whose economy and wealth are strongly based on exports. A large part of the flows of goods in Finland's international trade are transported by sea. It is vital that the export-driven economy does not itself legislate against the burden of exports. Fairway charges entered into force in 2005 and were halved in 2015. Now is a good time to remove them altogether at the latest. Now, unfortunately, government action is merely a hugging of the old at a very challenging time. For the Baltic Sea, the competitive environment is distorted. By removing the fairway fee, Finland’s competitiveness will be improved towards the same level as other Baltic Sea countries. National payments and taxes play a major role in the location of companies and, as a result, in the Finnish economy. Finnish enterprise must be brought into line with other countries in the Baltic Sea. Companies pay the fairway fee as additional costs in connection with sea freight. Fairway charges also have an impact on transit traffic in Finland. The route through Finland is not competitive compared to other countries in the Baltic Sea. The abolition of fairway charges is also an environmental act. The efficiency of maritime transport must be promoted as part of the decarbonisation of transport. The current fairway charging system means that every port visit means a new fairway charge. This has a direct impact on the reduction in transport efficiency and, for example, no cargo is taken or left at different ports in Finland due to the fairway charge. Efficiency is therefore directly linked to environmental objectives. I submitted a legislative initiative on this last June and, as the challenges posed by the interest rate show, this change in the law is just becoming more and more important. The abolition of fairway charges may seem complicated and difficult to understand, but in the end it is a question of Finnish jobs. So now we have to act. I would therefore like to suggest that a proposal in accordance with the objection be taken as the basis for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u104	Madam President! From the outset, I would like to say that I support this objection made by Mr Beautifulto that I will not forget it here — now it has been done. And all I can do is praise Mrs Kaunto, who has already taken this bill in June on this same issue, but unfortunately the interest rate has blocked its initiative and still prevents it, but fortunately these legislative initiatives are now being brought forward to the committees. This is a really important and good thing for Finland, an export-driven country, from which freight traffic travels very much by sea, and now it is pointless for us to keep legislation that burdens us. As the chairman of the committee, who has now been able to leave, said, the experts also believe that further measures should have been taken, that is to say a small fee, but unfortunately this did not lead to a result. This would have been vital, especially now in this period of the corona pandemic, because the economy is already in difficulty. In other words, although cooperation in committee — as the chairman of the committee said — is excellent, we still have to do and support this protest, which Mrs Kausto has raised here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u105	Irade fru talman! Förslaget om fortsatt cheaperade farledsavgifter är viktigt och stöder finländsk export och sjöfart samtidigt som det stöder just exporten när avgifterna blir lägre. Det är ändå viktigt att hålla kvar systemet med farledsavgifter effectom det skapar ett incitament för att säkerstalla att Finland har regelbundna transporter till och från Finland samt att det säkersteller att det finns fartyg som kan trafikera Finland vintertid uta isbrytarassians. Farledsavgifterna används bland aet för att finansiera isbrytning, och därför är det logiskt att de fartyg som inte har någon isclass och inte kan trafikera Finland vintertid betalar en högre farledsavgift, Vilket man gör med dagens system. Det auri skapar ett incitament att det finns fartyg med hög isclass för att upprätthålla transporter till och från Finland också under en sträng isvinter. Farledsavgifterna blir också lägre för de fartyg som regelbundet trafikerar Finland, Vilket stöder finländsk sjöfart under finländsk flagg. Jag skulle rekommera de samlingspartistiska ledamöterna att studera hur det ox farledsavgiftssystemet faktiskt funkar i practicekken, för det är inte så svartvitt som man kanske först tror. Av den anledningen är det bra att ha farledsavgifterna kvar som system men att hålla dem hallarade för att stöda exporten. Det är en bra compromise som jag hoppas att kan fortsätta också under komande år. Irade the Talman! I fjol var jag inbjuden till ett seminarium i Sveriges ricksdag för att beretta om Finlands system med farledsavgifter. Organisationen Svensk Sjöfart ordnade seminariet. Sverige har på ett sätt ganska likanande förhållanden som Finland effersom hamnarna uppe i norr behöver isbrytare som assistants vintertide. Det är välkommett att Finland och Sverige tillsammans utvecklar en ny generation isbrytare, och det skulle vara fantasticskt om också Sveriges nya isbrytare kunde byggas är i Finland där de facto en majoritet av alla världens isbrytare är byggda. Men branschorganisationen Svensk Sjöfart rain på seminariet att man skulle önska att Sverige hade samma system med farledsavgifter som Finland har, att man skulle ha farledsavgifterna kvar — Sverige har också farledsavgifter — men på en rimlig nivå, för i Sverige är de mycket högre än i Finland. Dossutom skulle man i Sverige cereals att isclass och regelbundna anlöp i hamnar skulle få en större betydelse än de har i dag, precis som vi har i dagens system i Finland. Det visar att vi överlag har ett bra system i Finland och att de cheaperade farledsavgifterna är en rätt bra och fungerande nivå då de stöder både finländsk sjöfart och finländska fartyg under finsk flag med finländsk besättning och samtidigt stöder exporten. Jag vill tacka communicationutskottet för ett bra arbete med detta samt regeringen för för förslaget. Jag hoppas man redan nu börjar förbereda att hålla farledsavgifterna på den pitaraade nivån också för år 2022.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u106	Madam President! The government proposal is excellent. Finland's well-being depends purely on whether we can export different products, trade them abroad, and slightly over 90 per cent of our export goods are shipped abroad from Finnish ports, which is a good illustration of the importance for Finland of this continuation of shipping from Finland without disruption and so that it is profitable for those who carry out that shipping. Then we must remember that when Finland is far away from the main markets, it is extremely important to organise this cheap transport to that market for Finnish products. Another important factor, of course, in such times as what we are now living in, is that, although this corona virus is raging, so we can continue to secure shipping profitability at least at a reasonable level, and another thing are of course these environmental factors, the fact that when a ship is hit with a lot of stuff, then it discharge per tonne transported is much, much smaller than for example truck freight, if you drive even countries along towards Europe, which is really very difficult then. For the forest industry, these cargoes are extremely important. Almost all timber and pulp and paper and whatever is exported is always on board. That is why this government proposal is very welcome and very good. I therefore hope that such fixed-term laws will one day be completely abolished and put this matter in order and at the same time ensure that Finland's export trade works and that Finnish products are in demand on the world market.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u107	Mr President, värderade talman! An excellent speech from Mr Hoskos just now, and I would also like to take a short look at Mr Löfström's speech. Mr Löfström stressed the importance of maritime transport also operating in winter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u108	Madam President! What do we need exports for? We need exports so that we can finance imports that are vital for Finland. We have an incredible export industry in Finland. It has been one of the major sources of well-being for us Finns throughout the ages, and it will hopefully continue to be. But it does not happen automatically, at least not under the challenges of the corona. We need an active state to improve the competitiveness of our country, to reduce unnecessary taxes and to act in the future, not in the past. This was also hoped for by almost all the experts involved. Unfortunately, this living in the past has been a government theme in the middle of a crisis. Dropping the electricity tax to the EU minimum is already in the Government Programme. This is an important issue, but it is not the solution to the challenges posed by the interest rate. It is not a necessary response when the Finnish export industry plows in the swamp. That is something that has already been decided, an excellent one, but, as I said, it is not enough. Also, the continuation of the halving of the fairway fee is a lot of old-fashioned embrace. It is a value choice, how we want to build Finland: by pressing our magnificent industry into a tight fist and striking taxes at times, or by opening up Finnish companies with competitive opportunities to shine, innovate and, above all, create jobs for Finns. As a South Eastern Finn, I am shocked by the government’s line. The eastern and south-eastern part of Finland has so often been forgotten before, and now it feels like the government is forgetting us once again. Even though our future is no longer built on the roots of the big chimneys alone, industry is deep in our hearts. The forest industry, the metal industry and the finest port in Finland — these are the few things we have, and as an area we are already in the midst of challenges with the declining and ageing population, it would be reasonable, at least, for the government to understand the competitiveness of the whole of Finland through subsidies to help us in south-eastern Finland. We will not be the forgotten people, and I will continue to fight for the abolition of the fairway fee in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u109	Madam President! I wanted Mr Beautifulto to make a statement on the previous speech, in the sense that you have wondered what would happen if these bus charges were abolished. You talked about environmental measures, yes, but the services produced for commercial shipping should then be fully financed from the state budget, and that would lead to debt, tax increases, tax tightening, and I do not think that I would be quite wrong to remember now, but in this Chamber, however, the coalition has played a part in debt and tax tightening even this autumn. The characteristics of the fairway charge in terms of winter seafaring and traffic regularity would also be lost and the demand for icebreaking services could be increased. I hope that these points will also be considered when you take this matter forward, Mrs Kausanto. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u110	On this point, I would like to say that in this Chamber you are called.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u111	Irade fru talman! Systemet med farledsavgifter används för att finansiera isbrytning i Finland. På det viset kan man också bedriva vintersjöfart till hamnar som Kemi, till Brahestad, till Torneå också vintertid effectsom det finns isbrytning. Den isbrytningen finanssieras med farledsavgifterna. Om man skulle ta bort farledsavgifterna helt och hållet, hur ska man då finansiera den rai isbrytningen för att upprätthålla vintersjöfarten, eller är tanken att man inte ska använda hamnarna uppe i norr? För det andra är det ox systemet med farledsavgifterna uppbyggt på ett sådant stätt att det ger en rabatt till de fartyg som har en hög isclass. De som har en isclass som är I A Super, den allra högsta isclassen, får en betydande rabatt för att de kan köra vintertid utan isbrytning och stöd av isbrytning. På det viset så säkerstaller de att vi har trafik till Finlands hamnar året om. För om vi inte skulle ha ett sådant system som skapar inclusion för fartyg med isclass så finns det risk att vi bara har utländskt flaggade fartyg, flaggade i Panama, i Bahamas, i andra bekvämlighetsländer, och att de fartygen inte har isklas och bara kan trafikera Finland sommartid. Om vi då får en sträng isvinter, så vad gör vi då med hela exporten? Vi sätter exportnäringen på verkligt tunn och farlig is, för att uttrycka det milt. För det andra gällande farledsavgifterna ger det också en rabatt till de fartygen som regelbundet trafikerar Finland. De lastfartyg som har trafikerat Finland tio gånger per år behöver inte längre betala farledsavgift för övriga året, och samma sak gäller de passagerarfartyg som trafikerat Finland över 30 gånger — de behöver sedan inte betala den raus farledsavgiften. Det auri skapar ett stöd också för den regelbundna trafiken till och från Finland, där 70 percent av Finlands styckegodsexport och-import går varje dag. Så det raistöder faktiskt exporten och importen på ett mycket bra säkerställer att näringslivet och exporten har regelbundna tidtabeller med fartygen bort från Finland ner till Kontinten, dit exportvarorna behövs. Det ox systemet är fungerande, Sverige skulle grain ha exakt moss system. Samlingspartiet har cheaperat farledsavgifterna i förra regeringen och variant med och stött det. Det är mycket bra, och det ox systemet brode fortsätta.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u112	Mr President! Mr Löfström has already explained this logic and how fairway charges are being used to break the ice, and I believe I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Löfström when I warmly thank him for this excellent summary in Finnish. That's the logic, so I'm not going to do it again. In short, I would like to comment: Mr Kausto spoke well about exports and competitiveness, and I fully agree that we are all forced to invest in what creates the conditions for our high-processing export industry right across the whole of Finland. And yes, this government has invested and invested in research and development, innovation, the reform of the electricity tax, including labour market reforms, which will probably be heard more about. Now we must also make sure that these relatively large RRF funds are also used sensibly throughout Finland for projects and projects that create new potential for international growth, too. Mrs Kauto and I have, among other things, stressed in the Committee on the Future how research, development, innovation and business know-how in energy and environmental technologies at systemic level in particular are those with enormous potential and hundreds of billions of global markets for a small country such as Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u113	Mr President! We are having quite a lively debate here on these fairway charges and, of course, reference has been made to the fact that Finland is an export-driven country, as it is, and shipping is an extremely important export route for us, the main export route, and many have spoken, especially on the opposition side, that these fairway charges are a burden on the Finnish export industry. However, I agree with what Mr Löfström said here, for example, that we see that these bus charges actually support Finland's export efforts and the maintenance of maritime transport during the winter. Finland is located in the very north, and this is an important point. Representative Kausanto spoke in strong tone on behalf of South-East Finland and spoke specifically of Finland's largest port of export, Hamina-Kotka-port, its importance and the burden of these fairway charges in that region. In my opinion, Mr Werner here in his own speech clearly referred to the fact that this is not an actual burden, but also saw it in such a way as to support the further development and maintenance of the port in a functional way. I would have liked a representative from Kausumo — I am not from that part of Finland as a Member of Parliament, but I was born there, and my second apartment is in those parts, so I am following the development of south-eastern Finland very closely — a little discussion on another subject. I will not open the debate on this, Mr President, but I would like to say that the biggest thing about the Hamina-Kotka port, when it comes to it, is absolutely rail transport solutions, and in that sense it would be much more important to speak on this beach track and on its behalf. It would be of great importance for the further development of that port, the port of export.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u114	President! One last small speech on the importance of Finnish shipping to this country. Let us take one example which, in fact, describes the whole situation very well: the Kemi-Tornio region, where great products are produced on the world market and to which shipping is a life and a life. The Kemi-Tornio region produces about 8% of the value of Finland's exports, and, for example, the Tornio steel plant, which makes stainless steel, is entirely dependent on shipping — so that when the product is produced and heavy metal rolls are placed on the world market in Europe and elsewhere, it definitely requires its shipping. The same applies, of course, to products from the forest industry, they are a lot of space-consuming, heavy-weight, many tons on those ships when they go. We must ensure that the fairway is in good condition and then precisely so that we are able to ensure that the Finnish product is able to take off in all conditions, including in harsh winter conditions. There is one thing that I think is too little attention, or actually two things: one is this Finnish maritime know-how. For example, Wärtsilä Oy makes In Vaasa, research in the development of marine diesels and in the development of marine technology is world-class. And then another thing: Icebreaker competence in Finland is absolutely the world's top. It's a little bit, you could say a little bit, I'm not saying it's down, but there's been a little quieter talk about icebreaker manufacturing, but hopefully... Of course, this climate change is always progressing in some way, but we must remember that we have a lot of seas and icebreaking in the world, and the more northerly regions we go, the more demanding knowledge we need, and that is what we can find in Finland. We need to start getting rid of this now: we have such a climate cramp in this country, so it feels like everything is climate policy and everything needs to be put into the Climate Fund and everything needs to be put in the Climate Fund, so that all business is stopped, when domestic energy is being shut down, when the sawmill industry is going to be shut down. The opening of Sitra today, in which Jyrki Katainen came out that renovation felling should be banned in this country, is a direct blow to the heart of the Finnish export industry. I am very surprised that the state money provided by this house is being used by a troll factory that discredits Finnish activities, and I very much hope that there will be a strong response from Parliament that an institution operating with Parliament's money should be promoting the Finnish export industry. If we go on ships to export goods from this country, it obviously requires that we have industry working. Such speeches are already very quickly leading us to the fact that there will soon be no industry in this country at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u115	Madam President! I would now like to remind you that more than 90% of experts were in favour of this abolition of fairway charges — more than 90%. I would also like to remind you that the government was taking this route tax off the road forward, but then something came up that stopped it. Rowing and blanketing, that's what we're used to. I believe that the maintenance of state-owned and managed maritime routes is a basic infrastructure, just like road and rail routes, so that why should watercourses not be financed directly from the state budget? Here, the representatives of Löfström and Strand have very cleverly argued their own opinions, and I think this has been a good debate, but I may have a little murmur about some thinking about protectionism, and I think that is perhaps what we do not need in this situation, but I do believe that Finland, Finnish and Finnish companies will be fine, we will be fine if we are given equal opportunities for competition with other countries. I see no fear that we will not succeed without our efforts being pressed into a tight fist and protected there from the evil world. When Mr Werner mentioned here that the abolition of the fairway charge would lead to an increase in taxes and to all the unpleasant things that might be connected with it, it would now have to be remembered that when we talk about abolishing the fairway charge — it is a tax-like charge, and yes, it costs 50 million — the dynamic effect that we would have by abolishing the fairway charge, is that the competitiveness of companies and the Finnish export industry, the chimneys that are our pride in many, many cities around Finland, so that I am a little cramped by the idea that by taxing these companies we would rise up. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u116	Madam President! This debate on the amending budget, as has been the case quite often, has some interesting features in this Chamber. I cannot help but take the floor just now by Mr Beautifulton. He referred to protectionism, i.e. the fight against external competition. I do not quite understand what you meant by protectionism in this context. Finland has not adopted such a policy, which would therefore protect the domestic market in such a way that there should be no competition from outside. That is what protectionism is, and I have now failed to understand this reference completely. As far as these bus projects are concerned, we must remember that there are three major bus investments in this amending budget, two of which are for road or this kind of land investment, for fairway investment, and one is the Saimaa Canal, so I do not believe that the argument that there is no investment in the waterways, at least on the basis of this amending budget, is true. Madam President! Indeed, there is a need for resuscitation in this situation, where both the Finnish economy and the global economy suffer. We do not yet have a clear vision of the future, despite the fact that the first positive news has been received in relation to the corona vaccine and, in this situation, the fact that public finances also invest and generate new growth is a sensible economic policy. At the same time, it makes sense that we treat the corona as well as we can. According to the information received last week, Finland, together with Estonia, is one of the best countries to deal with the interest rate situation in Europe, and there is often a counter-question as to whether it has led to a high price for our economy. Well, of course it has, but if you compare Sweden, where the interest rate strategy was very different from the beginning, then this year the Swedish GDP is about 3.5 percentage points down, very close to the Finnish figures. Madam President! Very often, in this indebtedness debate, you also hear that all the indebtedness associated with the corona is justified, but this new additional permanent expenditure is not. I have to ask at that point which of the following additional permanent expenses should be cut: from contributions to the Defence Forces, from new fighter fleet acquisitions, from new soldiers, from refresher exercises? Is it perhaps cuts from new permanent spending on new police officers, the judiciary, prosecutors, prison? These are also those permanent expenditures, and I think that we should invest in them. Every time you ask for something to be removed and for some permanent investment to be cut off,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u117	Madam President! I want to believe that all of us in this Chamber have a common goal that our shipping routes are in order and that goods are moving and people are also moving. However, I cannot help but be surprised that, when we have also discussed the amending budget today, the Coalition Party in particular has expressed its concern that Finland will be in debt. However, in this case, the Members of the Assembly are now proposing the abolition of bus charges, 50 million additional costs — and this is not the only area for which money has been presented. You have done the right thing to share in the tourism and restaurant sector, wherever you are in difficulty with the corona. And I personally believe that this is a rather unbelievable policy at the moment: additional expenditure is being proposed but then, on the other hand, there is concern about debt. And to Mrs Kaunto I can tell you about these dynamic effects, which you mentioned, that there is a great overoptimism that these could cover such a EUR 50 million expenditure item.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u118	Madam President! This is somehow so cute how we always end up in this Chamber discussing the viewpoints of the Coalition Party. Of course it suits us, but, of course, it would like to see a committee report being discussed here in this case, but on the basis of a government proposal, which is why we are now having a debate here. For Mr Kärnä, who now seems to be carrying such great world pain as to how the coalition takes care of and sees the management of the state finances, a few remarks: Firstly, we have presented our own view on how this corresponding reduction can be covered in each of our tax options. Secondly, we will propose in our own alternative budget that this abolition of bus charges will therefore be fully covered. And thirdly: Last year, I recall, when we went through this alternative budget package, we were able to put forward credible means of creating more than 100,000 people, who, however, strengthened the entire public finances by more than EUR 1 billion. And let me say that, when I look at this left-wing government at the moment, I believe that the opposition will be able to give you a fairly firm view of its own. As far as these corona subsidies are concerned, it is true that we have supported them here. Once the government has brought proposals into this Chamber, we have supported companies to overcome this worst crisis in order to avoid the wave of bankruptcy and to save people's jobs. But I think that there is a very strong consensus in the Chamber on this point. Madam Speaker! Now, if we go over this matter itself, namely the fairway payment proposal, Mrs Kaunto here is very well-founded about the need for this whole law to be repealed. We must remember that Finnish industry has considerably higher logistics costs to bear, and it is our job to ensure that industrial activity will continue to exist in Finland in the future. If we look at the ways in which, for example, we can influence the logistics costs of industry, then if we do not interfere with fuel taxation, then the fairway charges will then be one of the concrete, essential means of doing so, and I fully support this vision of Mr Beautifulless. The fact that colleagues from the government parties here applaud this government proposal seems to me to be rather unusual because this halve has been in force since 2015 and the fact that we continue to halve does not improve the competitiveness of Finnish industry by one cent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u119	Irade fru talman! Ledamot Marttinen kommenter från en stad där man bygger fantastica fartyg, nämligen Raumo. För tilfället byggs i varvet i Raumo två färtor som skapar tusentals arbetsplatser. Aurora Botnia har isclass I A Super, MyStar har isclass I A. Båda de fartygen kommer att gå i daglig trafik mellan Finland och Sverige och Finland och Estland och bära exportvaror, och de fartygen gynnas av dagens system med farledsavgifter. Det aur har ingenting med protectionism att göra, men om man tar bort systemet med farledsavgifter helt och hållet så tar man också bort incitamentet för fartyg att överhuvudtaget ha isclass. Då kommerman minska kkonkurrenskraften för de fartyg och de rederier som har isclass, och då är det risken att man i framtide inte kommer bygga några nya fartyg med isclass. Då skulle vår export verklogen vara uute på hal is om det blir en sträng isvinter, för då skulle det inte finnas några fartyg som kan serva hamnarna uppe i norr. Det är inte protectionism att grain säkerstalla att vårt land också har exportrutter vintertid från Finland ut till containerinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u120	I would like to point out that from a permanent place, we should talk about the mask on our heads.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u121	Madam President! This is where I'm trying to answer. It is extraordinary that, as a member of the opposition party, I have to respond to the challenges of the government, but perhaps it reflects this time that the coalition is the voice of reason that should be challenged. Representative Clearly there was a different point in the list of speakers, and in that sense I am sure I understand that he did not necessarily mean everything in the way that he said it. That's all I'm going to do. Mr Kärnä raised this debate on indebtedness, and it is interesting how the representatives of the government parties are concerned about this management of the interest rate and the debt that has also been accepted by the Coalition Party, either with their eyes closed to debt in every direction or with no debt at all. I'm pretty sure there's some sort of middle ground out there where you can move around and do those analyses. And, as Mr Marttinen has excellently said, we have responsibly — perhaps atypically for the opposition party — put all things on top of the last one so that they can be covered without major damage. In all its simplicity — while I am trying to get something out of this paper: First of all, Mr Löfström, I believe that Finnish shipping companies would be able to compete. I believe in Finnish shipping companies. Yes, open competition is certainly also a good situation for them, they are good at it, and they are very good at it. The shipping fairway charge simply increases the logistics costs of companies and it tightens, weakens competitiveness; it must now be accepted even after expert advice. I understand that there are different shades in this debate, but this is how it is going to be. After all, it is, as I have said, a question of jobs for Finnish people, and that is something to be appreciated. In that sense, in fact, I am a little surprised that the Finns of Peru have not come to the same conclusion with the Coalition Party in this matter, but when it comes to the calculation of tax-like contributions and jobs for Finns, and they have tried to profile themselves strongly in that regard. Once again, it is seen that the coalition is able to speak but also to make things right. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u122	Madam President! Mr Löfström, who I very much respect here, raised the issue of the Rauma shipbuilding and what a great situation we are currently in in Finnish shipbuilding, and we have also visited the Rauma Shipyard and visited the renovation and construction work on the arrival of a new vessel in Vaasa next spring. Mr Löfström is also absolutely right that the freezing class of these Finnish vessels, which we have here, is in practice the best two classes, which you raised. And I believe that this Finnish shipbuilding will be based on the very fact that it will combine new technology, high quality and precisely this Arctic vision, which will ensure that ships will be built in Finland for a long time to come. On the other hand, I do not recognise this connection of fate in the same way as in the case of Finnish shipowners and then on the other hand, which is linked to this, although it is true that, in the case of these high ice-class ships, the fairway charges are currently staggered according to what this category of ice-worthiness is and, of course, it means that, in the case of newer shipowners, which belong to these IA Super and IA categories, lower fairway charges are levied accordingly. But all the same, if we look at the measures that state power can take to safeguard the operating conditions of Finnish industry... I come from the region itself, which is the most industrialized region in Finland — Satakunta, that is, the whole area of Harjavalta, Pori region, Rauma industrial centres — and I have had a lot of discussions about how, however, Finnish industry leaves the back way in many ways, from a cost point of view, compared to many European competitors. I believe, however, that we share this concern widely in this Chamber between the various parties, but then the question arises as to what measures we can take to ensure that, in all these fine places, factories are running and business is flourishing in the future. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a concrete proposal against industry, and as far as this parafiscal charge is concerned with icebreaking, this is a parafiscal charge, which is universal and goes to the state budget, and then it is up to the state to make sure that funding is available for all the important expenditure items in its decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u123	Mr President! I do not wish to prolong this debate, but I draw attention to the same point as Mr Kärnä and Mr Könttä, to the inconsistency in the speeches made by the members of the Assembly. The assembly seems to have a great fear of taxation, but at the same time it is hoped that society will continue to produce service structures, which will then also benefit business and business. Fairway payments were a good example of this, Mr President, that is what we are talking about right now. Mr Kausto pointed out that bus fares increase logistics costs, from which businesses will suffer, just as the car tax increases logistics costs. We have a number of taxes which increase the cost of logistics or some other costs that we pay as citizens, companies, operators, but then society produces the services on which it can be carried out. There has to be an understanding of how the whole thing works right now. Here, Mr Heinonen spoke a long time ago about the amending budget, in which he thanked the government for the fineness in which interest rate measures have been taken and carried out, and good things, the municipalities have been protected, the municipalities have been protected and the municipalities have been protected, even though they are entrepreneurs in the field of performances and so on, and at the same time there is a fear that they are now in debt. It is precisely, yes, if tax money is used, then we will use public money and then it will have beneficial effects that can be appreciated, but then it will be paid for as well. That we don't have to build this fear of taxes into dogma.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u124	Madam Speaker! Let's just say very briefly: When Mr Kiljunen raised this fear of tax, it can be said that we in the assembly see that the overall rate of taxation in Finland, which is one of the highest in Europe, should be subject to a reduction, that we should have the strength and the flow of power to Finland's economy and employment at all. And now, in this direction, what this government has represented, the ever - smaller share of working people is falling into the neck with an ever - heavier tax burden. Among other things, you have decided to significantly increase fuel taxation, and now this abolition of the paraffinic diesel tax advantage, the reduction in emissions, will further tighten the costs of industry, talk about more than a couple hundred million, and they will continue to increase the transport costs of Finnish industry, Finnish companies. However, I think it is good to say here, in the interests of honesty, that we do, however, want to create a society in which work is worthwhile, in which businesses are successful and able to invest, in which case we will get more viable companies and more people to work, and then, accordingly, a stronger tax base, and then, more generally, the possibility of financing these important welfare services. That we, Mr Kiljunen, want to safeguard the future of Finnish society, but it seems that in this Chamber too we have a wide range of perspectives on how to achieve this goal. Madam Speaker! We are still behind this proposal and, as I said, this proposal, which we have discussed here today, will be included in the alternative budget for the Coalition Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u125	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 25/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u126	Mr President! According to the Government's proposal under discussion, the aim is to ensure that the impact of the regional and social reform financial reform on Åland's financial position is as neutral as possible and that the transition to a fiscal equalisation system from a cost-neutral point of view to the state budget would amount to 0,42 %. So this is stated in the government's proposal. However, despite this objective of cost neutrality, the government proposal concluded that the level of the countervailing criterion was 0,45 %. In the Government proposal before us, it is proposed to increase the countervailing criterion to up to 0.47%. In this respect, the government is falling into a clear overcompensation on the basis of the balancing criterion. This overcompensation is also reflected in the minutes of the General Session of the Council of State on 6 February 2019, and the Government’s joint contribution to it states: ‘The Government’s proposal to amend the Åland Self-Government Act is based on the preparation of the comprehensive reform of the Åland Self-Government Act,in addition to the legal and social needs, which are related to the reform of the social protection and taste reform, even if such a solution is not acceptable. “ So the government itself admits that it is overcompensating. On the other hand, we do not yet have any idea at this stage how the social and regional reform envisaged by the government will eventually succeed. Mr President! In the Constitutional Committee, the Finns submitted objections to this report on the government's proposal. In our view, the change in the criterion of compensation must not lead to financial overcompensation for the Åland Islands. For this reason, we propose that the draft law be adopted as follows: ‘In accordance with the decision of the Board of Governors, which has been made in the manner laid down in Article 47(5) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and the concession By way of derogation from Article 47(1) of the Åland Self-Government Act, the basis for the compensation is 0,42 %.’ Mr President! At the end of the day, I would like to say that, even if this increase in the compensatory criterion proposed by the government is not made, the current cash flows from mainland Finland to Åland are totally disproportionate. The ability to cope with various crises and reforms can certainly also be found in Åland on a cost-neutral basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u127	Irade fru talman! Regeringens förslag om att höja Ålands avräkningsgrund från 0,45 percent till 0,47 percent är frukten av ett långt och viktigt arbete effecter ett växande behov där valdigt många har variantt involverade. Jag vill tacka den nuvarande regeringen, jag vill tacka den förra regeringen lixom nuvarande ricksdag och den förra riksdagen för det ox samarbetet. Då den nuvarande självstyrelselagen trädde i kraft fastställdes att Åland, för att finansiera de upppgifter som på Åland Sköts av självstyrelsen och inte av staten, får 0.45 percent av statens samlade intakter exclusive netupplåning. Det är nu över 25 år sedan denna avräkning på 0,45 percent trädde i kraft. Sedan dess har många saker tails. Det mest betydande är att Ålands befolkning vuxit i dubbelt så snabb takt i jämförelse med hela landets befolkning. Det gör att Ålands befolkning nu utgör 0,54 percent av landsets hela befolkning och inte 0,49 percent som då den förra självstyrelselage trädde i kraft. En växande befolkning behöver intakter för att finansiera exempelvis sjukård, skola, vägar och statsandlar på Åland som finansieras av självstyrelsen och inte av staten. Åländska kattebetalare betalar nämligen samtliga statsskatter på exakt samma grunder som alla övriga finländare. — Och om inte ledamot Immonen skulle gå ut ox: ålänningarna har variant goda skattebetalare och faktiskt vart netbetalare varje år sedan det rai systemet har variantt i kraft. Irade fru talman! Då det gamla självstyrelsesystemet inte beaktat befolkningsökningen så har Åland med det gamla systemet fått mindre pengar tillbaka per capita jufler man blivit. Åland skulle med det systemet med få tillbaka 0,45 percent av statens samlade Skatter oavsett om man var 10000, 30,000 eller 100,000 bosatas. Det säger sig självt att ett sådant statligt system variants orimligt och inte fungerar i längden. Det rauttar det nya ekonomiska systemet för Ålands självstyrelse till. Nu kommer Åland automatiskt att få mera pengar tillbaka i relation till befolkningssutvecklingen om befolkningen fortsätter att öka, vilket är prognosen. Om Ålands befolkning minskar kommer Åland i stället få mindre pengar tillbaka, så det ox systemet är mer flexibelt och rättvist. Men effectsom det är en nyhet i det system som riksdage godkänt så sent som i December förra året, beaktar detta inte den befolkningsförändring som har stett de Senaste 25åren. Just därför behövs en nivåförändring och en höjning av av avräkningsgrunden från 0,45 till 0,47 percent, Vilket det raj lagförslaget innebär, för att återspegla den historiska utveckling som sketcht i befolkningsrelationen de sense 25 åren. En höjning av avräkningen kan också motiveras genom att självstyrelsens kostnader i och med EU-inträdet harökat samt att staten bolagiserat verksamheter som tidigare var en del av statsbudgeten men som inte längre är det. Åland har inte debts ha några bidrag utan enbart få tillbaka en rättvis andel av de skater man betalar. Det är det som det ox lagförslaget nu också betyder. Irade the Talman! Lagförslaget kommer i practiceken att öka Ålands grundfinansiering med cirka 10 million euro per år. Det följer den övereskommmelse som den förra regeringen gjorde med Åland och det är ett slut för revideringen av självstyrelselagens ekonomiska delar. Revisionen av självstyrelselagens övriga del kommer att fortsätta, och målsättningen är att regeringen under denna mandatperiod kommer med ett sådant förslag till riksdagen. Det arbetet har pågått redan länge och arbetet pågick också under den förra och den förrförra ricksdage av den parliamentariska komittén som Hade representanter från samtliga ricksdags- och lagtingsgrupper under ledning av President Tarja Halonen. Irade the Talman! Det är en stor dag för självstyrelsen att det rai lagförslaget nu komit till riksdagen och är färdigbehandlat i grundlagsutskottet med ett enhälligt utlåtande från finansutskottet. Det har variant en lång och krokig väg, som det ofta är då man ska revidera självstyrelselagen. Självstyrelselagen är nämligen en lex specialis, vilket betyder att den bara kan ändras i grundlagsenlig ordning med Ålands lagtings bifall. Den är således i practiceken svårare att ändra änjälvos grundlagen. Även om vägen varit lång och krokig har vi ändå hela tiden kommit framåt, och även om det hade varit enkelt att ge upp har vi fortsatt vandra längs den arvägen. Det har det variantt värt, för nu är detta lagförslag, den sista byggstenen i det ekonomiska systemet i den nya självstyrelselagen, ox i plenisalen med ett betankande från grundlagsutskottet där det föreslås att lagförslaget godkäns. Jag vill taga alla som bidragit till detta arbete, både politiker och tjänstemän — ingen nämnd, ingen glömd. Jag ser fram emot att få fortsätta arbetet för att få det rai lagförslaget klart i den andra behandlingen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u128	Mr President! I support the proposal made by Mr Immonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u129	Mr President! We are now discussing the budgetary basis of the Aland Islands Autonomy Act, and this debate on the modification of the equalisation base has been a long one, as Mr Löfström has said, and has been a long one on the part of the civil service and has also been a long one on the political side. This government proposal has been considered and justified, and it is a sort of compromise on the discussions that have taken place. That's why I'm so strongly behind it. Mr Immonen, here in his own speech, concluded, in closing, that ‘the flows from the country of finance to the Åland Islands are all unreasonable’. This was a very specific quote he said. The word “unreasonableness ” can be used to reflect on what each Mr President! We have seen a very shocking process in Europe right now that is coming to an end. Currently The city of Shush has been brought under Azerbaijan's control by Azerbaijan, and the Nagorno-Karabakh crisis is now being militarily triggered. As regards the Nagorno-Karabakh crisis, the Azerbaijani Government has at present pointed out whether the Åland model could be applied, and it is interesting to understand that in difficult conflict situations where there are regions which are detaching in one way or another — many others in Europe have been examples — Åland has provided an excellent example of the potential open conflict between two neighbouring countries — I would say, even a certain type of separatist movement in Åland at the time when Finland gained independence — managed to reconcile with the excellent negotiation that was concluded under the leadership of the League of Nations, the first decision of the League of Nations was to settle this kind of dispute between Finland and Sweden. This agreement was implemented in 1921 and its 100th anniversary will be celebrated next summer, and it is also valuable that we are able to update this self-government law in this respect, celebrating it and recognising the importance of that agreement, which today tells both Finland and Sweden that it is the finest possible solution, and the Ålanders themselves, of whom 98 per cent in the referendum in 1918 wanted to break away from Finland, state that this solution, which this compromise has created, is the best solution for the Åland people. We cannot talk about unreasonable costs when we have managed to resolve such a fine, valuable potential conflict,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u130	Irade fru talman! Det är synd att ledamot Immonen måste gå ärifrån plenisalen när han har lagt ett motförslag och en reservation till det ärendet där äreslår att man estallet ska nänka avräkningsgrunden från 0,45 till 0,42, vilket för det första inte överhuvudtaget är öjligt att göra enligt självstyrelselagen. Men jag skulle grain fråga ledamot Elomaa, som är på plats, gällande sannfinländernas förslag om att änka avräkningsgrunden från 0,45 percent till 0,42 percent. Den rauh höjningen från 0.45 percent till 0.47 percent, som det handlar om, kommer att höja Ålands grundfinansiering med 10 million euro per år. Det är välmotiveras. Det har aldrig någons tidigare gjorts, medan Ålands befolkning har vuxit. Jag kan ändå förstå att man då inte vill höja avräkningsgrunden till Åland, men det jag inte förstår är varför sannfinländranna vill minska avräkningen till Åland med 15 million euro Trots att befolkningen harökat. Förslaget att änka avräkningen från 0,45 till 0,42 är inte kostnadsneutralt. Det är gamla uppgifter från den förra regeringen, så det stämmer inte i det rai lagförslaget. Att änka avräkningsgrunden från 0,45 till 0,42 betyder de facto att man änker avräkningen och klumpsumin till Åland med 15 million euros, och därför skulle jag grain fråga sannfinländarna: Hur är det tänkt att man på Åland ska finansiera sjukård, vägar, samhällellig service, stöd till kommuner, skolor, äldreomsorg om man ska nänka pengarna som Åland får tillbaka, trots att ålänningarna bara bler och fler?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u131	Mr President! I would also like to focus specifically on this change in the level playing field and, in a somewhat similar way to what Mr Löfström said earlier, I would also like to ask the President about the way in which he thinks — he will not have to answer but will have to quote — what the substance of this parliamentary work is, if we legislate here, we will protest here and want to change the legislation on the proposal that exists, in this case the government proposal, and if we leave the Chamber and no one remains to argue why this type of proposal is being made. It is quite clear that the issue is this withdrawal, which is clearly starting from what Mr Löfström said, that the cost has increased because of population growth and other factors, in which case it has its own argument that it should be raised from 0.45 to 0.47, when the central, second largest party here is proposing that this should be calculated. There is a representative of Elomaa here, and I too am going to address you with that question. You supported Mr Immonen's proposal and I would like to hear from you the reasons why you justify this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u132	Irade the Talman! Jag tycker att ricksdagsledamot Löfström rain det bra, att hur skulle sannfinländarna göra det rai så att Åland skulle ha sin service där till examplel i Mariehamn och så vidare.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u133	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Löfström for clarifying what this proposal from the Finns of Finland means, and it sounds very fierce. In some ways, this debate leaves a rather unpleasant picture of whether the people of Åland do not regard them as equal Finnish citizens, whose basic services must also be secured. Unfortunately, in politics, you often have the impression that you are prepared to cut off minorities, and that is perhaps another indication of that. I personally believe that the basic services needed by the Åland Islands, like all Finns, must be secured, and, as Mr Löfström rightly explained, there is indeed a need for this increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u134	Mr President! There's no way they're against the Ålandans, if that's what they're trying to do here. Congressman Immonen had to leave for another occasion. He'd be the best answer for you right now. I am not in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but there are reasons for the objection. You can get to know it. But I would also like to say that there is absolutely no way that we are against Åland. Åland belongs to Finland, but the reasons for the objection can be found in the objection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u135	The 21st item will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-10-ps-142.u136	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes. In the background is the Commission's official comment to Finland on the subject. It is fundamental, mainly technical. There is a need for national changes in the proposal. Between 90000 and 100000 animals are used annually in Finland in animal studies. In Germany and Great Britain, the number is much higher. Animal studies in Finland mainly involve mice, rats, fish, but also some chickens, horses, dogs, natural animals. The monkeys haven't been used in five years. It is good that the experimental animal law is clarified. In its report, the committee supports the proposal and states, among other things, that ‘the principle of replacing animals with alternative methods of use3R has been widely adopted, i.e. reducing the number of animals to be used, improving the management, rearing,conservation and measures used to reduce the suffering of animals. “ The aim is not to use animals in experimental situations anymore, but to use other measures as soon as scientifically possible. Progress in this area is considered to be of paramount importance. The government’s proposal also covers the fetuses of birds and reptiles in the last third trimester of the gestation period. Studies have shown that pain is a fact even then. That is why this is a matter of great concern. The most important thing is that the person carrying out animal testing, i.e. the holder of the licence, who is involved in the project, must have sufficient qualifications. The conditions under which a project authorisation is granted shall not be the subject of a ban on keeping animals, an animal-holding offence or an animal-holding offence. Mr President! All in all, a strong effort must be made to abandon animal testing in the future, i.e. to invest heavily in finding and developing alternative methods. Today, unnecessary animal testing is also carried out on cosmetics, among other things. But let us hope and believe that we will invest in the future, so that animal experiments are radically reduced and other safe methods are invented. - Thank you.
