ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u1	The third issue in the order of business is the Prime Minister's announcement of Finland's preparedness for the possible spread of the corona virus. After the speech by Prime Minister Sanna Marin, 10 minutes, and the speech by Minister of Finance Katri Kulmun, 5 minutes, I will give each group the opportunity to make a two-minute reply. Then we move on to the one-minute response to the debate, and I will give you the answers in the order I have considered. Responses will be reserved for the plenary session by V-button. An hour and a half is set aside for the proceedings.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The outbreak of respiratory infection caused by the new corona virus in China at the beginning of the year has spread rapidly to several countries. More than 80,000 cases of viral infections and fewer than 3,000 deaths have been reported worldwide. Most of the infections have been detected in the province of Hubei, China, where a new strain of the virus was first detected. In Finland, epidemics have been carefully and systematically prepared, and our legislation is up to date. Legislation will also be assessed on the basis of new situations. According to current data, the majority of those who have contracted the virus have had mild symptoms and have recovered well from home care. In some people, however, infection can lead to a more serious form of disease, such as pneumonia. The most serious symptoms at risk are the elderly and those with underlying diseases. They need intensive care more often than others when they become infected with the virus. Children have had a very mild disease. In adolescents and middle-aged people, serious forms of disease have been rare. Some 480 cases of disease have been reported in Europe so far, most of them in Italy. The four provinces of Italy have so far been defined as an epidemic region. There have been two confirmed cases in Finland. Finland is well prepared for the situation. In recent days, infections from Italy have been detected in several EU countries and it is likely that the disease will continue to spread both in Italy and elsewhere in Europe. Although the number of cases reported in China is declining, the number of cases has increased particularly in South Korea and Iran. Mr President! It is natural that public concerns about the virus epidemic will increase as the disease is geographically closer. The World Health Organisation has estimated that the corona virus spreads easily from one country to another, and Finland is therefore also prepared for the widespread spread of the disease in various administrative sectors. According to information received by the Government, there will also be cases of coronavirus in Finland. At the moment, it is still difficult to assess the extent to which the disease will occur, but we are prepared for very different situations. Mr President! This is not the first time a new infectious disease has occurred in a country and it also spreads to Finland. Fortunately, this is not the first time we have prepared for epidemics and pandemics either. Finland is a country in which health care functions well and the skills of public authorities are first-class.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u5	Thank you. — Then, contrary to what I have just announced, first two minutes for the Minister of Finance, Mr Kulmun, followed by Mr Pekonen, Minister of Social Affairs and Health, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u6	Mr President! The economic effects of the Corona virus are very uncertain. We are currently dealing with a phenomenon that has increased the negative risks associated with economic development. This is why the greatest impact has so far been seen on financial markets, which respond more quickly to changes in risks than the real economy. If the spread of the virus is rapidly restricted, the impact of the Finnish economy will mainly affect industry and the availability of its components and tourism. In this way, the impact on public finances would also be small. Adequate funding for the management of the situation can be secured through normal channels from ministries and agencies. In the current year, EUR 8.9 million will be available for unforeseen expenditure, for example for situations like this, which are not specifically committed in the budget. If the virus were to spread more widely, the effects would be passed on to the entire national economy. In this case, the reaction of the State should also be stronger. The State has the possibility to use the amending budget procedure. The question should then be to cover the immediate costs of crisis management. However, we are not yet in a situation like this, and it is necessary to monitor the situation and its development very closely. The Ministry of Finance continuously cooperates closely with the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority to monitor the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u7	Mr President! The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will lead, supervise and coordinate the preparation of social and health care for various disturbances and emergency conditions. Preparing for various exceptional situations is therefore central to the ministry's work. We are prepared for different scenarios in case of a new corona virus. We are also prepared for rapid changes in situations. At the moment, there is no epidemic in Finland, although we have some confirmed cases of infection. The risk of infection in Finland is low. Finland is actively monitoring the situation and we will be able to increase our readiness quickly if the situation so requires. We are also monitoring the situation in the government globally, together with the various authorities, and we are quickly informed of the changes that are taking place. At present, preparedness is central to the prevention and restriction of the epidemic at national and international level. In practice, this means that we will review and complete the operational and communication plans for managing the situation, complement the material stocks at regional and national level, and initiate the maintenance and management of the situation picture. As the situation expands into an epidemic, we will focus on managing the epidemic and treating patients, but I would remind you that there is currently no epidemic in Finland. In addition to monitoring the situation closely and cooperating with the various authorities at home, we continue to work together internationally to prevent the spread of all communicable diseases. Finland is prepared for a possible epidemic. When we talk about material preparation, we refer primarily to protective devices for the use of professionals in their work, such as masks, masks, masks and so on. These are currently well in the regions as well as in the reserve. This means that protective equipment is available throughout the country in different health care units, but can also be transferred to areas where there are more cases of disease than other areas if necessary. Our level of preparedness is also good when compared internationally. In addition, in Finland there are protective devices that have been stored in emergency storage and tested by VTT in February 2020 that are obsolete in terms of labelling. These may, if necessary, continue to be introduced if the situation so requires. Finland’s preparedness has proved to be good for Europeans. President! I would also like to say that we also have good preparations for medicines, and there are antibiotics in the statutory reserves of obligations for medicinal products that can be used for the treatment of possible sequelae.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u8	Thank you. — Then we move on to the debate, but in a way that first the names announced on behalf of the groups, two minutes. Then those who wish to make a reply can make the floor by getting up and pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u9	Mr President! The Socialist Group in Parliament would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Government for the announcement of preparations for the corona virus epidemic. There is not yet an epidemic in our country, that is, a mass infection, although just yesterday the first Finnish patient has been reported to be ill. First of all, the most important thing is the preparation of our health system and its ability to function. We have solid experience in the treatment of infectious diseases of general concern. I am referring, for example, to swine flu in 2009. The ability to take samples and the ability to treat patients requiring hospitalisation are key. As the number of patients with illness increases, the treatment of non-urgent patients in hospitals may be restricted. As political decision-makers, we are responsible for ensuring that our legislation is in place and that the authorities have sufficient resources and that the activities of the various administrative sectors are coordinated and efficient. Our infectious disease law is excellent. It has a clear system of responsibility. I would like to highlight in particular the regional responsibility of hospital districts and the central role of infectious doctors. The law contains extensive powers to isolate patients and obtain official assistance, including the police, the Defence Forces and the Border Guard. In extreme circumstances, the Emergency Act also covers the procedures required by an epidemic that seriously endangers our society. I don't think we're going to have to use it myself, but this is good to know. The capacity of public health care, and in particular its staff, is now key. It has always been and is currently the top priority of the SDP. It has often been seen that, in the event of serious situations, this is understood and remembered, but good preparation means that this is always taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u10	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the President for agreeing to the request made by the Finns on the transfer of this debate to Question Time so that the people can receive timely information about the corona virus. Concrete measures are needed to prepare for coronavirus infection. The notification by the Marin government of the coronavirus has only started today, although the virus has been present in Finland since January. This is a serious viral infection, the extent of which we are not yet able to assess. In January, I asked the Minister a written question about preparing for the corona virus, but the answer was vague. As a nurse, I wondered if the government had no idea of the seriousness of the situation. It is good that we now receive the Prime Minister's announcement. We need handholds, respiratory shields, insulation facilities, protective clothing, oxygen equipment, medicines, and breathing machines. The resources of nursing workers must be secure. In order not to spread the corona virus, a clear plan and guidance is needed. Citizens need to know what to do if they suspect they have been exposed to the virus or have been infected. It is particularly important to minimise situations in which people who are sick are infecting others. How do you work in schools, day-care centres, garrisons and workplaces? Can distance work or distance learning be increased as to what other measures are needed? What about care units such as the care of the elderly, the disabled and the long-term ill, what is the policy for the elderly? The cleaning and disinfection of public spaces and means of transport must be invested in. How to deal with borders, airports and ports where people may have been exposed to or carried the virus? What national instructions are given for travel to prevent the disease from spreading? Companies have already imposed a travel ban on their employees in January. However, if the corona virus spreads, ensuring security of supply will play a key role. What steps will the government take to ensure the availability of food and other essential commodities? Mr Pekonen, at the briefing you said that you were prepared for this opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u11	Mr President! There are a lot of questions about the spread of the Korona virus that do not yet have answers. What we don't know raises uncertainty. The best way to respond to concern is with information. Many citizens wonder how the authorities are prepared for the epidemic. Finland’s capacity to treat those infected with corona virus is well known. Our healthcare system is one of the best in the world, and health professionals are doing a good job. However, information on practical measures for preparedness has so far been limited. Many people wonder how health care and other important basic services are secured. For example, how to ensure the care and protection of older citizens against infections? Mr President! People need information on how to prepare for a possible epidemic on their own. Many citizens want more information and operating instructions in their daily lives. Up-to-date and reliable information and open discussion are the best remedy to reduce anxiety and increase the sense of safety. It is therefore important that the government now responds to the concern by reporting on preparedness and ensuring adequate access to information. Mr President! Finns want the decision-makers to work together. They expect us to be able to put political differences aside and work together across party boundaries at such a time. We must now focus on ensuring that homes, workplaces, schools and day-care centres have sufficient knowledge and means to prepare for an epidemic. Preparing and strengthening the sense of security is a common goal for all of us. The Coalition Party trusts experts and researched information. The coalition supports the government in every way in the fight against the corona virus and in the preparedness for the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u12	Mr President! Can our family travel to Northern Italy in a couple of weeks for a vacation? Can an asymptomatic person infect others? What do you think the odds are that I'm gonna get a corona here in Oulu? I work for a company that has a lot of exports to China. I wonder what the interest rate means for our company. I guess this is the kind of question that moves in the minds of Finns. This is natural because we do not know everything about corona yet and there is still no vaccine or precision medicine for it. The new virus and disease are always more of a concern than the already known ones. Fear and uncertainty are human feelings for a new and strange attitude. The best remedy against them is open and factual communication. In order to dispel fear and uncertainty, it is important that the government and Prime Minister have today announced Finland's preparedness for the corona virus. The central parliamentary group trusts in the preparedness and operational capacity of the authorities in all administrative sectors and levels. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which I represent, also heard experts at its meeting today. We made sure that the health authorities were well prepared for the situation and that the policies were clear in the case of suspicion of infection. Alongside preparedness, it is essential that citizens have up-to-date and correct information about the situation. Open and knowledgeable communication increases people’s confidence in the authorities. It is up to decision-makers to strengthen confidence that things are under control and that people’s everyday lives are going well. Threats should not be exaggerated, but eyes should not be closed either. Mr President! The effects of the Corona virus are wider than those of public health alone. The effects on world trade have already been great. Korona can also have bigger impacts than anticipated on Finnish companies and our economy. Lapland’s tourism is already known to have suffered from the effects of the corona. And finally, I would like to summarise: in Finland, the risk of developing a corona disease is very low. We all have a higher risk of seasonal flu. Let's make sure we wash.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u13	Mr President! The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance congratulates the Government on its good preparedness. Currently, around 5% of infections have been detected outside mainland China and, according to the World Health Organization, the virus has become an international health threat. A total of two cases of coronavirus have been detected in Finland, and there are a few other doubts under investigation. The Finnish health authorities have excellent capacity to deal with new emerging corona cases, and the possibility of a wider epidemic has been well prepared. It should also be remembered that more than 80% of cases are mild. The mortality rate for the disease is only about 2% in the light of current statistics. Mr President! In a world where people are constantly travelling from one place to another, communicable diseases have the potential to spread without properly coordinated measures. The importance of international cooperation is now particularly important. We must remember that the international health threat such as the corona virus is the worst hit by the most vulnerable people worldwide. It should be borne in mind that the capacity of developing countries to prepare is limited and it is therefore particularly important to provide support to those in need. International cooperation and development funding are therefore essential tools for preventing and preventing the spread of diseases. Mr President! The Green Parliamentary Group has strong confidence in the Finnish health system and international coordination to manage the disease. In order to overcome epidemics, the best means are to have confidence in the information studied and to follow and follow the instructions of the competent authorities. Spreading hysteria serves no one's interests. As a doctor and a congressman, I hope that everyone in this Chamber will contribute to ensuring that unnecessary fear does not spread among Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u14	Mr President! It is often said in a negative way that politicians wash their hands of various things. [Laughter] In addition to effective prevention and treatment, we should also discuss in the future how we can influence the prevention of new epidemics or pandemics. The problems of the world are never confined to the borders of the countries. In a global world, people, animals and food move fast. Infection from the other side of the earth may be with us within 24 hours. The greatest risk for new types of viral infections is where hygiene levels are low, infection pressure is high and health care is undeveloped. There is also no understanding of the common pathogens of animals and humans. We are also at risk of a silent pandemic: antibiotics-resistant bacteria that have resistance to almost all antimicrobials and increased disease response. This is particularly affected by the excessive use of polyartificial antibiotics in developing countries and the excessive use of intensive agricultural antibiotics in animals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u15	Mr President, värderade talman! Först vill jag tacka statsministern för den upplysning som riksdage har fått i det ärendet. Det är viktigt att vi för en saklig och fact basserad communication om coronaviruses. I en sådan ox situation ska man undvika överdriven dramatik. Myndigheternas ansvar är att ge öppen och relevant information om hur läget utvecklar sig. Det ska ske på klarspråk och det är viktigt att finländarna får denna information på både finska, svenska och engelska. Det rör sig inte om en pandemic i det bull skdet trots karantaner och isoleringar på oliika håll. Risk finns att läget förväras, och det ska vi ha beredskap för. Samtidigt vet vi att följdsjukdomarna och dödligheten till följd av coronavirus de facto mera påminner om en vanlig säsongfluse.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u16	Mr President! The Korona virus has gained a lot of space in both international and Finnish media, and it is therefore understandable that citizens are experiencing confusion, while at the same time experts reassure and remind, for example, that there is currently much more seasonal influenza in Finland and its serious health consequences. And by the way, there's a vaccine for influenza that's still worth taking. Over-reaction and an atmosphere of fear create viral problems, both in mental health and in the economy. That is why it is good that proper information is shared both in the media and in schools, for example. Ministers and experts have been criticised for providing manual washing instructions, but I continue to encourage them, because there is still much to learn. Research evidence of the preventive effect of hand washing on infectious diseases, e.g. in day care centres, is clear. Similarly, I hope for expert advice on the use and distribution of handicrafts, for example, in dining rooms where soap washing of hands is not possible. At the same time, one might remind you that greetings other than handshakes can be polite and considerate of neighbor’s health. It is important that the government prepares for wider and more serious health and economic scenarios of the corona virus. If there were to be a major epidemic in Finland, it would tie up a large amount of healthcare capacity and further threaten the employment and economic objectives previously set. And, for example, a greater collapse than anticipated in China’s economic growth would accelerate the decline of the economic base in Finland as well. The Christian Democrats' Parliamentary Group acknowledges to the government, and in particular to our competent health authorities, that the suspicions and incidents of coronavirus have been handled well,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u17	Mr President! I would like to thank the government for its open policy. I trust the authorities and the medical staff in this matter. We do well to follow the instructions of the authorities and the health workers. There is no point in listening to politicians — let us listen to those who understand it best. One thing we can be concerned about, however, is that the world economy, which also affects our economy, can go down. To sum up, long international subcontracting chains have become uncertain. The Korona virus has highlighted how vulnerable these chains and the global economy are. In Germany, a million cars have already failed because of the corona virus. But it's just a foretaste. Many other forces are driving the world away from a time when it has been sensible for cheap labour countries like China to have parts and products sold here. I therefore believe that the government will have to take the corona virus into account in its additional budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u18	I will give one minute's reply to those who have spoken on behalf of their groups just now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u19	As the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Vehviläinen, said this morning, we received excellent information from the management of both the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the THL. Let us say, on the other hand, that it was reassuring, for example in the area of preparedness, on the other hand, we know that, for example, the ECDC, which is the EU's common agency for communicable diseases, which operates in Stockholm, is able to report on this situation almost online at the moment, as the saying goes. In Europe, the number of these new infections is increasing, although the number of new infections in China relative to the situation one month ago is somewhat diminishing. So it is very important that at this very moment, here and now, we look at this situation in Finland as a whole, and for the second time I say that I am very pleased that the government has made this announcement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u20	Mr President! I, too, thank you for the good debate that has taken place here. We Finns quite agree that we need to talk about things honestly, fairly and in a timely manner. Now this debate is very good and we trust the Finnish authorities in this respect. The public will ask questions about the vaccine and how we in Finland might start developing vaccination for this particular coronavirus, for example. How would you answer this? Experts said that it was a rather long process to get new vaccines on the market, let alone medicines. How does this affect the future, so that next time we will be more and even better prepared? It is very important that the government informs and that all the people there at the TV screen also receive information so that panic does not arise. That would be the worst of all. Among other things, the fact that if a person is frightened, he will seek treatment even if he does not actually have the virus. So people shouldn't be intimidated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u21	Mr President! The best way to increase safety is to ensure that up-to-date information reaches everyone. It is important to keep all citizens aware and to tell them how the government is preparing for the corona virus and how every person can prepare for it. So I ask the government: How do you intend to ensure that correct and reliable information finds every Finn? Information on the Internet alone does not reach everyone. How do you make sure that information passes, for example, to older people who may not be with intelligent devices? How do we ensure that each family knows whether a child can be taken to day care and that every workplace has proper instructions on how to prepare for an epidemic?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u22	Mr President! In fact, I would like to say the same thing as Mr Schoolman here. We tend to put a lot of information on the Internet — THL and STM and all the other organisations — but because of the concern about how we get information in the same way, equally for others as well as for those who use electronic and digital gadgets, perhaps I hope that the government will be able to promote it. That would be very good. The second point I would like to make here is: I think it is very important that the government has set up a intersectoral coordination working group on various administrative areas, because there is sometimes a risk that we go to sector-specific work and that we do not understand and know what is being done in another ministry. I think that is particularly important. Especially if this turns out to be an epidemic from now on, do more than do less interministerial cooperation here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u23	You can find instructions on the website of your health centre and hospital district, and they can also be found in the emergency number 116117, which operates nationally. There you can get a nurse’s symptom assessment and further instructions for all symptoms. The washing of hands is the most effective way to avoid all pathogens, and as a flu symptom, you should stay home and recover. As Mr Räsänen mentioned, it is good to remember that hundreds of people die of seasonal flu in Finland every year. So it is good to have an attitude toward the Korona virus in relation to it. There is still time to receive the vaccine for seasonal influenza because the A-flu season is only just beginning in Finland. By the beginning of February, some one million Finns had taken the vaccine as recommended.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u24	Mr President! Here in Finland, we have an excellent ability to fight infection because of our organisation, high hygiene and high quality health care. We have an excellent opportunity to act through good medical personnel on possible infections, but also to prevent this corona virus epidemic from happening in Finland. However, in the fight against the Korona virus, as many have stressed, important measures are the same as in all other epidemics: wash your hands carefully, do not touch your face. These may sound a little childish, but they are the most effective. And the important thing is, if you get sick, you don't go to work, you don't go to school, you stay home. That is why it is important that we ensure that safety nets are maintained, that when people get sick, during sick times, people's livelihoods are secured, so that no one has to go to work sick because of their livelihoods.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u25	Mr President, värderade talman! I morse fick social- och älsovårdsutskottet en utförlig information om beredskapen som Finland har för den raus coronavirus episodemin. Många saker kom fram där, bland you give att det finns risk för att säsongflusen och den rojliga coronaepidemi kommer samtidigt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u26	Mr President! A number of Finns have been quarantined in Tenerife, and it is possible that similar quarantine situations will now be seen more and more abroad during the spring. In a quarantine situation which may be imposed by a Finnish authority, Kela may receive compensation for loss of earnings, but this does not apply to foreign authorities under current legislation. I would like to ask: is there now a need to update the legislation on possible compensation for quarantine imposed by another state authority, and has there been a debate at EU level on common rules for the imposition of such quarantines?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u27	Mr President! The only thing I've been left completely open with this corona virus is the way the whole virus is transmitted. I have tried to ask people about it, and no one has really been able to give a proper answer. Sometimes it is given such an answer that it only becomes contagious when the disease has broken out, and sometimes it is given that it may be contagious, even though it has not broken out. I think we should be a little clear on this. Then it would be much easier for people to prepare for when they are infecting one another.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u28	Mr President! The Finnish healthcare sector, schools and day care centres are well prepared for the situation. That is, of course, the most important thing for us. But as we know, our economy is also very vulnerable. Most companies, industries are dependent at least on Chinese components. In this situation, I think it would be a good idea to reflect at EU level — because this is not the first time that the virus epidemic is starting from China — on whether the economic supply chains could be moved back, returned to the EU level. I also read that a small Finnish company had done this kind of rapid test to test passengers at airports and thus prevent the spread of the virus or the travel of a infected virus carrier to another country. I also think that this should be looked into and taken the initiative in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u29	Mr President! Korona currently raises a great deal of concerns and questions around the world. This morning, at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we heard experts on the issue of corona and preparedness. On the basis of this, it can be said that Finland has been well prepared on the basis of the information available and has been prepared extensively and carefully for the prevention of the spread of the disease and for treatment on the one hand. Apart from the fact that these preparedness measures are being taken by public actors, what is needed is first and foremost information for people. Can I take the kids to day care? Do I dare fly? If I am a family nurse and my aged mate falls ill, can I get help home? The shadow of the Korona falls here at the same time as the flu peak and under the nurse's strike threat. How can we survive spring? I would like a supplementary question to be published to the Finnish public—the reply list to which questions to be answered. Even though today we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u30	Mr President! It is right to avoid both panic and panic. However, preparedness and panic are two different things. When you're prepared, you don't have to panic. None of us yet knows what will happen with the corona virus, but epidemics, pandemics and other local and global plagues will certainly continue to happen. This will be ensured by population growth, mobility and open borders. We rely on the government's announcement that the level of preparedness of the authorities is sufficient. The level of preparedness of citizens may not be as good. Perhaps this would be a good opportunity to remind ordinary people of the importance of home resources. If a citizen always has food in his closet for a week and other supplies, he does not need to rush to Alepa’s canteen shelf if or when the substance hits the fan. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u31	Then, Mr Berg, before the Prime Minister responds.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u32	Mr President! It is very important now that we do not really stir up panic at this point. However, it is also very important that we are prepared for a possible increase in the number of cases of infection in Finland. As Prime Minister Marin and Minister Pekonen pointed out in their own speeches, Finland is well prepared and the level of preparedness is indeed good in international comparisons. What is most important now is that hand hygiene is taken care of, as has been pointed out in many speeches here, and that we also see to it that, if these symptoms occur, treatment is sought at that stage. Another important point is that we are prepared to ensure that our health care staff can be protected if the epidemic lands in Finland. This has also been provided for, which is what the ministers have said very well. On the third point, I would like to make one more point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u33	Then the Prime Minister, three minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u34	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and the parliamentary groups for a proper and good debate in this Chamber. It is good that this situation is being discussed together and that it is now possible for the public, through television and the media, to have this picture of the situation for themselves and to listen to these speeches which have been well used in this Chamber. I am still trying to dispel the potential concerns of the citizens and to clarify with such a wire model what this situation could possibly mean for Finland. In this central epidemic region of China, there are indeed about one in a thousand people who have fallen ill, i.e. 0.1% of the population have contracted coronavirus, and about 80% of these people have a very mild disease, which means that the symptoms are mild and can be treated at home. If the situation in Finland were similar, there would be some thousands of cases of coronavirus disease, i.e. no large number of people with seasonal influenza disease. The probability that there will also be one of the most serious situations here is low, and health care in Finland, our authorities and our health care staff are really expert, professional, so there is a very high probability that there will be no serious situation here. But in case the spread of the disease is wider than what we now have, what we have, I would like to say that the government is prepared for this too. We are also prepared for a situation where there would be more cases of illness, that prevalence would be wider. We are prepared to ensure that, even in such a situation, our society works well, works properly, and, for example, it is the health care staff who will be in the first place in contact with people who have fallen ill that are well protected. Further information and information can certainly also be provided by Minister Pekonen and Minister Kiuru. I would like to thank Parliament once again for a proper, moderate debate, and it is good that we are here together for the whole of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u35	Secretary Bakonen, two minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u36	Mr President! First of all, I would like to answer Mr Juvonen's question when you asked what I meant by saying at the press conference that a large proportion of Finns are getting sick. I meant that our level of preparedness is based on a national contingency plan and the contingency plan is based on the assumption that the epidemic would last eight weeks and that 35% of Finns could be infected, but experience However, this scenario is currently not supported by the PRC. I think it is good that we are prepared in Finland. You also asked about the vaccines. The development of vaccination will take about 12 to 18 months, as you yourself said. Vaccines are already being developed and we have discussed Finland's involvement in the development of vaccines within the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, but we alone do not have such resources. Representative Rehn-Kive will respond to the influenza vaccine against seasonal influenza that it is certainly worthwhile to take the vaccine because the season of infection is long and only now is beginning. That is why it is extremely important that we protect ourselves against this seasonal flu, because other viruses are still in circulation. I say to Mrs Räsänen that we are currently working with Kela to find out how this infectious disease allowance applies to cases where a person is isolated abroad, and we also assess the need for changes in the legislation that may arise here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u37	Thank you. — Minister Kiuru, 2 minutes from the location.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u38	Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to participate in the debate as well. First of all, it is good to say at the outset that two new coronaviruses have been detected in Finland so far in the laboratory. One of these cases was located in that area of the Lapland Central Hospital. This Chinese tourist was treated quickly, in due time. His contact surface, i.e. in practice the persons who may have been exposed to the coronavirus while he was in Lapland, was contacted, and the result was that this person has already returned to his country of origin and was spared infection by placing quarantines on these persons who were at the heart of the disease, and they have survived from that area so that there has been no infection. That, in my opinion, shows that the social and health care system is working. We have been able to prepare for this, as Mr Pekonen has already said, but at the same time it is good to say that these treatment chains have also worked and, as a result, we have been able to carry out what is promised in society to protect each other. Another case was discovered last night. In fact, one of the infected Finnish patients who has been at risk of infection in Milan had sought treatment in the HUS region. So these individuals were quickly identified and received treatment, and thus their exposure circle, or close contact circle, has also been investigated, and these two people in close contact are also in the home quarantine. In this respect, they are:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u39	Mr President! I can also thank both the Government and the parliamentary groups for this debate as far as the Coalition Party is concerned. That is our common concern, and it is important that there is a common understanding of this in this Chamber. Thank you also to the Finnish authorities, who have received information for the whole Parliament today. It does provide assurance that there are professional authorities in Finland. We are well prepared for these things, and in that sense this can certainly be drawn together so that people can be calm. Preparedness is good, information is taken care of, and if anything happens, people are kept informed. This is important for the future, however, when people are very closely following the development of this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u40	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I thank you very much for the opportunity to take this opportunity, as I saw from the presentation of the Finns of Finland when this came. I would hope that, in future, the Minister of Responsibility will be appointed at an early stage. It's important, it's responsible management. It would be of great interest to know that if this situation gets worse, whether there is any thought about opportunities for teleworking at work, perhaps at a distance school. Proper and correct information is very important, and as a human being in the pharmaceutical sector it is therefore of interest to see whether medicines have already begun to be planned in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u41	Mr. Speaker! I believe and trust that Finland will know and know how to act in such a situation, and it is important that it continues openly, calmly and effectively. This is not the first epidemic of this kind in the world, and certainly not the last. We live in a world where the chances of these spreading are so much faster than before in history. It would therefore be extremely important to learn from this too in order to strengthen international cooperation, because at the moment we are in a situation where this multilateral cooperation is in poor oxygen, and yet such cases show how necessary it is to be able to operate effectively under the same rules of play and transparency throughout the world. That's not enough. The EU needs the World Health Organisation and the UN system, and Finland is such a country with the other Nordic countries,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u42	Mr President! First of all, it must be said that the representative of Peruvian Finns, Mr Juvonen, took the floor at the outset in order to mark that this debate was made by the people of Peru. It got me stomach ache.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u45	Mr President! As we have now heard, Finland has sufficient resources and equipment to meet this challenge. We do not need breathing masks or other robust equipment. They are needed by health care personnel who work with infected persons. Instead, we need hand-washing, sleeves to cough and swallow, and trust in one of the strongest health care systems in the world. It is up to the authorities to ensure an up-to-date and correct flow of information on the surveillance of the virus, and it is up to us to support them in doing so. Children can still travel their school trips in the mornings without worrying about the virus and going through their school days safely. They won't be afraid if we don't scare them, and there's no reason to do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u46	Mr President! I was also a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health this morning to hear experts from the THL and the STM, and I was convinced that this was really under the control of the authorities. About ten years ago, when swine and avian influenza were present, I was a teacher and I remember that there were different guidelines in schools to prevent the disease from being infected. Now I would ask Mr Andersson: is it known to you that similar measures are now coming to Finnish schools?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u47	Mr President! Thank you very much for this information. I am experiencing something so experientially with you because I was a minister at the time when there was swine flu and, of course, I will give you all the help I can give you in this matter. It was a hard time, but we got through it and learned a lot from it. And I can say that the Finnish health care staff is doing everything they can. We have excellent contingency plans and they will be set in motion in good time if they are needed, and they are, of course, needed now. The government has also done a great job. In many speeches, it is not enough, but we all have to do something. At the time when there was swine flu, I thought — and it became a feedback — Finns were taught to cough up their sleeves and wash their hands. It also took some media to help. Now that I know that even this opportunity, this debate, is being presented by the Finnish Broadcasting Company,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u48	Mr President! It has already become clear during this debate that there is no reason for any kind of haste in this country, because so far there are still few infections. The importance of washing hands has been shown, and perhaps it is good to consider travelling to those limited epidemic areas. I would have asked now that we know that these viruses have actually come to Finland on the basis of tourism: How does the government intend to prevent this introduction of the interest rate to Finland? If necessary, is the government also prepared to take action to limit the passage to Finland? These are questions that people have become, and I am sure the public would also like to hear the answers to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u49	Mr President! There has been a good debate here, and the situation is that the number of infections in China is falling. I think there are more people recovering than there are new infections, and now the next few weeks will show how things are happening in the rest of the world — Europe, the United States, we have seen news from South Korea. There must be vigilance here, and it is very good that the government has brought this information. This is where the role of the media has been highlighted. For my part, too, I must thank you for the fact that the majority of the media have been very active and very calm in providing the right information. The role of the media is also an important part of a functioning society. It is precisely in this situation that the strength of Finnish organised society emerges. We have state-of-the-art health care staff, public authorities, state-of-the-art preparedness at international level, and what we politicians can do here is precisely to discuss this without enthusiasm and, for our part, to signal that we will give all the support to the authorities and the government in this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u50	Ärade Herr Talman! Det är viktigt att myndigheterna fortsätter hålla medborgarna informerade om situationen med coronaviruses. Information och transparens är byggstenar för tilliten i vårt samhälle och för att inte onödig oro ska kaskapas. THL och andra myndigheter har skött sin uppgift på ett föredömligt stätt genom att ordna press conference och genom att uppdatera information på sina hemsidor. Det är synnerligen viktigt att information ges i ett så tidigt skde som öjligt och att informationen också ges på svenska.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u51	Mr President! The Christian Democrats attach the utmost importance to the fact that, in this situation, we are together in support of the work done by the authorities and, indeed, we are not falling into politics or prosecution here, but are also, as political parties, working together in such situations. It is also important that we receive transparent and rapid, real-time information, and the importance of communication and information flow during this period is particularly emphasised. Open information prevents various types of excesses and also incitement to all kinds of panic. I would have liked to ask the corresponding minister about this European level of preparedness. In other words, Mr Räsänen has already asked whether it has been considered, for example, that these quarantine regulations should be looked at together to see whether there is a uniform line in them. Today, however, within Europe, this situation varies from one country to another. Have health ministers, for example, been able to hold a joint meeting?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u52	Mr President! The strengthening of knowledge-based decision-making is enshrined in the Government Programme, and I think that the Government's sharp, well-founded decision-making in this corona situation is a model example of how to act on the basis of information provided by researchers and experts, and thank you to the Government for that. The Corona virus is also an example of how we live in a global world where viruses and bacteria do not know borders, and it is therefore very good to remember what we need development funds for: for example, that developing countries are able to strengthen their own health systems and prevent the spread of different viruses and epidemics. This is also an indication of what we need a strong health system and strong local health centres for.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u53	Mr President! Yes, Konsta Pylkkänen would say that the government has remote wisdom. That is to say, let us consider things in advance and let us imagine that, when it happens, the routes are clear. After all, we know that sometimes things leave things unhappily or in a different way. For the one who guesses these too, the world’s beach is light to go around. One thing that did not get very much up in this debate is food security. After all, we do not know whether this virus originates in a laboratory or is involved in the transmission of animal-borne disease to humans, as is often the case with these viruses. That is why it is important that Finnish people can trust Finnish food. For us, this kind of infection is extremely unlikely, and our food is the safest food in the world that has been studied. Let's use it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u56	Mr President! Thank you to the government for taking action quickly and also for good information for officials. For example, HUS’s Eve of Sweden and numerous good experts from THL have brought good information to Finns about this situation. Today I had a conversation with a mother. He told me that his nine-year-old son had, of course, received the first information from YouTube star Roni Bäck. It is also worth remembering that such channels can also be used to provide information in different situations, even if they are managed from there through ministries. Mr President! Some questions arise from citizens about direct flights from Italy between Lappeenranta and Bergamo. I would like to ask, Minister of Transport Harakka, whether in practice it is even possible for Finland to prevent such flights. I am not referring to return flights, but to the fact that we are still flying to Bergamo twice a week from Lappeenranta and coming back.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u57	Mr President! I believe that there were essential questions here which I would like to see answered at the end and which, at least, I myself receive mail from the citizens. How does this virus get infected? You're not doctors, but there was talk about how it's contagious. People are out there, and they're worried about it. Is it possible to move on trains? Do you need to come to work if you are afraid to leave because there are infections, for example, when there was talk the other day that a lady had been on the train and then there were doubts about this infection. These are the kind of questions. Then the second question battery or actually group is that there is still talk on the THL website that if there are visitors from the epidemic area, there is really nothing to worry about if they do not have the symptoms of the flu. Now I would like Minister Pekonen, or whoever it is, to have a discussion with the experts at THL, because this instruction has been the same for many weeks. Do you think that's all right anymore? You might want to ask yourself, of course, whether it is worth inviting those guests from the epidemic areas right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u58	Mr President! I would also like, for my part, to thank the Prime Minister for this announcement. It is very important that we have discussed this now, because the public has made a great deal of contact, and of course, when it comes to the flu season and so on, we can make some of these barriers easier. Perhaps I should like to emphasise once again that when I was in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health this morning, where this was discussed, it was well mentioned how the government has already started to prepare for this in January and a lot of determined plans have been made. I would perhaps like to point out to this debate the good work you have done in what you have now brought to this in the form of a statement by the Prime Minister. Nothing really but thanks, and we in the whole Parliament will then, together, help your important work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u59	Now there are so many questions for ministers that the rest of the time will be spent on the answers of the ministers. — Prime Minister, 3 minutes from the location.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u60	Mr President! Firstly, as regards the timing of this debate, of course, the government made an assessment that it is good to make a statement by the Prime Minister, which will enable Parliament to have a proper debate on this issue and then to respond to the concerns that exist in this Chamber and also to communicate this debate publicly. I would also like to thank the Finnish Parliament Group for that. I know that the wish has come from your group that, instead of Question Time, we will go through this Prime Minister's announcement at this point, [MikaNiikkoarvo] There was a question here about passenger testing, about what that would mean. In Finland, we follow WHO and ECDC recommendations on passenger testing, and they do not require additional passenger testing, such as measurement of fever. They are unreliable and do not effectively help to prevent the spread of the virus. Based on the evidence gathered so far, entry and exit controls have not been effective in identifying communicable diseases. Measures tend to identify a very small proportion of cases of disease. It is also clear that large-scale inspections would leave a considerable number of people with symptoms due to other diseases. So perhaps this is now a message from experts to see whether testing people at airports, for example, is necessary and reasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u61	Thank you. — Minister Pekonen, 2 minutes from the location.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u62	Mr President! I too would like to thank Parliament here for this very good and constructive debate. In particular, I would like to thank Mr Risikko, who has already left, for his encouraging words. Believe it or not, I've thought about him several times in the last few days. As Mr Risikko said in his own speech, lessons have been learned from previous epidemics, and now we are also gathering experiences for the future. I would like to say to Mrs Merelle that THL is currently updating its instructions and websites every day and I do not think I am the best person to assess the content of THL's newsletters. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also updated these travel recommendations over the last few days with regard to the virus, but we cannot, of course, prevent individuals from travelling, it is the responsibility of each person. Mr Essayah and some others drew attention to EU-international cooperation. In fact, Minister Kiuru represented Finland at that meeting of Health Ministers, where conclusions have been adopted which explicitly highlight this workable, good cooperation and the importance of coordination between EU Member States, and the Commission also strongly supports this work. In the context of this new corona virus, it was the health ministers who wanted to make the exchange of information more evidence-based and transparent, and also to increase intersectoral cooperation and coordination.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u63	Thank you. — Minister Kiuru, 2 minutes from the location.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u64	Mr President! First of all, it is good to say from the outset that when the first news came from China that a new virus has been discovered, which may be something we have never dealt with before, they naturally caused THL, whose task in Finland is to find out what is going on, to react immediately. Since then, the process has started in Finland, and we have then, according to our own responsibilities, focused on the key issues that are at our fingertips. At a very early stage, the Government has been negotiating together on what kind of virus it is. I am also pleased that last week, within the government, the debate on the involvement of Finns in this debate has taken place today, also under the leadership of Parliament. In this respect, I believe in open information, and we have made the decision, just yesterday, within the STM, that we now assume that this up-to-date THL information and the THL expert information will be made available to the public as far as possible. We also have the wrong information in the public domain, and it is good that people have the most up-to-date information, and that is what is needed in Parliament. Another important thing is that many people now, with quite a lot of respiratory infections on the move, are concerned about the kind of illness they are dealing with. So where can you call and ask for help or make sure that everything is all right? On behalf of the STM, we will now also press that we get such a national number that people can call. As soon as this process comes to an end, we will state publicly how this will be introduced in the kingdom. People have questions [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u65	Mr President! Here were also a few questions from representatives regarding preparedness in Finnish day care centres and Finnish schools and educational institutions. At present, schools and trainers are monitoring THL’s communication — health authorities are responsible for informing health authorities — and are, of course, following the instructions given by the authorities. As far as the issues raised in this Chamber today are concerned, for example, the importance of hand hygiene, in which day-care centres and schools also have an important educational responsibility, in order to be able to teach and make clear to young children how important hand hygiene is in situations like this and, of course, in terms of health in general. In addition, educational institutions are currently going through contingency plans and operational processes that should exist in the event of an epidemic and ensure that these are up to date. The Finnish National Board of Education and the Ministry of Education and Culture also monitor the situation and are ready to cooperate with the THL, if necessary, to further enhance joint communication on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u66	Mr President! The Ministry of Transport and Communications monitors the situation of all transports and coordinates measures where necessary. The competent authority is Traficom, which may, for example, restrict or suspend air transport or rail transport. Such action will only be taken on the basis of an assessment and presentation by health authorities and the current action will follow the recommendations of health experts. We must remember that in addition to direct flights, for example, we have different routes through third countries to Finland. Every day, Traficom performs a review of the situation in close cooperation with Finavia, Finnair, Lappeenranta Airport, Väylä, VR, HKL and many other actors, and our representative also participates in a separate preparedness group of the Government, which is represented in all key ministries. On behalf of Mrs Myllykoski, it is true that the epidemic in China has affected production and transport, especially as part of passenger air transport, but the international logistics environment is quite flexible to come up with new routes, and I believe that it is, of course, in the interest of both Chinese component suppliers and Finnish buyers to try to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u67	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u68	Mr President! The Government of Prime Minister Sanna Marin aims to improve the participation and employment conditions of those who are able to work part-time. The present proposal makes further clarifications on the law on rehabilitative work activities. The law provides for measures aimed at improving the conditions for long-term unemployed to move towards an open labour market. Rehabilitating work activities are social services. It's the Department of Social Affairs and Health. It is intended for persons who are unable to find employment in the open labour market or to participate in TE services because of restrictions on their working or functional capacity. In this respect, rehabilitative work activities are secondary to other TE services and the possibility of providing work or TE services must always be explored first. If this is not possible due to restrictions on working and functional capacity, the activation plan will include rehabilitative work activities. The Rehabilitation Work Act dates back to the year 2000 — it is about time we reconsidered. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has already stated that it is important for the achievement of the objectives of the law to emphasise the tailoring of rehabilitative work activities according to the individual needs, abilities and wishes of each individual. In practice, however, it has been established that even people who are not actually its target group have been directed to work. The link between work activities and social care has also been weak in some places. In some cases, the activation plan has even not been drawn up in its entirety, even though it should be through rehabilitation activities. Mr President! The Government proposal aims to strengthen the right of a person in rehabilitating work to good social care. The law would provide for the organisation, production and content of rehabilitative work activities in greater detail. The service package of rehabilitative work activities should include a person’s life management and services that promote work and functional ability, and should always include the support and guidance needed by the person. The customer’s activation plan should also include support and guidance to the customer during the rehabilitation work activities and the objective of the operation. By registering in the law the content of the rehabilitative work activities and the requirement for support and guidance to the person, it can be ensured that the rehabilitating work activities are carried out in accordance with individual needs. Support and guidance can be carried out not only as a personal but also as a group service or as a combination of other services. The service can be acquired from the company or included in the entities produced by third-sector operators on the basis of purchasing service contracts with municipalities, and of course the municipality itself can provide the service itself. According to the law already in force, the municipality can carry out the services in many different ways, including in a personal and high-quality way. Other services, such as social welfare, health and rehabilitation services, can also be combined with rehabilitative work activities in the future. However, implementation has not always been in line with the objectives of the law, and implementation has been diverse in municipalities. In some cases, the link between rehabilitative work and social care has also remained thin, although the municipality should be responsible for drawing up an activation plan for the social welfare professional. That is why the proposal has made some clarifications to the actual provisions, but also in the explanatory memorandum it has highlighted more specifically issues that should already have been taken into account under the existing provisions. Mr President! In 2017, THL estimated that around three per cent of the participants in the rehabilitation work activity were employed in the open labour market. If the services needed by those involved in rehabilitative work activities can be better tailored to their situation, this will also improve their access to and rehabilitation of the open labour market. The programme of Prime Minister Sanna Marin's government highlights the need to increase the participation of people with partial capacity for work, those who are difficult to employ, young people, older people and those with immigrant backgrounds in the labour market. The Government is now seeking to improve access to and employment for these groups, and this is how the Government Programme states that the system of rehabilitative work activities will be reformed through social rehabilitation, taking into account the individual need for rehabilitation of the long-term unemployed or a person with low labour market status, in order to strengthen the working life capacity and ensure social inclusion. In other words, this is a small but still very important proposal which contributes to these central objectives of the government and to the individual's ability to get back in.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u69	Mr President! There have been criticisms of the law-rehabilitating work activity that it is not precise enough. It has even been argued that abuses of the law, such as cases where a person in rehabilitating work has done the same work as others, but only without pay, would be explained by the lack of clarity of the law and the weak steering effect of the law. That is not true. The original law prohibits all forms of business-based service procurement related to rehabilitative work activities. The work input of a participant in the work must not end up in favour of a private company without compensation. It is equally clear that such opportunities are always misused. The experience of our neighbouring country, Sweden, of a wide range of subsidised employment services shows a harsh language about how particularly cheap, even free, labour is being exploited. Furthermore, in Finland, the Regional State Administrative Agency has not been able to take an unambiguous position on cases where the participant in the rehabilitative work activity has clearly done a job requiring a salary. However, Avi has also stressed that rehabilitation activities are social services and are not intended for those unemployed who are able to participate in public employment services or in employment. It is good that the legislation is now being clarified. Further rehabilitation activities should not be acquired from a profit-making company. However, the regulation will be specified in such a way that support and guidance to a person involved in rehabilitative work activities can also be obtained from companies providing such services, in addition to organisations and other entities. Rehabilitating work is a social policy. When offering activities and motivation to a disabled person and a person who has fallen from the labour market, it can have significant human and well-being effects. One of the most important results is that a person moves away from home with other people. Timetable, alarm clock, participation, food break, and similar things help people in the worst condition. Many participants also have a substance abuse problem. Rehabilitating work is not a means of employment. Very rarely, as the Minister described, the people involved enter the open labour market in only about 3% of cases. When the rehabilitative work activities end, people are likely to move back to being unemployed and basic services, or to work experience training or work trial. When a person moves into rehabilitative work activities, however, in some registers he ends his unemployment, even though he is not considered employed. Neither the unemployment rate nor the other way round can be calculated from the employment rate. Of course, even more importance is given, for example, to pay subsidies, which are counted as direct employment. These definitions are relevant, inter alia, when monitoring the development of unemployment and employment rates in the country. For example, Statistics Finland has two different definitions of employment. On the other hand, Statistics Finland's employment and unemployment rates differ from those of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. That should be clarified. People in rehabilitation activities, traineeships, work trials and similar social policy measures should not be counted as employed or non-unemployed. It is essential to determine whether the person is an active jobseeker at the same time in TE services or in social policy or other activities. Mr President! The current change in the law aims to improve the support and services received by customers involved in rehabilitative work activities. Time shows whether this has any impact on the open market in terms of employment, especially when the resources of municipalities are increasingly tight. In any case, it is clear and necessary that the situation should be followed up on concrete consequences.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u70	Mr President! The purpose of rehabilitative work activities is to improve the life management of the person involved and to create the conditions for participation, in particular in employment, but also in public employment services. At present, those involved in rehabilitative work are rarely transferred to an open labour market. The activities are therefore focused on improving the customer’s own life management, and rehabilitative work activities are not intended for those unemployed who are able to participate in public employment services or work. There are now clarifications which oblige municipalities to ensure that action is targeted and that support and guidance for individuals is provided. People can't just be driven forward in mass. In recent years, regional government agencies have had to deal with rehabilitative work. Studies have been carried out on whether unpaid work by the unemployed has replaced paid work and whether municipalities have misdirected the unemployed into rehabilitating work. It is therefore important to include a provision on the definition of the content of work activities in the law and to emphasise the importance of the activation plan. At present, there are municipalities that have misdirected customer rehabilitation activities with social security and social security, while at the same time they have been organised in normal workplaces, distorting competition. The input of customers in rehabilitative work activities must not be used to seek financial profit. It is important that people who are undergoing rehabilitation are also given motivational activities. Frustration does not promote rehabilitation. It must be remembered that the customers of rehabilitative work activities are adults and children’s games do not deliver, even though they have tried to do so. Similarly, humiliating a customer does not contribute to rehabilitation, not even if it is threatened.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u71	Mr President! I hope that this is an important government proposal, despite the fact that this proposal does not significantly alter the legal situation. The law provides for clarifications such as that the rehabilitation work activities are aimed at persons whose ability to work is not sufficient to participate in labour market policy measures, or that support and guidance must be included in the activation plan. The big question is what is needed for this government proposal when these elements are clearly read from the government's proposals already in 2000. These facts can be re-readed from the Ministry’s instructions to municipalities for 2014. If our municipal court is not completely illiterate, all the information that is now being introduced into a legal text should have been available to the public for 20 years now. Nevertheless, we know that rehabilitation work has been abused repeatedly, extensively and all over Finland, contrary to what the legislator has required. Well, as a result, as the legal situation does not change significantly, it is not expected that this bill will bring much change to the municipalities where the work has been done properly until now. Indeed, hope is now being directed at those municipalities that do not have: whether or not now changes will finally be made. One thing, and one important thing about rehabilitating work, is the lack of which I would have liked to see here, namely the clarification of the obligation to rehabilitate work activities and its relationship with financial sanctions. Rehabilitating work activities are social services, i.e. social services, and, despite this, refusing to engage in rehabilitation work can lead to a denial of basic security, in some cases even major cuts in last-minute benefits. When we think about what kind of group this is, such a regulation is in many ways problematic. So it is now a question of people whose ability to work is so weak that, by definition, they cannot be employed with even 100% wage support. In other words, if you end up in rehabilitative work activities when other labour market policies are not possible for you — and the lack of access to these measures in the municipality is no reason to put anyone into rehabilitative work — then it is a person who no one agrees to take a job even for free, because that is what 100% wage subsidy means. In other words, if there is a capacity for work, there are very few, and there are often a lot of problems in life management, in health, in coping with everyday life and in social interaction. Is it really appropriate that the social services provided to such a group should have such severe sanctions — in proportion to the far more severe sanctions than many of our criminal sanctions — when it comes to how much money is involved in relation to the level of income of these people? I'm going to give you two examples of what I've been working on myself. Another person was placed in rehabilitative work activities. He himself was willing to go, but he suffered from a severe panic disorder and then did not dare to go there on the first day to rehabilitate work but stayed at home. He was afraid to take the bus to work there, because that bus ride felt so scary. He lost his unemployment benefit and his income support was cut by 20 per cent. Then he was discussed, and he said that he would try to go there a second time ago. Well, he couldn't leave his house the second time either. His income support was cut by 40 per cent. Now he hangs out at his home for 300 euros a month. At no time has he been in a doctor’s office so that he could receive medicines that might allow him to venture away from his home but to go to a safe local store, and perhaps sometime in the future to do rehabilitation work there. Another example: a person who has been seriously addicted to substance abuse, used mixed drugs and alcohol, as well as various prescription drugs, went to rehabilitative work, but then did not want to go there anymore because there were so many drugs and he felt that his sobering was at such an uncertain level at the point that he was afraid to be in an environment where pills are offered all the time. He also received these strict sanctions. In these cases, is it not the people who need help in order to put the greatest harm in their lives, the sanctions that automatically come from that machine to anyone who is guilty of labour policy reprehensible activity, unlike all the services that often need to be fought harder than the people most in need of these services actually have resources? I also know many people for whom rehabilitating work has been a rescue, who have been very enthusiastic about it and who have felt that it benefits their lives a lot and has put it on the new track of life. Rehabilitative work activities can be large and significant and useful social services, but they are not when people are forced to do so, at least without the capacity to go that path alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u72	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Kiuru, for a clear presentation. This proposal for a change in the law in relation to rehabilitative work includes clarifications to the current law, which was adopted in 2001. Rehabilitative work activities are intended for people who are unable to find employment in the open labour market or participate in TE services due to restrictions on their ability to work and work. This is particularly important for people who can face a wide range of challenges and problems in everyday management, substance abuse, mental health problems and so on. Why, then, is there a need to change the law? Mr Kontula also asked above. The current law has been considered somewhat unclear. Practices vary across Finland. Not everywhere has been done according to the law’s reasoning. People who do not belong there may also have been directed to rehabilitative work. Over the past few years, regional government agencies have addressed these shortcomings in rehabilitating work. Some people in rehabilitative work have not received the social services required by law. In fact, the Government Programme included the following: ‘The rehabilitation system is reformed through social rehabilitation, which takes account of I am concerned about the escape of comprehensive TE services too far from people in sparsely populated areas. Rehabilitating work activities must not be a substitute for TE services in the absence of services. The lack of adequate provision of TE services in the municipality or neighbouring areas does not provide an acceptable legal basis for directing a person to rehabilitative work activities. This will always be achieved through an individual activation plan or a cross-cutting employment plan. The Act provides more detailed information on this content of the activation plan and on the issues to be recorded in the activation plan concerning the rehabilitation work activities. The TE Office and the municipality are obliged to draw up the plan in cooperation with the unemployed person. According to the law, the possibility of providing employment or TE services to a person must always be investigated first. Only if a person is unable to participate in these services and work due to limitations on his/her ability to work will the activation plan include rehabilitative work activities. It is therefore a secondary service in relation to TE services. This in itself will not change in the reform. Mr President! Rehabilitation work activities are social services in accordance with the Social Welfare Act. It is also governed by the law on the status and rights of a social care customer. The proposal strengthens the customer's right to good social care. This objective applies to municipalities at the moment, but with the clarifications to the law, it is just as much as it is intended to ensure that the objectives set for legislation are better achieved. The law is new that the activation plan should in future record the support and guidance given to the customer during that rehabilitating work activity. The aim of the action must also be written in the plan. Of course, the support and guidance received by the person during the rehabilitative work activities service can be implemented in many ways. Support and guidance can also be obtained from a company-based service provider or included in various service packages produced by third-sector operators on the basis of purchasing service contracts concluded with municipalities. The municipality can also provide support and guidance services itself. Support and guidance can be implemented not only as a personal but also as a group service or combined with other services. However, this must not be mass activity. According to the proposal, the whole of rehabilitative work activities must include services promoting the person's life management and working and functional ability. Rehabilitative work must not distort competition, i.e. it must not be an activity in a competitive market and must not generate profits for companies. Mr President! It's important that anyone who can get a fingernail gets a job. Regular work brings rhythm to a person’s life. So that everyone can get back on board, as Minister Kiuru said, I therefore support this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u73	Mr President! Raising the employment rate is one of our most important tasks and it is clear that we need to mobilise all possible means if we are to achieve our employment objectives. The government's employment objective requires greater participation in the labour market of young people with disabilities, and so on, all groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u74	Mr President! Municipalities organise rehabilitative work activities for long-term unemployed people who receive labour market support or income support and who are unable to participate in the priority services of the TE administration due to their working and functional capacity. There will be no working or service relationship between the person and the person who organises or implements the activities. However, rehabilitation shall not replace employment in a service or employment relationship, nor shall it result in redundancies or lay-offs or deterioration of working conditions or benefits for employees employed by the municipality or other persons carrying out the activity. In addition to employers and employees, however, care must be taken to ensure that the rights of a person in rehabilitating work, that is to say the person who works for it, are equally respected, and I think it would be good to see his importance and weight in the books. Nor should work that does not actually support the individual needs and employment of the person performing the work activity be carried out at the expense of people in rehabilitative work. Rehabilitative work must not result in exclusion or inequality in the labour market or in access to the labour market. However, according to the feedback received from the field, many people are caught for unnecessarily long periods in rehabilitative work activities or still lack work after the completion of the work activity, even if the capacity for transition to employment is sufficient. In order to achieve the weight for which it is intended, it is essential that an appropriate activation plan is drawn up for the person performing the work on the basis of his individual needs. The definition of the target is also essential for the success of rehabilitation and, above all, the involvement of the person who is guided by work activities in the planning and implementation of the target and the steps defined to achieve it. Rehabilitative work activities should be more genuinely inclusive.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u75	Mr President! Rehabilitating work activities are an important form of action not only for employment but also for preventing exclusion. And, as the Minister has already said in his presentation, the law needs reform and clarification for many reasons, and tailoring rehabilitation measures to each need is very important. However, the work itself does not make anyone happy, but it takes increased self-confidence through doing things, a salary that you can live on, and, above all, the caring people around, the friends and work community. And when we want to activate the long-term unemployed, we also need to take care of our attitude, that it is encouraging for a permanent return to work. I will now take advantage of the opportunity of the Minister being here. For several years now, I have been talking about young people who are under 25 years of age. So there has been great concern because many young people may have been a support customer for years. How are these young people taken into account in this rehabilitation work?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u76	Mr President! The Government's proposal to amend the law on rehabilitative work activities is timely and very important. It is clear that for a long-term unemployed person who has other difficulties — in trying to get him back on the track, in trying to get life back on track, and then, above all, in trying to employ him somewhere — this possibility of the law is extremely important. And in the bill, here, what we are dealing with, is the guidance and support for an important part that the person necessarily needs. The recent memory is the employment of the last parliamentary term, when jobs were created quite fairly. Long-term unemployment fell to about half, and I think it went a little under it. In other words, it shows that when jobs are available, the long-term unemployed will also have a genuine chance to enter the labour market. It is clear that it is extremely difficult for a person with certain work constraints to be admitted, but that is certainly not impossible. That guidance and support and that helping a person in that difficult situation gradually forward is the most important thing. And what is more, what is best is that he will not be excluded from this society when he is involved in rehabilitative work. Let's give him a precise plan of how to do it, and let's have the support people around him to help us move forward in the first steps. And that is what this government proposal is about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u77	Mr President! First of all, I must thank the Government and Minister Kiuru for bringing this proposal to us in Parliament. This is particularly important for us Social Democrats. As we know, it has been a long time since these abuses have occurred and have been directed towards rehabilitating work activities without justification. It is very important to us that this law is now being clarified and these rules of the game are being clarified. It is known that there is a need for this rehabilitation work and that we will be able to get help and support for people, but these abuses must now be tackled vigorously. I also think it is important, now that we are doing this reform of employment services, which strengthens the role of municipalities in the management of employment, that this is a key part of this reform, that it does not happen that these are possibly abused by municipalities. For example, we had an interesting situation in Pirkanmaa when avi advised that rehabilitative work activities cannot be used if there are health reasons for this. I can't believe it. That is why I would like to point out that this clarification of the law is important and, above all, it is extremely important to bring the supervisory authorities and their information to the field. This law itself: As has already been said here, there are a number of points in this proposal that need to be clarified, for example, this strengthens the right of the customer to good social care. The new element here is the need to record an activation plan with this support and guidance to the customer during the work activities. In addition, it is important that the content of rehabilitative work activities is now more clearly defined in law and specifically in relation to services promoting life management, work and functional ability in rehabilitative work activities. The concepts of organisation and production will also be clarified. In other words, it has been here, for example, to be able to take part in work training if you have a private organiser and everything — now we have clear rules of the game. In conclusion, perhaps I should like to thank you once again for clarifying these practices. This has been a problem for far too long, so to speak. This must now be addressed, and this is a good way of clarifying this issue. Now, in committee, we will continue to consult and then we will bring the Minister any needs that may arise if that is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u78	Mr President! As has been said many times here, the current law has been considered somewhat unclear, to put it mildly. It has also been pointed out many times here that people who do not belong there have been directed to rehabilitative work. Of course, it is already a sign that something is wrong when regional government agencies have had to intervene in this activity over the last few years, even several times. Since social services would also be included in this new change, it is certainly very important that it should be clarified, because, as has been said here, social services have been excluded from this in many circumstances. It is important that rehabilitative work should not distort competition or operate in competitive markets. In fact, the personal feedback I have received from that field is that the municipalities actually operate in a very different way across Finland in this work activity. After all, rehabilitative work activities should by no means be a way for municipalities to save — cannot be saved at the expense of people. Unfortunately, this has been used as a means of avoiding these fines, which would have been possible in labour market matters. There really is a need for this reform of the law, and by the latest it is time to remember what this law is for. Its focus must be on man, its focus must be on man's need and the desire to return to the labour market, and its focus must be on the means to improve man's ability to work and work. This will help to improve human dignity, among other things. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u79	Mr President! Here is a good point: let us go a little bit to tighten up these rules, how we do not abuse rehabilitative work. If you think about these issues arising from the need for rehabilitative work, I think Mr Kontula brought in a good list of them and how they do not play. On the other hand, Mr Huttunen said very well about the role of municipalities that it was a way for municipalities to circumvent this fine. I think you have to cut off all these things from the point of view, that you use as a kind of free labor and then take advantage of yourself from there through the other way. I myself have been playing with the unemployed since the recession of the 1990s, and I have been involved in all these aspects of wage support and obligation employment and in these rehabilitation activities until 2009, and I have come to the conclusion that this rehabilitation work is only an extremely small part of what is needed to get the unemployed in order. We need more pay support because wage support work is something that directs itself to the well-being of the unemployed: He gets paid for the work done, his absolute dignity grows, self - esteem improves. It prevents exclusion and improves the quality of life when you receive an account, it also improves the working capacity to start looking for a new job. In that sense, I am pleased that the government has considerably expanded these opportunities for job creation in support of wage subsidies, so that these jobs can also be found on the organisation side. On the whole, I think that this reform is only a small part of what we need to do for the long-term unemployed, but I would like to see a general rule and a specific direction for this pay support work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u80	Mr President! It's been nice listening to this conversation. The situation of the unemployed, the long-term unemployed and those who are completely out of the labour market seems to be talking about all of us despite the party boundaries. It has already been pointed out quite well in this debate that this is not a question of employment services but of social services, and I therefore have little doubt that this government proposal will not increase the employment rate — and in a sense it should not be raised, because it is a question of a decent life for people who are not on the labour market. They are not even long-term unemployed, or they are, but they are even more, that is, even further away. It is good to note that these abuses of the municipalities have also been raised in the debate, and I have little doubt that this legislative amendment may not be able to affect them unless we in the committee come up with some ways to increase this, but we should certainly pay more attention to this. There have been problems that such rehabilitative work activities are used for productive activities and chained with long chainings, and there is also the doubt that this is used as a safe haven for the long-term unemployed to clean up statistics and other things. But what is the biggest problem is that there are no professional instructors available to direct the rehabilitation work, that is, the personal advice and assistance, and that is what this bill will hopefully bring some help to it now. But then it should also be borne in mind that the disadvantages of unemployment should be prevented even at the point when the ability to work remains and not only when all the ability to work has already been exhausted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u81	Mr President! The aim of the draft law under discussion is to improve the inclusion and conditions for employment of part-time workers. The conditions for long-term unemployed people to move towards an open labour market will also be improved. This reform also aims to strengthen the right of the customer to good social care and to ensure that rehabilitative activities are targeted and that support and guidance is provided. The government is now reforming rehabilitative work through social rehabilitation. In the future, greater account will be taken of the individual need for rehabilitation of the long-term unemployed or those with low labour market status in order to strengthen their working life capacity and ensure their social inclusion, which I believe is most important in all employment services. Unfortunately, it is precisely with regard to individual support that we are lagging behind the level offered by the other Nordic countries. By registering in the law the content of the rehabilitative work activities and the requirement for support and guidance to the person, we will ensure that the rehabilitating work activities will be carried out in line with individual needs in the future. Mr President! According to the law currently in force, municipalities can already implement rehabilitation services in many different ways. However, there has been a great deal of variation in regional implementation. There are areas in Finland where rehabilitation activities have been carried out in an individual and high-quality way, and then there are areas where implementation has not met the objectives of the law. This is exactly what the government is going to do. In the future, the service package of rehabilitative work must always include services that promote the person’s life management, work and functional ability, and support and guidance for the person’s needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u82	Mr President! This is an important bill, because rehabilitative work is being abused at the moment and practices in rehabilitating work have often been inefficient. There are people who do not belong in rehabilitation activities and, on the other hand, the activities are not always rehabilitative. Rehabilitative work activities are intended for persons who are unable to participate in public employment services or in employment because of limitations on working or functional capacity. Now this bill makes the activity goal-oriented and also obliges individual support, guidance and training. In the case of people who are often hard to work, for example, problems with substance abuse and mental health or other comprehensive social problems must first be dealt with before it is even possible in principle to move towards the labour market. More attention must therefore be paid to the integration of rehabilitative work activities with the social, health and rehabilitation services needed by the person, public employment services and other services and support measures. That is the aim of this bill. It must be based on the fact that the person’s working and functional capacity has been assessed as comprehensively as possible and on this basis a goal-oriented, individual and personal plan will be drawn up together with the person on the path to employment or even improve life management. In the future, municipalities will become a more stringent obligation to receive the support and guidance they need and to ensure that customer and service processes are of high quality and effective. I personally believe that it is even possible to increase the number of people entering the open labour market from rehabilitative work. It is not easy, of course, but it is possible if we do the right thing. Mr President! In the case of hard-to-work people, it is emphasised that they are sufficiently long-term. As has been mentioned here in one of the speeches, there is indeed a need for skilled instructors — the director cannot be just anyone, as is currently the case in many places, so that the director is not equipped or trained for this demanding director's task. This is something that needs to be taken into account in the future. I myself am involved in many employment projects, employment projects for those who are hard to work, for example as chairman of the steering group. I have seen that this parallel and personal work training has produced great results. I personally believe that this also works in rehabilitative work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u83	Mr President! If the purpose of this law, as it seems to be intended, is to safeguard the rights of the hard-to-work unemployed and to prevent abuse of rehabilitative work activities in municipalities, it is strange that at the moment, at least in Turku and Jyväskylä, the activities of the unemployed associations are being actively pushed down by municipal decisions. In my home town of Turku there are two large associations of unemployed people, the unemployed in the Turku Region, the current TST ry, and then the Unemployed in Varissuon, the VT ry, and both of their funding has been cut in such a way that the activity is really at stake. Varissuo The unemployed are threatening to end completely by autumn. These two associations have organised not only rehabilitative work in the context of their cafeteria activities but also wage support work, and it is really strange that the City of Turku, with its own solutions — which, of course, are partly based on the solutions of the regional TE administration, the employment administration, but also on the city’s own solutions — is driving this activity down. I have submitted a written question to the Minister on this, and I would like to make sure that this is not the purpose of the state's policy in any case, but that it is perhaps just the policy of the City of Turku. In my view, this rehabilitative work activity has been used there in a questionable way, purely because of this Kela list in the economic sense as a means of saving, and has not been cared for since this actual job creation. This is indeed the case not only in Turku but also in Jyväskylä with regard to the activities of unemployed associations. Somehow it seems that these cities are driving the third sector out of this employment, and that is not the purpose of the future experiment of local government employment, is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u84	Now Minister Kiuru, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u85	Mr President! There were a huge number of good speeches here and, in fact, every speech that was made was very well-informed and left out of the assumption that, when the law is quite old, it has been guided by the law since 2000, and it has been instructed on top of it, but the fact is that the problems have continued, then it is absolutely absolutely necessary to intervene in it by means of more specific legislation. In fact, these clarifications are not very large, and someone might say that this is not a very big move, but it is moving in exactly the right direction. We have a number of municipalities that have done exactly according to the letter of the law, but then we have unfortunate cases where this has not happened, and now we are going to influence the people who have not interpreted this current law quite according to the letter of the law. Here are some good examples of the fact that unpaid work by the unemployed cannot under any circumstances replace paid work. It also means that rehabilitation cannot continue to be based on the fact that it is acquired directly from the company, i.e. in practice it would actually circumvent the rules of the labour market, and this cannot be done. As far as aid and guidance are concerned, it has been considered that this would not be a problem, and this could still be the case, and it would also be possible to obtain from organisations. This is, of course, an issue that you can also assess in committee. According to the information I have received, when there was a rather big debate here also at the time of the drafting of the law, I have considered that, at this stage, removing it could have led to the fact that both companies but, at worst, even the third sector could have been on some difficult ice. Well, good speeches were also made here about whether the municipalities have misdirected the unemployed into rehabilitating work activities or whether they have been based on criteria that can be calculated on them. I think Mr Kontula raised good examples, the examples of real life that we are also aware of. This is a difficult sport now, when there is constant controversy as to whether the rehabilitation of work should actually be at the core of the Ministry of Employment and Employment. I have strongly opposed this because rehabilitative work is part of social policy. So it is social work at its best, and that is why Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said that this is a step in the right direction. This is precisely the fact that directors must also be competent, and this should be the best form of adult social work, bringing the whole range of social services into it. That is not enough, because these examples by Mr Kontula are also about the fact that health services have not been brought into this line of action. These are serious things. [The President knocks ] Let me conclude by saying that I am well aware that this is now one part of the social work that is being done, but this is where new elements need to be introduced. At the moment, we are at the Ministry specifically considering whether health centres should also have such advice on how to work and how to function.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u86	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A debate on the 7th item of the agenda is also allowed in this context. The debate will start with the first signatory of the bill, Mr Kauma, and then Mr Vestman will present his own. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u87	Mr President! Finland’s laws on terrorism are left-over and too lax. They call for an early introduction at European level. At the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, the laws on terrorism have been on the table, particularly in relation to foreign fighters and their families in the camp in North-East Syria. In the interests of the safety of citizens and the fairness of the system, it is important that these persons be held accountable for their possible actions if and when they return to Finland. This requires that we also have the capacity to do this on behalf of the legislation. For example, the President Niinistö has taken a strong position on this issue on several occasions and most recently at the opening of the Parliament. He has said, among other things, that our legislation on terrorism is not ready but requires stricter measures. Mr President! However, Al-Hol is not the only reason why laws need to be reformed. It is a question of effective prevention of terrorist acts. At the moment, we have criminalised, among other things, the financing of terrorist activities and the recruitment of terrorist activities, but membership of a terrorist organisation or participation in a terrorist organisation has not been criminalised. In particular, membership of a terrorist organisation is justified by the fact that it would be difficult to define the constituent elements in such a way that the constitutional requirements of precision and precision are met. There is now a bill on criminalisation of participation in the activities of a terrorist organisation, i.e. in practice amending Chapter 34a of the Criminal Code and Article 33a of the Citizenship Act. The purpose of the initiative is to tighten up the laws on terrorism so that participation in the activities of the terrorist group can be sentenced to at least four months and up to eight years imprisonment. In addition, a person with dual citizenship could lose Finnish citizenship if he or she has been sentenced to imprisonment or a combined sentence of at least two years. To date, a minimum sentence of five years in prison or in combination has been required. Mr President! The argument that membership of a terrorist organisation and participation in terrorist activities cannot be criminalised is not valid. This has been the last public opinion of Professor Kimmo Nuoto in criminal law since the beginning of the year. He has seen the possibility of criminalising membership of a terrorist organisation, even if it is not simple to change the law. According to him, the legislation could be listed by means of a regulation as the terrorist organisations to which membership is punishable and, on the other hand, the criteria for belonging to a terrorist organisation could be, for example, that a person should demonstrate his own commitment to the activities of the organisation. He has also said that there should be something in the legislation that points to participation. Mr President! That is exactly what has been envisaged in this bill. The definition of a terrorist organisation in this bill is not arbitrary or grandiose, but precise and precise. Persons, groups and entities involved in terrorist acts, on the one hand, and persons and groups identified by the UN Security Council as being linked to and sanctioned by terrorism, on the other hand, shall be considered as terrorist organisations or terrorists in accordance with the EU terrorist list. Mr President! Since last year, I have been a member of the OSCE Counter-Terrorism Committee and thus participated in various meetings on the fight against terrorism and radicalisation. This has given me information on legislation in other countries, among other things. Unlike us, membership of a terrorist organisation has already been criminalised in several European countries, such as Norway, Denmark and France. Norway received new legislation on terrorism in 2013. According to paragraph 18 on terrorism, both recruitment and membership of a terrorist organisation are punishable. According to it, a total of 11 people have already been sentenced from ties to ISIS. In Denmark, membership of a terrorist organisation has already been criminalised under Article 114 of the Criminal Code in 2002. It has condemned several individuals for belonging to, enlisting in, financing activities or planning terrorist acts. In the French Penal Code, participation in the activities of any formed group with terrorist objectives, mentioned in previous articles of the Penal Code, is considered to be terrorist activity. One example from outside Europe is Canada. In Canada, a person who consciously participates directly or indirectly in the activities of a terrorist group in order to improve the capacity of a terrorist group and to promote or carry out terrorist activities is guilty of a crime that could result in a ten-year sentence of imprisonment. Mr President! The second point of my bill relates to the loss of citizenship. The grounds for the loss of nationality are laid down in the Citizenship Act. What can be laid down by national law on grounds of loss of nationality is defined by the European Convention on Citizenship. The legislation needs to be amended so that a new point is added to the list of offences on grounds of loss of citizenship: participation in the activities of a terrorist group. In addition, a minimum sentence of five years in prison or in combination must be reduced in such a way that citizenship could be lost as long as two years in prison and a combined sentence. The loss of citizenship could only concern a person who would also have the nationality of another State. A native Finnish citizen could also lose his or her citizenship on these grounds, and the Finnish Immigration Service would decide, as it is now. Mr President! The 2015 Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention requires the adoption of measures to ensure the criminalisation of participation in terrorist activities in the event of an unlawful or intentional act. The aim is to ensure that the authorities have the necessary powers to avoid acts of terrorism in advance. Unfortunately, we have to say that Finland has mainly achieved European and international minimum criminalisation obligations. It should also be noted that, unlike the control countries, in Finland, not a single person has been convicted of a crime from the conflict area of Iraq and Syria on his own. Mr President! According to a report issued this week, the government is setting up a working group to consider whether Finland’s legislation on terrorism should be tightened. The question should not be whether it should be tightened up, but how and how much more terrorism legislation should be tightened up. We have not been left behind in our legislation until now, which means that things have only been raised when it is too late. The environment in which the fight against terrorism operates is changing rapidly in Finland, and the threats posed by terrorism have changed and become more diverse. This week, the Coalition Party has presented a seven-point programme for the reform of the legislation on terrorism. This bill can be regarded as part of this package. At the same time, we must remember that the threat of terrorism can be internal as well as external. I recently visited Norway on the island of Utøya, where a native Norwegian brutally killed 69 young people in the Labour Party camp and eight additional persons in downtown Oslo. The timeliness of the terrorism laws alone would not have been enough to combat this act. Preventing radicalisation and exclusion and responding to early worrying signs and therefore root causes are also essential. In Norway, for example, the number of police officers was significantly increased after this event. There must also be properly trained troops and equipment in order to be able to act quickly enough in this situation. Mr President! Finally, whether it is an external or internal threat, the people involved in terrorist activities must be brought into effective criminal liability. Finland must not be a European pioneer in naivety. I hope that the working group set up by the Minister of Justice will take into account the definitions of the legislative initiative and the comments on the updating of the legislation. It is a duty for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u88	Mr President! ‘The world also has evil and not a mere repellent of goodwill. The good is to be protected, firmly, if you want to hold on to it.” That is what President Niinistö of the Republic said the other day. It is easy to agree with this view. On a world scale, the exceptional good and expensive that we have here in Finland — our values, our loved ones, our security — sometimes needs tough measures to protect ourselves. Hard international terrorism will not be defeated by soft means. Finland’s legislation on the fight against terrorism is lagging behind the other Nordic countries and Europe. The laws of terrorism in our country are more lax than those of the control countries. Finland has mainly implemented minimum standards for international and European obligations. The previous government made the necessary blackmails into the laws of terrorism, but this work was not completed. Unfortunately, the current government has so far even seemed naive in terms of terrorism. It has appeared that Finland has made a serious effort to pursue the European championship of blue-eyedness. The protection police estimate that the threat of terrorism in Finland has been ‘increased’ at the level. According to public information, Supo is following hundreds of people who are working for terrorism. Finland must react now and not when it is too late. According to Supo, more than 80 identified persons have left Finland in conflict areas in Syria and Iraq, of which approximately 20 have already returned to Finland. There's probably been more people leaving. Many of them have served the Isis terrorist organization. So these people, of their own free will, have gone out to serve the world’s most barbaric terrorist organization and the Caliphate of extreme horrors. The monstrous organization wants to use brutal means to destroy the heretics, according to its objective. Those who have gone to serve terrorism have turned their backs on Finnish society and our values. They have gone into an open fight against the dignity, freedom, integrity, security and democracy of others. Is it not a fair punishment for this kind of activity to be the removal of a passport, the loss of citizenship? It cannot be that we turn fundamental rights against these people and allow terrorism to build a nest, protected by the foundations of our society. With our legal initiatives, this is exactly what we are dealing with. Mr President! A typical feature of foreign terrorist offences is the difficulty of the evidence. However, becoming a guest may now become a criminal offence, including travelling for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence. Our legal initiatives propose the removal of citizenship from a person who has been convicted of travelling for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence. A similar law is laid down in Denmark. The European Convention on Citizenship, which binds Finland, is based on the permanent nature of citizenship. However, the agreement allows the loss of citizenship to justify the conduct of a person in a way that seriously jeopardises the vital interests of the State of the contract. Based on this flexibility, a change of law in 2019 may lead to the loss of citizenship by a person who has committed a serious treason, treason or terrorism offence against Finland’s vital interests, which has been punishable for at least eight years, and who has been sentenced to at least five years in prison or in combination. The legislation now needs to be further tightened up by extending the grounds for loss of citizenship enshrined in Article 33a of the Citizenship Act and adding travel to the list of offences for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence. The Convention on Citizenship allows for such a law, as has previously been interpreted in Denmark. The abolition of citizenship is only possible for a dual citizen because of international obligations. In addition, the bill proposes that the current requirement of the Citizenship Act for a prison sentence of at least five years be reduced so that citizenship could be lost as early as two years of imprisonment or a combined sentence. Thirdly, we propose that the provisions of Chapter 34a(5b) of the Penal Code on travel for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence should be tightened up in order to ensure that the offence has been committed incarcerated for a further period of at least four months and for a maximum of The tightening of the penalty scale is justified, inter alia, on the basis of the validity of the act. Finland has a wide national margin in terms of the penalty scale for travel offences and needs to be exploited. Mr President! In Finland, the basic problem with the legislation on the fight against terrorism is that the threshold for a conviction in Finland is far too high or too high. It is symbolic that not one person who has returned from the conflict area of Syria or Iraq has been convicted in Finland, even though charges have been brought against a terrorist offence. Among other things, it can be difficult to demonstrate a terrorist purpose. Finland should also make new criminalisations that address actual terrorist activity but where there is no need to demonstrate a terrorist purpose. Representative Kauma presented above our bill on the criminalisation of the involvement of a terrorist organisation. The involvement and membership of a terrorist organisation has been explicitly criminalised in several Western countries, such as Norway, Denmark, France and Canada. There have also been convictions in these countries for belonging to a terrorist organisation. Despite previous attempts, Finland has failed to criminalise membership of a terrorist organisation, even though the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism is in fact an obligation to do so. I think it is clear that in Finland the involvement of a terrorist organisation can be criminalised in a way that meets the requirements of punctuality and precision in criminalisation. It's just a matter of will. In addition to the new criminalisation, we are proposing in the bill to include the involvement of a terrorist organisation in the crimes leading to the loss of citizenship. Mr President! Our bill for blackmailing terrorist laws, now in the referral debate, is a central part of the list of measures to combat terrorism published by the Coalition Party this week. At the meeting, we want Finland to remain a safe country for everyone. We want Finland to act in the fight against terrorism during good weather. On the same day that the Coalition Party published its list, the government announced that it had set up a working group to evaluate the regulation of terrorist offences. An assessment of this is not enough; instead we need action. The list of measures in the seven paragraphs of the Coalition Party is concrete, feasible, carefully prepared and available to the Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u90	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The Committee of the Regions has adopted a number of amendments, including a number of amendments. Vestma's legislative initiatives address the real problem and are therefore to be welcomed. It is a pity that the reforms proposed by the Assembly were not implemented during the last period, when the atmosphere in both the Ministry of Justice and the Interior might have been more favourable than it is at present. Finland has become a safe haven for jihadists, from which you can organise and fund terrorist activities abroad, from which you can take part in such activities and go back to chilling when your war is turned and uncomfortable. The Syrian civil war and the Isis Caliphate have made this a topical issue, but it is not a new phenomenon. Already in the second decade, Finland and other Nordic countries travelled to Somalia to cut throats in the ranks of the terrorist organisation al-Shabaab. Indeed, Finnish legislation is neither up-to-date nor even at the same level as in the rest of Europe. No jihadist left Finland and returned here has even been prosecuted, not to mention convictions. In practice, therefore, you can participate in international terrorism without fear of consequences and even on social security. However, I doubt the effectiveness of the measures set out in the initiative. Consistent evidence of crimes committed in chaotic war zones is difficult to obtain. It is difficult to prove that a person has resided in the area for a specific purpose. Finnish citizenship can only be withdrawn from a person who also has the nationality of another country, and the threshold for losing citizenship would be very high, which is, of course, justified from the point of view of fundamental rights. Islamist terrorism springs from Islam and its backward interpretations. A large number of people come to Finland from countries such as Somalia and Iraq, where such a developing country Islam is mainstreamed. They bring with them a world view that prevents integration, and weak integration increases radicalisation. To allow such immigration is to beg for problems, and that is why we must try to prevent it, as the Finns of Finland suggest in their programme. Immigration legislation requires changes, but it would be a long way to go if the current legislation were to be interpreted more rationally. Secondly, Finland must make an unfavorable environment for conservative Islam. Concrete actions include the prohibition of face veils, explicit criminalisation of genital mutilation of children and control of mosques and Koran schools. And thirdly, the sale of Finnish citizenship must stop. The Finnish passport is one of the strongest travel documents in the world. Still, Finland distributes passports faster and less liberally than any other Western country. The period of residence required to obtain citizenship must be extended to at least 10 years, as required by the True Finns. And citizenship must be a reward for real integration, not something that is manipulating the comer into integration. Mr President! Terrorism is just one of the problems of radical Islam. Equally serious or more serious consequences are the ghettoisation of society and increasing social security costs. These problems are much easier and cheaper to prevent birth than to solve afterwards. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u91	Mr President! Realism beats naïveism, but unfortunately it's often only a delay. These legislative initiatives will hopefully bring a touch of realism into Finnish law. I am putting together the legislative initiatives of Mr Vestman and Mr Kauma in the same package — I understand that they are in line with their objectives and legal provisions. It is therefore a question of amending the citizenship law in so far as it is possible to lose citizenship if there is a dual nationality, and then, on the other hand, criminal law is being tightened in so far as you have travelled to another country for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence or are involved in a terrorist organisation. I shall take this opportunity to take a look at Mr Vestman’s legislative initiative: ‘The persons who, on their free will, have turned their backs to Finnish society and values and have sent to visit the It is therefore a question of these people not respecting to the least the international agreements on human dignity or warfare, or, in general, anything human that should be self-evident. Everything seems to be possible and allowed. We must take a stricter line on this kind of action, as has been done in these legislative initiatives. As a small detail on this initiative of Kauma: I was asked where this figure 390 on page 1 came from. It says here that ‘the number of persons to combat terrorism is currently around390 according to You don’t have to be a member of the Committee on Intelligence, and you don’t have to be in front of any other secret information — it’s enough to look at the official yearbook on the web, where these figures can be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u92	Mr President! In their own programme, the True Finns suggest that all citizens who commit terrorist offences must automatically be condemned to lose Finnish citizenship. I therefore welcome these proposals by Mr Kauman and Mr Vestman, because Finland has been pursuing a much too loose citizenship policy over the last few years, unlike many other countries in Western Europe, where the conditions for citizenship have been tightened on the contrary. In Finland, within the limits of the Convention on Citizenship, we have the possibility to extend the grounds for loss of citizenship. So why not make the most of this margin? The initiative strongly supports the loss of citizenship from a two-year prison sentence or a combined sentence instead of the current five years. As noted in the last legislative amendment, the requirement for a sentence of imprisonment sentenced to at least five years limits the number of possible cases far too small. The same consultation also pointed out that citizenship should be lost on the basis of crimes other than those mentioned in the proposal. I therefore believe that the penal code for travelling for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence should also be amended. With regard to this penalty scale, Finland has considerable national discretion that we should take advantage of.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u93	Mr President! At first I thought that I did not recall the past in this matter, but now that the representatives who drafted these initiatives themselves wanted to combine these initiatives with more general aspirations of the Assembly as a party and a group, I cannot help but recall how remarkable it is that, when the assembly held the seat of the Minister for the Interior throughout the previous parliamentary term and a large part of the Parliamentary term held the seat of the Minister of Justice, why did such efforts to tighten up the law on terrorism not proceed then? No one in the government would have objected to them, not before or after the reform of the government in the summer of 17, I believe. Why were they not promoted when it was easier? The current government seems to seek to obtain more of these people in Finland who would be suspected of these acts than to make them responsible for their actions. So is this some kind of profile in the opposition, or what is this all about? When these protection police target persons, who were just mentioned, crossed the border in 15 C.E. and their bags were carried by Finnish garrisons to the Tornio reception center, the then Home Secretary Orpo felt that the suspicion of the motives of these arrivals was racism. Has there now been some kind of change in the value base — I do not know what is at stake. But the initiatives themselves, if we go, are, of course, to be welcomed. Of course it would be a good thing if the criminalisation of a terrorist offence were to be intensified, if the result of the loss were to be lost to double citizenship of those guilty of terrorist offences and if it were to be possible to criminalise travel for terrorist purposes more effectively, although I suspect that these acts would now leave a gap where a person has travelled there before the legislation has entered into force and is now staying, can he be convicted of being there under this legislation? And if theoretically so, how would that evidence be collected in practice? Of course, I believe that this is more of a matter of will. If you want to do this, you will find the means, but I would be a little pessimistic with regard to the interpretations of Finnish legal scholars and fundamental rights. They've been seen here. In addition to such legislative initiatives, it would definitely be necessary for the Finns of Finland, mentioned in previous speeches, to make the conditions for citizenship stricter. And I would add that the acquisition of dual citizenship in general should also be tightened up so that there would be no automation to obtain dual citizenship as if as a subjective right when fulfilling the conditions, but there should be some reason why a person wants to be a citizen of both Finland and another country at the same time. Such a basis may be, for example, if the person’s parents are from Finland and this other country, but not just like that. Such that anyone who comes into the country buys citizenship and takes Finnish citizenship, retains former citizenship, goes on vacation in his own country for terrorist purposes or for less terrorist purposes — this cannot be the will of the Parliament that Finnish citizenships do this kind of fooling. Above all, when we talk about these matters, there should be more of a starting point and a status quo than any ambition that our legislation on immigration policy and terrorism is as strict as it is possible under international agreements and EU regulation. And only when it is as strict as it is possible under these agreements, in absolute terms, would it be possible to consider whether these agreements can be changed in any way. Now it seems more like the atmosphere of discussion is that agreements are used as a stick horse to say that nothing can be changed. This rhetoric always comes across that international agreements deny this, but they do not deny it. It's just a matter of will.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u94	Mr President! Both Mr Kauman and Mr Vestman's legislative initiatives to tighten up the legislation on terrorism are very welcome. Mr Kauma therefore proposes that participation in the activities of a terrorist association or group with a view to committing a terrorist offence or offences should be punishable at the risk of imprisonment for at least four months and up to eight years. Mr Vestman, on the other hand, suggests that travelling for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence could be sentenced to an equivalent length of imprisonment. These two legislative initiatives also include a proposal that an adult who has been found guilty of the said crime could lose Finnish citizenship if he had been sentenced to a sentence of at least two years. Under the current Citizenship Act, a minimum sentence of five years is required to lose citizenship. Mr President! Crimes of terrorism must be treated with extreme seriousness. The only way to guarantee the security of Finland and Finland is to have full zero tolerance for terrorism. It is particularly important to remember that, according to the threat assessment by the National Protection Police, there are several hundred people in Finland who are working for terrorist groups. As noted above, the number of persons targeted in the fight against terrorism by the protection police is currently close to 400 and continues to increase. In addition, according to the protection police, these target persons have increased their links with international terrorism and an increasing number of them have participated in armed activities or received terrorist training. The protection police have also recently stated that potential returnees from conflict areas in Iraq and Syria to Finland are likely to increase the threat of terrorism against Finland. And by summer 2017 at the latest, it showed that the threat is not just theoretical. Mr President! The threat of terrorism must be prepared with extreme care. Finland must be kept as safe as possible. We have been known for it in the world in the past years. Unfortunately, the situation has changed in recent years in a worrying direction, yet governments have hardly intervened. Our legislation needs to be developed rapidly, with all the necessary measures being taken to combat and prevent terrorism. Finland should take the example of stricter laws on terrorism in other countries, and, as President Halla-aho said earlier, there is also reason to tighten the conditions for granting Finnish citizenship considerably, as the Finns on a number of occasions have suggested here in Parliament. Mr President! Unfortunately, it seems that's what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u95	Mr President! Security is a strong foundation for a good society, and it is important that Parliament is able to respond to new security threats. In recent years, international terrorism has taken quite unprecedented forms, and now, of course, this bill responds to the fact that Finland has been left — at least I would say — in a surprisingly large number to set up a caliphate. After all, the Caliphate was not internationally recognized in any way, but the leadership of the Caliphate declared war against the West, and when Finland also belongs to the West, then the Caliphate was, as it were, at war with Finland. So I think it is very justified that those who have contributed in any way to the work of the caliphate, to support it or, as part of this caliphate's activities, to commit such acts as crimes, crimes against humanity, should, of course, now try hard to condemn what international agreements and even local legislation in the region say about these matters. It is also very important that, with these legislative initiatives, Finland's legislation can now be amended so that what is not acceptable in Finland is indeed explicitly written open: it is unacceptable to participate in such international terrorism in any way. It must be quite clear, there must be clear and sufficiently severe penalties and, indeed, this possibility of losing Finnish citizenship. So in this respect, Mr Kauma and Mr Vestman have done a good job with their initiatives. I hope that, in this House as united as possible, this issue can now proceed as quickly as possible to legislation, either in that committee, with reports being produced on the basis of legislative initiatives, or in that country's government taking this issue seriously. It is important that, at least in this debate, Parliament has seemed very united.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u96	Mr President! Indeed a year ago, the previous government, under the leadership of the then Minister for the Interior, Mr Mykkänen, took a number of steps to combat sexual and migrant crime. Unfortunately, this Ulrik programme has now been put in a box by the Marin government, apparently because these excellent measures have not been taken forward. I would now like to highlight two of these, which are also included in the programme on combating terrorism, which was published this week by the Assembly. First of all, for those who have not been granted a residence permit in Finland, a sentence should lead to expulsion before returning to Finland. In other words, the law should be amended so that the expulsion decision can also apply to a person abroad without returning to Finland for consultation. Secondly, Finland should introduce a border procedure in which, where appropriate, an application for international protection can be processed and resolved in or near the border zone without allowing a person to enter the country during the procedure. This change would prevent and impede the use of the asylum system for the terrorist purposes of persons as a channel for infiltration. This is indeed a programme of action for the previous government, which we are now pushing the Marin government to take forward in the meeting. That is where Mr Mäkelä pointed out that what measures were taken by the previous government. In my own speech, I also raised the fact that travelling for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence was indeed criminalised, was added to the Criminal Code in 2016, and in 2018 necessary amendments were still made to this article. Similarly, in April 2019, a change was made to the Citizenship Act to allow a person who has committed a serious treason, treason or terrorist offence against Finland’s vital interests to lose his citizenship. These are the measures already taken by the previous government to combat terrorism, and now this work must definitely be continued by the current government. I would also like to say that, when the representatives of the Finns of Peru brought up the need to tighten up the demands for citizenship, I agree exactly. In addition to the need for demands on language skills, tests are needed to take on the core values of Finnish society, and in addition, only such time should be calculated as the basis for obtaining citizenship,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u97	Mr President! This week, the Coalition Party presented seven concrete measures to tighten up the legislation on terrorism, and when information about our briefing became known, the Marin government held its own press conference, and what did they do? They told me they were setting up a task force. Now it seems that these acts of terrorism law, which Mr Vestman referred to above, have been put in a drawer by this current government, and now they are not moving forward, and I have to ask — or I would ask if there were a representative of the centre or of the rest of the government here — why the centre is no longer making progress in this period, but is content with the Greens not making progress with these stricter legislation. Mr Vestman pointed out the tightening measures taken last season. Some of them were made, including this travel for terrorist purposes or to these regions, but now we still have the problem of not being able to use this legislation, for example for those in al-Holi prison camps, because they have travelled to these areas before the law comes into force, and that is why, as our chairman Petteri Orpo said yesterday, legislation should be adopted when it is calm and not when there is a storm, and that is why we now want to tighten these laws. Mr Kauma and Mr Vestman have made two concrete proposals. The criminalisation of belonging to a terrorist organisation was already on the agenda last season. At that time, it must have come up against the fact that it was difficult to define it, and we have in the meeting completed this situation for the use of the Marin government, and the proposal would be based on making an updated list of these terrorist organisations to which travel or accession or support for their activities would result in this measure being proposed in the legislative initiatives of Kauman and Vestman. On the other hand, the loss of citizenship as a single measure would be quite justified in situations where a person has dual citizenship. Mr President! One thing that should also be taken seriously in Finland is the introduction of a system of security detention. I myself have put forward a proposal to the government, and it is also included in the programme of measures under the seven paragraphs of the Coalition Party. Its aim would be precisely in this type of crime, but also in the case of school killings and this type of crime, to ensure that people would not have to be released in those situations when sentenced to a day-to-day sentence but not a life sentence.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u98	Mr President! As far as these terrorist laws are concerned, it is a question of the safety of all of us Finns, and in that sense I really regret that there are no representatives of the government parties here. I hope that does not mean that they are not sufficiently interested in the safety of Finns. Mr Kiuru, you asked where the 390 people who had been included in the explanatory memorandum of the bill came from. This is directly from the data of the protection police, and it may well reflect Finnish society: we want to be transparent and transparent in our information, including when it comes to people who threaten the safety of Finns. Mr Mäkelä, you spoke about international agreements and that in Finland we tend to argue that some legal reform cannot be done because international agreements prevent something or other. I personally think, perhaps a little along the same lines with you, that it is strange in some way that, while Norway, Denmark, France and other EU countries are in the same international agreements and human rights treaties as we are, how are they able to carry out these legislative reforms, but we are not. The same applies to this requirement of precision and precision, i.e. if these threshold issues have been overcome in those other countries, why not in us? Then one question is also this problem of post-dismissiveness, which is what we Finns have in them. In other words, Mr Heinonen has just raised this amendment of the law, which was made during the last period, which criminalised travel to the ISIS region for terrorist purposes, and came into force in 2016. But there are two problems, which is why the interpretation of the law cannot be sufficiently implemented in the case of persons: firstly, that many of them had already travelled there before the entry into force of this law and, secondly, how to prove that it is a terrorist purpose. In that sense, prior criminalisation of travel to the war zone would be very important. Now that Isis is perhaps going to make a new caliphate somewhere else and we see where it will be formed, then there will be a very precise indication of the geographical area to which travel can be criminalized, so that even in that respect it becomes clear that whoever goes there knows what is going on, and it will then be punishable. I believe that we in Finland have, overall, been too naive in our legislation. It may well reflect the thinking of our criminal law anyway. We are very careful about drafting the law in order to tighten the penalty scale.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u99	Mr President! Mr Kauma gave a good speech. Surely there is still reason to add something that leaves no one with the wrong impression: when you said that travelling from Finland to the war zone must be criminalised — I agree exactly. It is certainly worth pointing out in this context that there are some people who should continue to travel there – crisis management tasks, workers from the various organisations representing Finland, and so on. I'm sure this was the spirit of your idea, too. Of these human rights. It's very easy to say that okay, we're now bringing in this kind of boom line, but in fact, it's like soft politics. These people who travel for terrorist purposes are trampling on human rights. They are people who are prepared to use violence in their own reference group in terrorist organisations that transcends all the existing limits of the imagination of Western man. There is slavery, there is absolute exploitation of women, not to mention freedom of assembly, freedom of speech, things of this kind. But only slavery: one might think that slavery is something that has fallen into history in the 1860s since the US Civil War and later on in some
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u100	Mr President! Several representatives have raised the issue of retroactivity. It is true that travel for terrorist purposes was only criminalised after the majority of those who have left the conflict areas in Syria and Iraq had already entered the region. It is quite true that this is a problem in terms of retroactiveness, that is to say, this penal code of criminal law cannot apply to these persons, but that is precisely why, in Mr Kauma's bill of law, we propose that, also in the case of a person involved in the activities of a terrorist organisation who has been convicted on the basis of this penal provision which we propose to add to the penal code, this sentence would lead to the loss of citizenship for dual citizens. This would now help to address this problem of the ban on retroactiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u101	Mr President! A few more comments on these points. This issue of these international agreements and their binding nature, as an example of this al-Hol camp case: When a whole group of lawyers took a stand in public that Finland had an obligation to help adults, but then the Chancellor of Justice took the view that there was no such obligation, and the Nordic countries applying the same agreements took the view that adults would not be helped, this situation is quite peculiar to the credibility of these lawyers. However, this does not seem to have harmed the credibility of these lawyers in any way, because these same people continue to run, if not every day so weekly, as experts in Parliament in the Committee on Legal Affairs, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to direct the legislative work in this country, which this Parliament elected by the people can regulate. Their interpretation of these international agreements and human rights treaties affects the work of Parliament more than many would like to imagine. More generally, if we talk about criminal policy, some crimes are punished on a penalty scale much more sharply than other crimes with the same penalty scale in principle, and the letter of the Aliens Act would allow for quite different interpretations of expulsion from the practice. A good example of this is this citizens' initiative for the expulsion of foreign sex offenders, which, if implemented, would have made the current legislation even less effective. The situation is perverse in that it is quite right for the citizen to be seen that expulsions do not work, that expulsions are sought to be tightened up, but that legislation is proposed which is less stringent than the current one. What makes this distinction between interpretation and legislation? It's not Parliament's fault. It's the lawyers' fault. What should be done about this is a more difficult question. People interpret these things, and I suspect that these interpretative people will continue to make it difficult to get these things right.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u102	Mr President! I stayed to consider that question by Mr Kiuru on whether anyone could then travel to that war zone, and certainly some exceptions would have to be made to this, including the humanitarian purpose and so on. It is then the financial side of the legislation in which it would be managed. I would also like to express my opinion that I agree with Mr Mäkelä and Mrs Halla-aho here earlier, that I too believe that the grounds for citizenship should be viewed more critically than has been seen today. There is certainly room for blackmail in terms of how long people stay here in Finland and how well they know the language, for example. According to various studies, it is precisely that knowledge of the language that has been quite a threshold question for many people. In addition, I would also like to point out one thing from the list of seven paragraphs in the Assembly, and that is that, in the case of persons who have been on residence in Finland without nationality, the sentence of participation in terrorism abroad must lead to expulsion before returning to Finland and that the law should be changed in such a way that the expulsion decision could also apply to a person abroad without even returning to Finland for the duration of the proceedings. In my opinion, this would be a matter which should also be taken into consideration in the Justice Minister's working group. Finally, I would like to say that, of course, in the case of terrorist offences, it is essential to prevent them, and it is also a very important part of why these legislative initiatives have been taken, but at the same time there is also a need for cooperation between the authorities. For example, the transmission of biometric identifiers to different authorities in other countries and the transmission of passenger lists and such issues are very important work. Like the way the evidence is collected on the ground in the Caliphate area and where the fighters have already left. Collecting evidence will be a big issue when these people are ultimately brought to justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u103	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-27-ps-14.u104	Mr President! Indeed, I am in favour of both of these legislative initiatives and I really hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights will now deal with them properly, because the need for a change of legislation is absolutely essential, as has already been heard here. When the debate took place, I believe that Parliament was quite united about the need for these legislative changes, so let us hope that the committee will move the matter forward quickly.
