ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box — where most of them are already — and then I would ask the representatives who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u2	Congressman Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u3	Mr President! As a result of the corona virus epidemic, the need for protective equipment increased several times as much as before. However, the acquisition of respiratory protection became a full farce in which EUR 10 million of taxpayers’ money was wasted by buying wolf and second. This was done despite the fact that several reliable domestic operators had offered their assistance. Outwardly the picture was that it didn’t matter what you buy, as long as you buy quickly and with great money. Unfortunately, the result was predictable: it went wrong and it went badly. I ask Mr Haatainen: what did you know about the planned masking and how did you monitor its progress, and has the Centre for Security of Supply been invited to use procurement channels other than those in general use?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u4	Mr President! I have been monitoring the operations of the Emergency Supply Agency and I was aware that it started to respond to STM's requests by acquiring protective equipment in a situation where there were not enough of them in sight in the country. These requests were first made by STM on 12 February, and the next time came in March. At the time when the STM's request was considerable, the resources of the Security of Supply Centre were also strengthened because they themselves asked for a resource increase in order to cope with these procurements. With regard to these transactions, which have now been made, where there have been ambiguities and where there have been omissions and overstepping the rules governing these procurement decisions, I have obviously not had any information until the day I read in the article in Suomen Kuvalehti that there are ambiguities. This was a shock to me, and I'm sure it was for a lot of other people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u5	I am told that the issues of all parties are related to this issue of interest rate today, so I would ask those representatives who wish to ask supplementary questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u6	Mr President! The sitting government has a record number of secretaries and special assistants at its disposal. In addition to the Secretary of State, the Minister of Labour alone has three special political assistants. The authorities have been taught to act in such a way that the political leaders take decisions and the authorities implement the decisions taken and do not solo. Normally the manager answers, but now the political leadership has blamed the failure of crisis management when the Security of Supply Centre, when municipalities, when Finavia. A responsible body for problems caused by lack of leadership has always been found elsewhere than within the government. I will continue to ask Mr Haatainen: do you take responsibility for the careless use of taxpayers' money and during the crisis the responsibility for the organisation and supervision of the procurement of protective equipment has shone away? Do you think that you have acted carefully, and if you are not, are you prepared to resign? And I repeat the question:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u7	Mr President! The role of the Minister with regard to the operation of this Security of Supply Centre is linked to the fact that the Ministry directs and also ensures that these processes and everything are properly organised there. The Security of Supply Centre is a very independent organisation. It is an institution with its own board of directors, and this government will issue codes of conduct and ensure that its activities are correct. There is also an operational management that is responsible for, among other things, these procurements. There has been this carelessness and error. As a minister, I have taken immediate steps to find out. I have not begun to protect anyone, but have demanded clarification of what has happened. As a result of all this, the Managing Director of the Security of Supply Agency resigned, and in his place I have appointed an interim CEO until the new CEO is elected.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u8	Mr President! The issue of security of supply has been very much discussed in recent weeks. It turns out that Finnish preparedness and preparedness are quite a bubble. Finland cannot sow its fields or harvest its crops without labour from abroad. Finland is dependent on Chinese producers and long supply chains for protective equipment. What security of supply is there for us to be completely at the mercy of external factors that are independent of us? I would like to ask the Prime Minister what lessons we are going to learn from the corona crisis so that we do not have to fight about these same issues when something happens next which is not in our own hands. - We're It is very good that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has accelerated the start of domestic production of face masks. However, private operators cannot be obliged to maintain their readiness. That is why I ask: should the state itself, for example, within the framework of the IGC?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u10	In this connection, Prime Minister Marin can also answer the previous question when I forgot to give him a turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u11	Mr President! Mr Halla-aho, you are right that lessons really need to be learned from this crisis. Every point must now be noted, raised up and later, both to correct legislation and to improve preparedness for future crises, whether they are epidemic-like crises or other possible crises. We must learn lessons in order to be even more prepared in the future, and the lessons to be learned from this crisis have also been the previous preparations that have been made. Of course, we will never get to the perfect situation, but it is our job to learn and always strive for better. With regard to the question of whether, for example, the Security of Supply Centre should have lines for the manufacture of protective equipment and such capacity, this is certainly one of the things that needs careful consideration. We live in a globalised world and have seen how vulnerable these production chains can be. That is why it is also important that, in the event of a crisis, it is possible, by means of domestic production, to start production very quickly, and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has done a great deal of work here to ensure that now, for example, we get this very material preparation to a better level, that if there were another wave, even if there was a second wave in China, then we would have domestic production here and we would no longer be so dependent on the international production chains on which we have now been dependent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u12	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u13	Mr President! I think we all share one wish that the Midsummer could be spent in a place of its own without fear and that, by then, working life would be moving towards normal, so that the concern about living would be relaxed and those in difficulty could be helped normally. This year, however, interest will not disappear from among us. However, we can learn to control it without such drastic closures if we are determined and smart. However, this wish can only be realised by setting clear plans and measurable targets. The very first point is the use of protective equipment. If you look ahead, it still seems that the Ministry will only be prepared for use in health care. This isn't real, is it? There must also be enough protective equipment for home care, including care for the elderly. Especially if restrictions are lifted, as is done this week, seniors must be better protected. The use of appropriate protective equipment may, in due course, also allow for the gradual opening of other services from schools. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u14	Mr President! Mr Mykkänen draws very important attention to this matter. We really must protect risk groups and senior citizens throughout the country. We have set up a group at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to study the level of protective equipment several times a week across the provinces, and this group also includes people from all areas of special responsibility. Thus we can also see and hear the situation of masks, protective equipment there locally. On this basis, as necessary, we are constantly adding protective equipment to the provinces, and it is now important that the medical districts to which these protective equipment is supplied from the Emergency Supply Agency should continue to be supplied not only to the municipalities but also to all private care institutions where the elderly are treated. This message has gone to the airport from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health quite clearly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u15	Mr President! In the large picture, good results have been achieved in corona play. Looking at statistics, it is seen that the number of infections is much lower than in neighbouring countries, and this indicates that the actions decided together by Parliament are being dismantled. That is an excellent thing. But we must remember that we are only at the beginning of this crisis, unfortunately, and that is why the gloves must not drop now, but we must continue to take decisive action. Yesterday the government stated that it was no longer legally possible to continue to close Uusimaa. The government noted that the restriction was useful but not necessary. Mr President! Since the restriction of Uusimaa has also been beneficial according to the government, it would have been very, very important to have replaced credible measures to bring about those effects. I would ask the Minister that, once we have been able to monitor the supply chains better in the rest of the country, they will no longer be identified in Uusimaa, so how will they be guaranteed in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u16	Mr President! The question is certainly on all our lips, in the sense that the situation is particularly serious in some provinces. In addition to Uusimaa, the incidence is in a clear runaway in certain other provinces. The fact remains that today, in relative terms, most of all new infections observed in the last seven days are in the West North. In the West Ostrobothnia Hospital District, this incidence has now been very high. Similarly, for Lapland and Kainuu, these figures are taking a clear lead in relation to other regions. In practice, for other provinces, 1.2, 1.3 are infected, for some there are already nearly 1 because of the low incidence. As regards Uusimaa, the scenario developed by THL as the lowest possible scenario will proceed,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u17	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u18	Mr President! It was definitely a good thing that the government made a decision to support companies also with direct corporate subsidies in the midst of the corona crisis. However, it is now the case that business subsidies directed through both Ely Centres and Business Finland are strongly targeted at development projects and not at the main problem facing many companies today, namely preventing the dwindling of cash funds. The time for development will come, but this is about keeping companies alive, what pays wages and rents when there is no sale. This is the case, for example, in the cafés and restaurants sector. Similarly, no matter how much we keep saying that ‘we’re getting over it’, we’re helping these entrepreneurs at this time. I would like to ask the minister concerned: do you think that aid to businesses is now targeted at the main problems, such as the dwindling of cash resources?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u19	Mr President! The questioner is absolutely right. It does not focus on the acute situation that is currently in place, but on the other hand, I would like to say that we think that we currently have 12% of the applications — thousands of applications in queue — on the business Finland side of 20%. But I agree exactly with the need that exists at the moment. Take, for example, a taxi driver who needs funding for an acute cash-flow situation, for very fixed costs. What are his prerequisites for innovative new activities?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u22	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you that this is not allowed while the plenary session is in progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u23	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u24	Mr President! Now that the coronavirus has been prepared for central hospitals, some of these hospitals are idle and the lines of surgery are growing. According to yesterday's figures, there were 49 corona infections in Kuopio, 86 in Turku and 97 in Tampere. These are really small quantities. Hospitals are idle, which means that the economic deficit and the queues for surgery are increasing. If Uusimaa had been held in custody, these hospitals could have continued almost normally. If we now want to keep these corona facilities in central hospitals, why, for example, can surgical patients not be transferred to the private side for a limited period of time, because these patients are also empty?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u25	Mr President! Mr Orpo and you too, Mr Harkimo, are calling for the restriction on Uusimaa to be continued. From the point of view of the STM, it was a necessary and useful action, and it was once absolutely necessary. Now that these criteria were sought, the STM’s initial assessment was that it would have gone until the Constitutional Committee promised that this restriction would come into force. But as you have also become aware, the legal assessment was so strict that, following the position of the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs, such a useful and necessary measure simply does not meet the requirement of necessity. And this is, of course, a difficult matter, because this country must respect the constitution of our country at all times, including in exceptional circumstances, and that is why we are between wood and bark. As far as this disembarkation of unsolicited surgery is concerned,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u26	Time's coming fast.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u27	Mr. Speaker! This legal assessment could have been brought back to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Think about it, all of you. Three weeks ago, when the matter was discussed in the Constitutional Committee, the infections in the capital region were 30.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u28	Mr President! Of course, the government must comply with Finnish law. The government must follow the line taken by the Constitutional Committee. And in its report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stressed that this restriction must be lifted as soon as the demand for necessity is no longer met. [Ville Tavio’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u31	Mr President! On the other day, Yle reported that two thirds of these corona deaths occurred in nursing homes. The National Institute for Health and Welfare has now issued new guidelines on testing, that those working in critical areas will be tested automatically, but then all others will be tested only on the basis of symptoms, which in itself is an extension. But I suggest that you now advise that all elderly people and all those moving to or moving to these nursing homes should be tested. In other words, people moving from the service units or moving from hospitals or home to nursing homes would be tested. And if positive test results were found, everyone would be placed in separate units. Because these corona deaths are prevented in nursing homes. What do you think of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u32	Mr President! That THL exit from yesterday is planned because last week the Government once again adopted a reinforced testing strategy, which now assumes that 10,000 samples per day must be made available using both public and private capacity. And as a result, THL has heard the field and concluded that now is the time to act. I have required in the test strategy that we in practice extend this possibility, as described by Mr Risko. And it is now the case that THL has worked as ordered, that the field is committed to the fact that, in this way, as Mr Risikko here hoped, and as we have required, it will work. It is a serious matter that these clients in nursing homes and also in home care may not receive a corona that may be passed on to these people who work there on a day-to-day basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u34	Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u35	Mr President, ärade talman! Det rådande virusläget i Finland visar att den linje som regeringen haft biter valdigt bra, kurvan hålls nere och siffrorna visar att våra älsovårdsursurser räcker till för att hatera epidemi. Här hör ett stort tag till folket, såväl un som gammal, som är beredda att följa de anvisningar som ges. Återgången till det normala vore viktigt till example inom scolvärlden. Det finns flera barn som mår dåligt av isoleringsåtgärder, och skolan specar en viktig roll i deras välmående.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u36	Mr President! Of course, the government, in cooperation with the THL, is constantly monitoring this disease situation and the progression of the epidemic and making decisions on the basis of it. Under the decisions currently in force, schools will remain closed and distance education will be provided until mid-May and, when we are closer to that date, of course, the situation will always be reassessed in the light of the information we have and then policies will be taken on that basis. The government has also set out, as the Prime Minister has pointed out, the Hetemäe-led exit strategy group, which also uses the models made by THL and STM for the progression of the epidemic, and on the basis of this information we can also begin to see when and how it could be possible to dismantle these restrictive measures in Finland. Without taking a position on the timetable, I certainly hope, as Minister for Education, that schools will be among the first measures to be taken, which will be gradually dismantled, both with regard to the safety of staff and pupils.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u37	Congressman Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u38	Mr President! The crown jewel of Finnish civilization, or our local library network, has had to be closed because of the corona. It causes many kinds of trouble for people. Many people who do not have their own Internet have done their business through library points, and now that online contact is recommended everywhere from Kela to the bank, there is no success at all for them. It is also pointless to say to them that you should rely on electronic library material. Exam books and other study materials rely entirely on libraries in many areas. The impact of books on people's well-being is well known. And during this time, when distance learning is recommended and national house arrest is all there is, books would be particularly important. Mr Kosonen, if the restaurant business can be allowed to sell out, why not have the same solution, a loan, operate in libraries even if the library facilities themselves have been closed down?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u39	Mr President! Good question from Congressman Kontula. This contributes to the importance of the library for all of us Finns. Reading books, library activities in general could be an important part of our mental resilience to crisis, and reading books is also very satisfying to our cultural needs. Health above these restrictions have been made, and their dismantling is also done with health above. The government has recommended the closure of libraries to prevent the spread of the virus, and the help has instructed library activities through this. At present, libraries serve in exceptional circumstances, for example through online services, e-services, and their own activities are also being developed in libraries. I would be happy to raise this issue in the government when we begin to consider the dismantling measures, and this will certainly also be raised in the exit group.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u40	Mr President! I would like to return to these acquisitions. The security reserves of the Security of Supply Centre secure energy supply, food economy, health care and defence-related production. The task is to maintain the material to be stored, not so much to acquire it. This is also stated in a separate public statement on the acquisition of KPMG’s protective equipment. We all understand that during such a crisis there is a great need for protective equipment. However, it is unclear why the Security of Supply Centre went to operate in a task that it does not have the skills to do, and which is not, in particular, part of its tasks on this scale. Minister Haatainen said that at the beginning STM has been the operator who ordered protective equipment through the Security of Supply Centre. I would like to ask Minister Pekos: what kind of guidance has been given for the initial procurement? And the answer to Mrs Huru's question: have you been instructed to use non-general procurement channels?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u41	Mr President! With regard to these protective equipment, this strategic guidance, authorisation and resource allocation falls within the remit of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and the preparation of social welfare and health care is managed, supervised and coordinated by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, in particular the preparedness unit of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. This material is based on both this field material and this material in the Security of Supply Centre. Our role in this, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, has been that we have not only compiled a situational picture of these materials from the field, but also made an inventory of the materials of the Emergency Supply Agency with regard to health care supplies and then made a request for the material to the Emergency Supply Centre on the basis of that request. We have announced from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health what material we need and how much we need it. After that, the Security of Supply Agency will handle the procurement of these. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u42	Mr President! Mr Östman mentioned the restaurant industry here — it was closed down by a decision of the government and parliament. In the context of such a drastic action, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered it necessary to provide for compensation for the losses caused by the ban. On the basis of this statement and the statements made by the Economic Committee, Parliament unanimously approved the statement: ‘The Parliament requires the Government to explain how reasonable compensation for damage caused by the income of restaurant entrepreneurs will be implemented and that the government should not delay its activities. “ Well, of course, this requires the unanimous will of Parliament to support the Government's support package for the restaurant sector, where its need is obvious. These Business Finland development aids are not enough at all. The administration will certainly be able to pay such subsidies even if necessary through the State Treasury. Now it has been said that there will be no support. So I ask the Prime Minister and the Minister for Economic Affairs: Ministers, are you going to stand by and watch the wave of restaurant bankruptcy and defy the unanimous will of Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u43	Mr President! The record of the compensation in the restaurant sector, which was stated in the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and which was approved by Parliament, has indeed been received by the Ministry and gone through and has led us to explore the possibilities of making this compensation possible. This work is carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. What is at stake here is that the restaurant industry is now also able to apply for existing subsidies through Business Finland, through the support of the Ely Centres, and now it is necessary to avoid the fact that many different channels do not overlap. The second point is that when considering these solutions, we must also see to it that they are firm as to how other sectors will experience this or what losses there may have been in other areas. We're going through all of this now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u44	Mr President! This corona epidemic particularly affects people on low incomes, and we have heard that the search for bread aid has multiplied. 1.2 million have been earmarked for this aid in the State budget for this year. When the application was opened at the turn of the month for seven days, there were 450 applicants. That means that when this money is then cut off for them, a few thousand euros will then be released per organisation. It would require an additional EUR 2 million, and I would like to ask the Minister: has this been taken into account in any of the crisis packages that have been envisaged? The help is absolutely necessary, the queues are getting longer, and there the need is greater than ever in the history of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u45	Mr President! There is already a next step in this reflection, and I am sure it will be done by the representative. Mr Laukkanen also asked if we could now take another step forward. It is important that we were able to get that food aid application in the first place, and, as we saw, in seven days, there were a record number of applications — of course, many people thought that why there was an open search for such a short period of time: because there is a crying shortage. It shows that in the next additional economic projections we will have to continue to seek help for those who are deprived, who depend on these food lines. In that respect, this is an important issue, and at least I myself have tried to take it in this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u46	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u47	Mr President! This broadcast will certainly be viewed by many people in the Corona Risk Group at home, and the government has rightly stressed responsibility and acting according to instructions from all of us in order to protect those in the risk group. Indeed, their well - being now needs to be cared for in many new ways. It has been a real pleasure to see how much caring for neighbors and neighbors has shown up all over Finland. Many organisations and volunteers have joined in, for example, supporting the elderly in trade matters. Mr President! There is a great deal of concern and fear, for example, as to whether to go to the store, whether to go to the pharmacy and get important medicines, or whether to pay the bills. Many people do not yet have access to e-services, and when it is said that mobility in public places, such as shopping centres, is at risk, these bills may remain.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u48	And Minister Kiuru — or is it a prize?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u49	Mr President! Mr Guzenina asked an extremely important question. I would like to remind you that all the restrictive measures that we have taken in the government and that we have decided together with Parliament are serious. We want to protect everyone in the risk groups, and that is why it is important to ensure that we maintain security distances, do not move in traffic, avoid movement and close contact. But it is necessary for more of us to visit the pharmacy, and then, of course, it is important that it is done safely, and you have to think, for example, about the times when you go to the pharmacy, that what is such a time when there is no traffic. Pharmacies in several localities have opened online services from which medicines can be ordered by way of delivery. Of course, the pharmacy can also require a friend, acquaintance or relative to pick up medicines, but the telephone service also has these medicines from pharmacies
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u50	And Minister Kiuru wants to continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u51	Mr President! We have also identified the danger that many older people, or at least over 70 years of age, for example, a functionally capable person is currently thinking about where to get the help. That is why Mr Guzenina's question is very topical that we should be able to use all the security measures that have now been created to protect people over 70. The Government's recommendation to impose quarantine conditions on people over 70 is, of course, a very tough move, but it is intended to protect people, and that is why we have instructed municipalities to be self-sufficient in this, to contact people over 70 and over 80 in their own region and to provide assistance. Within social and health care, staff have now been moved specifically to support shopping bags, various kinds of services, and assistance work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u52	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u53	Mr President! As has already been said, Yle said this week that up to two thirds of the deaths of corona have occurred in nursing homes in Finland. The situation in nursing homes has changed quite rapidly. The first death caused by the corona came out about two weeks ago. Now corona infections have been detected in nursing homes around Finland. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has instructed the elderly and others at risk about preparing for corona several times. Some nursing homes have reported, and now it has become apparent that there has been a shortage of protective equipment, among other things, in staff adequacy and competence, as well as in cleaning and hygiene. I will ask the minister responsible how the government ensures and supervises that nursing homes follow the instructions of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and that they have the necessary resources to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u54	Mr President! Yes, this question is very relevant at this time, and I can tell you that I think about this almost at some point. It is a very big matter in which we now make the field commit that these guidelines are also intended to be followed. This is a very serious question. In Parliament, too, this issue has been discussed here together, and I believe that the whole of Parliament is very committed to the fact that it is absolutely necessary to follow those guidelines. Otherwise, the outcome will be something that none of us want. In this respect, it is imperative that the organisers comply with these guidelines. I need you to be on top of the tip-top. We have Valvira and local help now on a really hard watch in the field, and there have been omissions. You have seen some of these iceberg peaks, and that should not be possible in Finland. In this respect, it is very serious
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u55	Mr President! A week ago, Prime Minister Marin said that Finland has been able to work together with an exceptional degree of unity. For example, the introduction of the Emergency Act was negotiated among all parties. However, the closure of Uusimaa was unilaterally removed. The government just informed the other parliamentary parties. Parliament has also been informed that only the necessary legislative proposals for dealing with the crisis are being taken forward. However, a proposal has been brought to us that would force the housing companies to acquire charging points for electric cars, and the Ministry is preparing to convert personal identity codes into gender-neutrals. This sounds like politics, because at the same time the opposition has been called upon to provide almost unconditional support to the government. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether we will focus on the future management of the corona crisis together or separately, and whether the government will withdraw politically colored proposals and focus on:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u57	Mr President! Of course, the government has sought to cooperate as widely as possible with all the parliamentary parties, including the opposition parties, because we are all in the midst of this crisis together, and I thank the parliamentary parties for being able to cooperate in the midst of this crisis. As far as this dismantling of the closure of Uusimaa is concerned, of course, this is the basis for government action, one of the main elements, the unanimous report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in which it has required the government to dismantle this measure if this condition of necessity is no longer met. In this context, it has been the duty of the government to do exactly what we have been asked to do, and it is up to the government to adopt this dismantling regulation at the time, and that is what we have done. As far as these other legislative proposals are concerned, I have discussed this matter with the President of Parliament, Mr Vanhanen, and we share the view that it would not bring matters before Parliament that might raise the issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u58	Mr President! This dismantling and legal obligation of Uusimaa. After all, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs always deals with what the government is seeking and how it justifies it. The Government has announced that it will seek to increase the capacity for intensive care and strengthen the capacity of the health care system elsewhere in Finland, and for that purpose this necessity criterion was established in a previous evaluation. If the government were to pursue any other goal, the suppression of the disease or other, then the assessment of necessity would be different.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u61	Mr President! Yes, the field has been made clear where the limits of the mandate given by Parliament go, and, as you know, in the case of urgent care, those entries were further clarified when this implementing regulation was being re-examined here and today in the Chamber as well. In this respect, the government of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is quite literally trying to comply with that will of the Constitutional Committee, and it is not appropriate to deviate from it on the ground. Every day we have a practical field meeting at 12 noon, every weekday, and all the latest information will be delivered immediately. You refer to the unsolicited, elective activity, which is what Mr Harkimo also asked about. It is quite clear that I am already, at the moment, deeply saddened by the number of people who may be missing urgent surgery at the moment. Why has this been appropriate? It is precisely because we have to take the operating rooms now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u62	Honourable Members and Ministers, I know that this is difficult, but let us try to stay within that minute and as many people as possible will be able to get out loud.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u63	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u64	Mr President! Koronapandemia is a global crisis that can ultimately only be resolved through effective international cooperation. US President Trump has announced that his country will withdraw its funding from the World Health Organization (WHO). The decision is shortsighted and irresponsible. International cooperation to combat and prevent the spread of diseases coordinated by the WHO
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u67	Mr President! We need multilateral international cooperation, because, for example, pandemics do not know the borders of countries, but sweep the world without regard for borders. That is why, of course, we need cooperation, and that is why Finland has decided to increase its contribution to the WHO to EUR 5.5 million from now on. So today, at the government sitting, at the Government sitting, we have decided on this, and tomorrow there will be a decision to do so, so we could make a supplementary proposal to the amending budget now under discussion, which will then be able to direct this money quickly to the WHO. Of course, we have both the EU's social and health ministers and the EU's foreign ministers dealing with this issue and it is vital that all the countries of the world make a strong commitment to multilateral international cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u68	Mr President! Just today there was a meeting chaired by the German and French Foreign Ministers, where friends of multilateralism also discussed this increase in WHO funding, and it seems that very many European countries are now taking decisions similar to those of Finland, which the Prime Minister referred to, to increase WHO funding for this year. A great many European speeches have already highlighted the fact that the corona epidemic has not been overcome until it has been defeated in the poorest countries of the world before it has been defeated in Africa, which will then not be the second wave or the third wave or the fourth wave here, and it will require the WHO and the UN. Now many of the poorest countries are in a situation where, if there is a health crisis and the subsequent economic crisis, there will be an administrative crisis, regimes may collapse and it will be increasingly difficult to deal with these health issues. That is also why it is very important to support the UN in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u69	Mr President! I will return to this matter of protection. In the beginning, you, the government and your officials, assured us that the shields will be sufficient — the shields will be sufficient. They haven't been enough. I keep getting messages from concerned nurses, elderly people and their relatives: there are no shelters, even though, for example, Kirsi Varhila, Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, Mr President! Older people are the highest risk group and there are also those at risk among carers. Mr Pekonen, how can nurses be given work orders if there is not enough protection against infectious disease? After all, the employer has an occupational safety and health obligation,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u70	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to say that we, Finland, have had a good international comparison of material preparation. We are prepared for this pandemic in accordance with our existing pandemic plan, and we have taken into account the level of protective material in this field of preparedness and, combined, of course, the level of protective material in the Supply Security Centre. However, it is quite clear that during such a pandemic, stocks of the Emergency Supply Agency need to be constantly updated, and we started this preparation for these protective materials, completing the Security of Supply Centre already in February. And, as I said, it has been difficult to get these protective equipment on the market in February-March, but now, fortunately, the market is open and we are able to replenish stocks, as has happened this week. We really do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u71	Mr President! On 27 February, I notified the Prime Minister of the preparedness for the epidemic and said: ‘Material preparednessfor other protective equipment and, although additional equipment is needed,the situation is better than in many European countries. “ And here it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u74	Mr President! The Director General of THL Markku Tarvahauta recommended the use of facial masks when moving in public places. The Director-General justified his view that those infected also spread the disease asymptomatic. Thus, by using masks, infected people could protect fellow humans from new infections. Now, on the contrary, other authorities have given instructions to the contrary that masks should not be used. Would it be time for the government to catch up on this and the problem and find out how citizens can now contribute to preventing the spread of this disease: do they use masks on the streets and in shops or do they walk without masks? I am sure that citizens will be happy to take part in these efforts and cooperate, but clear guidelines are needed. What is the government’s line on this issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u75	Mr President! As Mr Kopra said, there is a disagreement among experts as to whether healthy people should wear masks in their everyday lives. At present, however, THL, WHO and the European Agency for Diseases have not recommended asymptomatic individuals to wear these masks, nor has the government or the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health issued such a recommendation. But the health authorities, as well as the government and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, are constantly following this situation closely, and if there is any new evidence or information, we can of course also change our recommendations. However, we base our activities on the official guidelines of these expert organisations. However, I would like to point out that we also do not ban wearing masks, but we have not made a formal recommendation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u76	Finally, Mr Huru, who raised the subject today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u77	Mr President! In order to make the supply chains of protective equipment work and avoid similar problems in the future, it is important for the government to take the lead in procurement processes. Instead of making their own mistakes, it is better to deal only with the partners that have been found reliable and check the goods before they fly to Finland. Many Finnish companies operate in China and have already offered their help in past procurements, but it was not seized. Since Mr Pekonen was unable to reply, for the third time I would like to ask Mr Haatainen: has the Centre for Security of Supply been asked to use procurement channels other than those in general use?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-54.u78	Mr President! Once again: Ministers do not interfere in procurement methods. The Security of Supply Centre acts as an independent institution. They operate there in accordance with the instructions given by the Board of the Security of Supply Agency and use those channels which, according to their own professional skills, are considered to be the best, and that operational activity is not interfered with by ministers. On the other hand, the Ministry has provided support for procurement activities, i.e. resources, man-years, to enable them to cope better with that task. Nevertheless, these negligences have occurred there, and the two trades in which there are ambiguities are now under detailed investigation at the Security of Supply Centre.
