ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u1	About today's work, a few things. By way of derogation from what was read in advance in the order of the day, we will be taking a break from these two regulations after a total of 1.5 hours of discussion. Then a new session will begin, where the report of the Administrative Committee, which is likely to require a vote, will be discussed first, and then we will return to other matters of the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u3	Mr President! This Government Decree on temporary derogations for the application of certain provisions of the annual holiday law, the Working Time Act and the Employment Contracts Act is in line with the previous Implementing Regulation of 17 March. As the virus epidemic spreads, it is likely that an increased shortage of labour will arise for the employer as the demand for services increases due to increased public illness and, on the other hand, the various mild phenomena and other effects associated with the epidemic. Moreover, labour shortages may increase as a result of the illness of the staff employed in the activities concerned. The lack of labour makes the operation of these socially critical services significantly more difficult. This Regulation is intended to contribute to ensuring an adequate number of staff available to the employer during the virus epidemic. The National Institute for Health and Welfare has estimated that the epidemic is spreading rapidly and that the number of cases will not reach a peak during the current regulations. Therefore, there are still strong grounds for the use of the powers of the Act of Preparedness and the possibility of derogations. Due to the evolution of the epidemic, the need for the proposed regulation is rather growing in the spring. The Regulation allows for derogations from certain provisions of the annual holiday law, the Working Time Act and the Employment Contracts Act. Exceptions may be applied to health care and social services, rescue services, emergency centre operations and police services throughout the national territory. This Regulation would allow for a derogation from the annual leave provisions of the annual leave law, the date of the annual leave, its transfer or suspension. The employer may notify the date of the annual leave within a shorter notice period than provided for in the law. The employer may determine the date of annual leave by way of derogation from the time limits laid down by law. The employer may postpone the annual leave already announced or suspend the annual leave already initiated. Such measures shall be necessary in view of the exceptional work arrangements resulting from the corona virus epidemic and shall not jeopardise the safety and health of staff. Transferred leave shall be given as soon as possible. Similarly, the regulation would allow derogations from the provisions of the working time law on overtime, maximum working time and rest periods. The employee’s consent is not required in order to work overtime. The amount of work to be carried out may exceed the maximum amount laid down in the Working Time Act. Deviations from daily and weekly rest may be allowed. The use of derogation powers is only allowed when the flexibility available under the law is insufficient and is necessary to safeguard the operation. The condition is that the employer organises break and rest facilities, social facilities and catering facilities suitable for the use, rest and recreation of employees. The measures shall not jeopardise safety at work or the health of the worker. There is also a need to ensure a smooth distribution and recovery of the burden on workers. The regulation would also provide for an extension of the period of notice for the worker to four months. However, the period of notice cannot be extended in a police action. The extension of the period of notice is subject to the condition that it is necessary for the health, minimum income or safety of the population. The Regulation would also limit the application of the collective agreement provisions on matters referred to under Article 30 of the Annual Holidays Act and Article 34 of the Working Time Act. With the exception of a minor clarification, the proposed regulation corresponds to a previous regulation adopted by the Government, the constitutionality of which has already been assessed by the Constitutional Committee. Since the adoption of the previous implementing regulation, the virus epidemic has become more serious and there are more serious grounds for adopting the implementing regulation. Thus, the adoption of the proposed Regulation is not considered to be a constitutional legal obstacle. The starting point for regulation is that, despite the possibilities provided by the implementing regulation, the employer should use the means of organising work to ensure that the exceptions to existing legislation are kept to a minimum. The use of derogations should therefore be limited to situations where the possibilities for action contained in the Working Time Act and the Annual Holidays Act are not met. However, this assessment must take into account the difficult predictability of the epidemic and its impact on the needs of the labour force in the workplace. A single infection of personnel can result in a large number of personnel being quarantined and a shortage of personnel may arise in critical operations operating units very suddenly and unforeseeably. According to Article 4 of the Act on Preparedness, the powers of the law can only be exercised in ways which are necessary to achieve the purpose of the Act and in proportion to the objective pursued by the exercise of the power to act. The regulation adopted today on 6.4. is a regulation extending the implementing regulation and is valid for the period from 14 April to 13 May20.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u4	Mr President! There is a proposal for a Government Regulation on temporary derogations for the application of certain provisions of the annual holiday law, the Working Time Act and the Employment Contracts Act. This applies to workers in health care, social services, rescue services, emergency services and police activities. This Regulation relates to Finland’s state of emergency and preparedness laws. The regulation will contribute to ensuring an adequate number of employees for the employer during the vi-rus epidemic. If necessary, the employer could suspend or postpone the employee's leave, derogate from the obligation to obtain the employee's consent to work overtime and derogate from the rest period provisions and extend the period of notice imposed on the worker if the employer is threatened by a shortage of labour due to a virus epidemic. This Regulation is necessary in this context of epidemics, taking into account the growing need for staff in social and health care. At the same time, we must also take care of the protection of workers, health and safety at work, and I would like to raise a few points about this. We have a universally dangerous infectious disease in question, and according to the Act on Contagion, the employer in the work unit is obliged to provide appropriate protection not only for patients and customers but also for staff. It also provides sufficient guidance. In recent days and weeks, Finland has had very confusing instructions from the Ministry and THL. The guidelines have been contradictory and the field has not known what guidance should be followed. Last week, STM introduced new guidelines for home care to protect people at risk, but there has not been sufficient equipment for home care. The same problem is with 24-hour care: even if instructions are given, then there are no protective equipment to wear. There should also be clear consistency here, that we will then follow up on how the equipment goes to these places, and if there is not enough, then the instructions will be made accordingly, taking into account, however, that there can be no compromise on the safety of the staff. Super, Tehy, the Medical Association, the Association of Young Doctors and certainly many other trade unions have drawn attention to this issue, but this is a real concern at the moment in the field. Since we are now also exercising these powers under the preparedness regulation to assign workers to work, it is of paramount importance, and the assumption is that health and safety at work will also be adequately taken care of. Security of supply stocks have been opened, but there are currently no equipment in the field. They are very scattered: they are not known where they are and there are shortcomings everywhere. Hopefully there will be clearer instructions from the Ministry on how the equipment will be distributed, where it can be ordered and available, and how the staff should be protected. The employer's statutory obligations on health and safety at work and the necessary tools also apply to the time of the corona epidemic, and this should be borne in mind by both employees and political decision-makers and employers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u5	Mr President! This Government Regulation applies to personnel working in health care and social services, rescue services, emergency services and police services. The purpose of the Regulation is to apply temporary derogations from certain provisions relating to the annual leave Act, the Working Time Act and the Employment Contracts Act. In other words, on the basis of this Regulation, the employer may derogate from the provisions relating to the notification of the annual leave and the date on which the annual leave is to be given, postpone the annual leave which has already been initiated and make the employee work overtime without his consent, derogate from the provisions on daily rest and weekly rest, and also from the provisions on the maximum working time of Article 18 of the Working Time Act. In addition, if the employee resigns, the employer may extend the period of notice to four months without prejudice to the collective agreement provisions of Section 3 of Chapter 6 of the Employment Contracts Act. So this is a package of this regulation. Mr President! I would now like to highlight the situation in the healthcare sector and the care providers. We have a real disaster and chaos in that field of health. It's a message from the nurses. Nurses have experienced that they are unable to get to the tests, even though THL says on its website that social welfare and health care personnel are being tested. There are messages that the employer has reported that later, if symptoms increase or there are more symptoms, then for the test, as well as for the fact that if the health care person’s next of kin, living in the same household, has been ill, such as a child, then has not been tested. So the nurse goes to work every day without knowing if there is a corona infection in the family, possibly also an infection. This is a huge risk. This is dangerous, and I would ask: why on earth do we need those in the healthcare field, the medical staff, not to test them more? Mr President! It has now also become clear that, when we have this obligation to work under the Emergency Act and health care professionals aged 18 to 68, including those who have already retired, may be available at the workplace, so now this age of 68 has become a lot of questions, that these elderly nurses are in fact at risk and how they could be obliged to the site. I would like to ask how these have now been achieved in the field of health care. Have you noticed — since there is a shortage of staff — that more workers would have been there, have people voluntarily registered there, so to speak? The problem is not only that the medical staff are unable to get to the tests, but also that there are no protective equipment. Missing face masks, missing protective gear. This is the message that keeps coming. During this weekend, there were some very worrying reports that the virus has already reached nursing homes. One of the reasons certainly is that there are no such protective equipment. I would ask: What is the way in which we can make the nursing workers in society survive if (1) they do not get to the tests, (2) there are no protective equipment? In a way, they are in the mouth of death and in a place of danger every time they go to work. Then, while we now have such a regulation, which differs from the annual holiday law, the working time law, dismissals, in what way will the workers receive this? I would like to ask you whether these practices of overtime, weekly rest and day-to-day rest have been different so far and what are the moods in the field. How tired medical staff do we actually have there? Mr President! Then there are these protective equipment that are vital. They are vital for us to be able to protect ourselves as well as those patients who are being treated there in the field of nursing. For this security of supply: we have a security of supply centre, which is responsible for ensuring that goods are stored in the security of supply warehouse. Now I feel that this stuff has not been there in the first place, if the stocks have already been opened and millions of protective equipment have left it all over Finland, so to speak, and they are already running out. This morning. In fact, it was said in HUS that the consumption levels of protective equipment are not reported, not even a need assessment can be made as to how much they might be. The sum summarum: all the measures we are now doing here, for example, in relation to annual leave, working hours and dismissals, they break down like sand castles, because they are in a sense of no use if the nurses are already exhausted and are not working. I have also been contacted by people who say they want to resign. They won't go to work if you don't have protective equipment and you don't listen to that nurse. He's expected to go to work, but he won't be able to run any tests. There's no protective equipment. There are huge contradictions here. How do you answer these questions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u6	Mr President! Now we are dealing with a matter and a regulation on the ability of an employee to cope in such an exceptional situation, temporarily amending the regulations and laws that have been created to cope with it. When we deal with the working conditions of self-employed jobs such as nurses, local nurses and police officers in such a crisis situation, we should pay particular attention to the day-and-week rest now in the proposal for a regulation. Restrictions on day-to-day and weekly rest should be a necessary and last resort for securing these resources. I would have been willing to know whether it was primarily directed to use additional recruitment and possible purchase services, for example in the medical and health sectors, before going to that day-by-day rest and intervention. Now, however, we are dealing with people and bodies working in the front line, who, however, bear the burden in a completely different way, each individual. Even a normal everyday life in such demanding tasks can be challenging and stressful, let alone in the situation where we are at the moment. In addition, employees themselves may belong to risk groups, as Mr Juvonen's comments already took into account the adequacy of all kinds of protection and other equipment and other things that give rise to additional concern and additional pressure to cope with its task. There has already been a message from the nurse and nearby nurse that there is fear, anxiety and uncertainty, including uncertainty as to how the nursing staff will be satisfied, how to cope at all and how to cope with their own loved ones. How is it going, then, when the peak of the epidemic is on top of us? Another good question, in my view, is that, when we now exercise such powers under the powers of exception, how do we report and monitor these, whether there has been any thought of doing so, that we should now have a little follow-up on how our system works, and whether there has been such a practical idea in the ministries, so that we can know that these are not being misused? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u7	Mr President! This Government decree is obviously necessary, in fact more necessary than the previous one. In other words, we are approaching the epidemic peak, and it is likely that these capacities under the Emergency Act will have to be widely used. However, there is a great deal of concern about this, for example in the field of health care. At least I myself have received a lot of contact from health care workers at risk who have been asking questions. For example, a nurse at risk contacted and told that she was going to be assigned to intensive care there to treat corona patients. In other words, in what way does the government advise that health care workers at risk should not be unnecessarily exposed to such risks? We know that, with age, the risks increase, with certain diseases, the risks to serious forms of corona disease increase, and especially those of men, and as many as 70% of patients in intensive care are men. At some point it has been estimated that it might be because of smoking, but now it seems that tobacco does not explain the matter, but that it is just because of the biological differences between man and woman, which explains that women have a better defense against corona. We should therefore protect older men, especially at risk, in these critical professions. There has also been a debate about whether those people who now have to do this dangerous work specifically with corona patients should not pay for more of this dangerous work. I personally think it would be fair, and I ask the Minister: has this been considered? Of course, the Minister does not decide on wage increases, we know that, but he could well initiate and direct this debate. Here the colleagues have made good speeches on protective equipment which are now particularly necessary for those who work with these corona patients in particular, and the fact is that we still have a large shortage of protective equipment, especially in the private sector, social services, care for the elderly and the mentally disabled. Today, the Executive Director of the Medical Union, Kati Myllymäki, raised this problem, which is constantly giving a lot of feedback, saying: ‘The State Councils and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health have reported that the Centre’s warehouse is open. Therefore, questions arise as to whether protective equipment actually goes to users in large hospital districts and hospitals.” The reality is that there is still a shortage of them. Equally, protective equipment is also needed to protect workers there in the private sector and in care facilities for the elderly and the mentally disabled. I hope the Minister will have the opportunity to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u8	Mr President! Employees in critical sectors of society have been under heavy pressure for several weeks. They deserve all thanks for their efforts now, but also after this critical time. The value of this work they do must not be forgotten even when the ark returns to normal. It is good that we are now talking about the survival of the workers in these sectors, but it should have been said a lot more and quite a number of years back. [Base Finns Group :Skyton! ] Many of these sectors operate under exceptional circumstances on each shift. It bears enormous responsibility for the well - being, health and safety of others, defends lives day after day, or builds conditions in which everyone can live safely. I very much hope that the appreciation of these sectors and their workers will rise with this crisis and return to a level that it should have been at for a long time, because we will be able to cope with this corona crisis, but that is what we need the professionals who are doing this important job. The truth is, however, that there is a limited number of them, and just like any of us, they can also get infected and get out of work — this virus when you don’t wonder who it would be appropriate to hit and who it isn’t. I understand and share the concern for the survival of workers in critical sectors. Even as I work there, I know that even before this crisis, work has been done in many places at the extreme limits of coping with far too little resources. However, the situation is that we now need to find every possible means to secure a sufficient number of capable personnel in areas that are critical to society. It is important that the government now tries to take account of all possible situations and prepare for them as early as possible. It is important to take these decisions at a time when the situation is still stable enough to allow us to take account of the most fair possible implementation and to ensure uniform guidelines for employers in order to safeguard the well-being of workers. The employer's ability to temporarily arrange overtime for the employee without his consent, to derogate from the provisions on daily rest and weekly rest, and to derogate from the maximum working time provisions of the Working Time Act are exceptional and temporary. The precondition for them is that it must be absolutely necessary to ensure that action is taken. That is why these measures and regulations need to be adopted now. Each employer must arrange for the employee to have a suitable space for rest and breaks. The employer must genuinely ensure that the measures do not endanger safety at work or the health of the worker. Only healthy professionals can take care of us in the best possible way. In addition, the employer must ensure that the burden of work is distributed evenly and that the worker is able to recover from the burden of work. It is certain that, in this exceptional situation, we all share the common concern about the safety and resilience of workers in critical sectors. They will safeguard us through this crisis, and it is our job to safeguard them in this extremely demanding and exceptional situation so that they have the best possible opportunity to do demanding work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u9	Mr President! During this short parliamentary career, I have tried to learn new things, and one of them has been that we should be happy to stick to the issue, but we should also be able to deal with the matter next to us. [Laughter] Article 87 of the Emergency Act enable us to organise, under state control, the whole field of health care, i.e. hospital districts, municipal health centres, occupational health care, private clinics, all, to achieve the goals that are now important to us. It is precisely the need for labour that has emerged from this test debate. There has been a shortage of labour, which is needed for tracking, isolation and so on, and it has been said that when there is only one infection doctor in the medical district or in such a way — it is not the job of an infectious doctor in the hospital district, but it is the job of recruiting hundreds of people from the entire system, students and others, and this organisation is being carried out at the moment. This extension regulation is important. It gives the workplaces a legal basis for certain arrangements. My knowledge is that very much on the basis of this law there has not yet been any need for action. However, I share the concern expressed by a number of representatives here, which has used the words ‘fear’, ‘fear’ and ‘neine’. After all, this is a major crisis, the whole of society shares this fear, and I am sure that there is a real strain in the field of health care. However, we have a municipal service system, we cannot, either from this Parliament or from the Government, run all the issues that are now being asked for. I personally have a great deal of credit for this being the best health care systems in the world in many ways, and we will get through this at least as well as we can in other countries, even though this situation is undeniably challenging and difficult and still going in a difficult direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u10	There is an old rule that we are talking about a subject under the heading, but I have considered it necessary during this debate and the corona crisis to have a little topical discussion every day so that the title can be interpreted a little more broadly. — — — — The Minister will have the floor in about 10 minutes, I think that will be enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u11	Mr President! There is now a need for maximum efficiency in the social and health sector. In Finland, as elsewhere, health care resources are limited in terms of both staff and equipment. Consequently, exceptional measures are now needed to ensure an adequate number of medical staff in exceptional circumstances. Although the corona came from around the corner quite unexpectedly, on the other hand, it was to some extent expected that something like this would happen. It is now necessary to develop treatment processes, digitalisation, assessment of the need for care and multi-professional and cross-cutting cooperation — the sooner, the better. Our asset is that there are thousands of professionals in the social, health and other critical sectors in this country who are subject to changing, tough situations. They really need to be appreciated, not only in times of need. This Government decree introduces temporary changes in the working conditions of these workers in relation to their annual holidays, working hours and employment contracts, and it is therefore increasingly important to pay attention now to their ability to cope, to their safety and to support them. Finally, I would like to thank all these professionals who are creating new contacts and ways of working during this crisis. We must draw lessons from this so that we can continue to support their work more strongly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u12	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his presentation of the regulation. These are perhaps the most critical areas when it comes to the suppression of the corona virus and the arrangements for working time and annual leave there. One can only say that the government has been determined to act on the basis of the Emergency Act, and here is one example of these determined, controlled actions. It is worth quoting, as the President has said here, that if we want to assess more generally the government's policy in this case of coronavirus, then Finland has been commended internationally, and it is worth it. We have acted proactively, even early. The crisis is so special in Finland as compared to most other countries that the growth of this corona virus is potentially exponential in most countries at such a critical moment, i.e. it is increasing over and over again. Instead, we have had this growth linearly, so it has been more even. In that sense, it can be said that these proactive measures, which the government has now taken in various forms in recent weeks, are, as we have seen, the most obvious bites. This is the common sacrifice of the entire nation that is going on here — it has financial cost implications, it has implications for family structures, a variety of pressures have been taken up — but this is the way in which we are trying to manage this issue. This is not entirely under our control, and in that respect we will have to look at this situation carefully all the time. I hope that this determined, controlled line will also have a good result. After all, it is only at a later stage that we will see who, at this stage, can be hindsight in what way, but the best is done. Thank you to the government for these actions. I am well aware that the opposition has raised a number of critical points here, among other things in the care sector — there are shortcomings there — but we are all now acting in a very critical setting. It is quite clear that in this kind of emergency there will be a variety of mistakes along the way, the situation could later be made perhaps in another way and so on, but the best of this has been tried, and thanks to the government for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u13	Mr President! I am trying to focus on this particular proposal, but I would also like to express my concern about this situation of protective equipment, both in health care, in medical care, in home care and in general. I understand that everyone will be aware of this at this stage, but from the feedback that comes, you can say that it is serious and it must be taken up and a solution found. Mr President! In actual fact, however, I would like to comment on the proposal under discussion on how these annual leave arrangements, overtime regulations and others now want to ensure that we have sufficient skilled health care staff on the ground. This proposal must be fully supported. It is, of course, the case that health care staff now have to be very flexible, but I understand that there is certainly also an understanding that they are now on the frontline in the fight against this crisis and that their work is highly valued and supported insofar as it is possible. In fact, my question to the Minister concerns one thing that I have wondered about. However, at the moment we have tens of thousands of people already laid off, I think there are 350,000 people in the negotiations, but that is not what we have been talking about at all: if the treatment of terveys is not able to survive for the people who are there at the moment. Can those who, for example, are laid off, who are not professionals in the field but who may have a wide range of experience and skills, compromise their qualifications without, of course, suffering from the quality of care? I know that in some countries people from outside the health sector have also been taken into hospitals and health centres and other, at least, auxiliary jobs, so that there will be enough hands there if this crisis gets worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u14	Mr President! I am sure that these arrangements for working time and annual leave are extremely important because of these exceptional circumstances, and I very much appreciate the fact that the President said here that there is now a chance to speak more generally about this matter of interest rate, because, for example, we in the opposition do not have exactly the same sources of information, but we would also like to say hello from the field. It can be said that this is, in fact, very closely related to this issue as well. In other words, some of you have come to my ears, for example, that it is not just this one place, and there is now a great concern in the background: in other words, it is not limited to the activities of these people, namely nurses and medical staff in certain departments, but it is where people have gone from one department to another, when the person who may have been exposed and who may have become ill but who is asymptomatic has carried the virus with them to the next department. I would now like to see strict guidance from the government, especially from that ministry — and I know that this does not belong to the minister’s property, but through the doors — that these treatment units keep the so-called clean side and then there are the half of those who suspect that they are exposed or perhaps ill. This concern is now not limited to these nursing homes of the elderly, but even hospitals have come to such a message that has not been understood in the early stages, but there have been such so-called emergency helpers who have moved from one ward to another and with them possibly moved this virus. Of course, in those early days, when these restrictions were not so strict, these visits were also there to the hospital wards. After all, some hospitals are already afraid that they will have to use guards and resources to prevent people from going there to see their loved ones, because there is an increasing risk of the virus being transmitted half-way. Of course, the management of these instruments and, in particular, of this staff resources is absolutely essential, but these working time arrangements, I hope that the Minister will now send a strong message to the government that this is now the next thing to be strictly monitored — whether the avi that there is regionally looking at this issue, but that is absolutely essential, so that this situation does not get out of hand and that it does not happen as in some countries in these crisis hospitals, that hospitalisation can be a very high risk in itself. Another thing that has to do with this is to know whether or not these infected persons are in the department. It has also been heard in my ears that it has not been told, even to the nurses, whether there are infected in that department or not. This has now become the fear that there are not enough protective equipment and that they do not know the level of protection they have. If, for some reason, it has not been said whether the department is infected or not, then I believe that this is a very serious risk of safety at work. Now I hope that the Minister will pay particular attention to these matters. In situations like this, the openness is extremely important and the fact that we really have staff able to work now under these demanding conditions. Indeed, in many countries, as has already been mentioned earlier, risk supplements of this kind have already started to pay for the fact that the work in that department is certainly very pressurized. I believe that already knowledge of what is the situation and adequate protective equipment, at this stage, would certainly be the most important of all for many nurses, people belonging to medical staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u15	Mr President! Thank you for this good debate, which now dealt very extensively with this corona situation and the work being done in the field of social welfare and health care. First of all, I would like to stress that these articles, this regulation, are the last resort. In social welfare and health care, working hours have had to be organised throughout the ages. I myself have been working as a nurse and have been invited from the days off to work, to work the night shift to monitor and treat a patient on a respirator. And these are done with consent, but this law allows us to avoid, for example, this overtime with the employee’s consent, i.e. may be imposed. The starting point is that recruitment is primarily used, and working time arrangements are used first and foremost, so that normal methods move forward. I think someone here said — I wonder if Mr Lindén, who brought this up — that these situations could come before us in the event of a large number of nurses, doctors, and, if not agreed, then the employer has the last resort under this regulation to order work. However, even in that situation, it is the employer's duty to ensure that these rest periods come and are arranged there at the workplace and that health and safety at work is taken care of. It is the employer's duty to follow this up, of course, and to follow it very closely, and to keep the workers healthy and healthy, because of course it is in the employer's interest that they remain in good shape so that they can cope with these tasks. Then we asked about these protective equipment and other matters, that is, safety at work. There's been a lot of talk about shields. They asked where the Security of Supply Center had gone with these shields. This is not my responsibility to open them up, but the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has opened these warehouses of the Emergency Supply Centre, and they have been allocated to hospital districts through the erva districts. So that's where these shields, some of them, have gone. And, of course, they are meant to go, and they are going, where the work of social welfare and health care is being done. The employer must ensure proper protection, it is quite clear, and the government is always working hard, by all means, to make more of these protective equipment available. It is good that we have had these stocks in place and that the Security of Supply Centre, which is my responsibility, has had these protective devices and can now be used as a buffer here. But it is the responsibility of the health care districts and the employer to ensure that the protective equipment is and that sufficient provision has been made for this situation. Then there was the question of how to get to the tests. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the THL are instructed to give this test, but the clear message of the government has been — and it was once again said last week — that every worker in the social welfare and health care sector must be tested if there is any doubt that he has fallen ill. In other words, this needs to be in order, and we have heard from the Minister for Social Affairs and Health here, and it has been informed to the government that the number of these tests has been increased and the level of these tests has been increased all the time. There too, then, is the speed with which we have been able to increase these tests, and that is what we are doing all the time. Then these working arrangements and others, of which Mr Essayah, representatives of Räsänen and Juvonen, many others, were concerned here, are, of course, the practical work, and that is where we have to rely on the experts to organise the work. But I'm sure here again such guidance through THL is needed better that you know how to encase them with possible ills. The problem is, of course, that even there it is not always known who is involved in this virus, i.e. there are situations in which it may have passed through the staff or from one patient to another. That is the situation and all we can do is rely on the health professionals here, and I am sure that the guidelines will be further tightened up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u16	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The debate will continue at a later session today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u17	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to which the Committee on Culture must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u18	Mr President! The Government proposes to extend the restrictions currently in place on the obligation to organise early childhood education, education and training at all levels of education until 13 May. At the same time, however, the Government is already prepared to extend the exemption arrangements until the end of the semester at different levels of education, if this is required to limit the epidemic and new recommendations will be received from health authorities. These restrictions currently in force and put forward aim to significantly reduce contacts between pupils, students and teaching and other personnel, thus preventing and slowing down the spread of the corona virus in Finnish society. However, what is important in this exceptional situation is that the government has not introduced powers to suspend teaching, but is seeking to continue teaching through extraordinary teaching arrangements and distance education, so that we can ensure that every child and young person's right to learn is also realised in this exceptional situation. It is particularly important now that restrictions continue, that attention be paid to the situation, the status and the need for support of graduating students and students, so that we can also ensure that spring graduates and young people are able to move to the next levels of education and working life. The implementing regulation does not contain any significant changes to the content of the teaching, but, according to the proposal, the teaching is continuing under the same exceptional arrangements that are already in place and in force. With regard to early childhood education, the guidelines are unchanged. This means that early childhood education units are open, but the Government strongly recommends that parents arrange for the care of the child at home, if possible. From 1 to 3 p.m. If necessary, contact teaching is provided for students in the year class, but the Government recommends that these children also take part in education at a distance, provided that families have the opportunity to do so. 4. education for the year class and its parents is arranged as distance education and by extraordinary teaching arrangements. The exception to this rule is the extended compulsory education of pupils and pupils who have received special support and are therefore entitled to contact education at their own school. In this implementing regulation, we propose as a new line that students of preparatory education are also entitled to contact teaching if the municipality organises preparatory education. Preparatory education pupils are students from immigrant backgrounds of basic education, where education focuses primarily on studying Finnish and Swedish and providing the capacity for pre-school and basic education. These pupils may not be able to provide sufficient support for the development of these linguistic skills in distance education by their migrant guardians and may therefore already be in a vulnerable position, which has led to this clarification being justified. The change concerns some 3,000 pupils at national level. The provisions on upper secondary schools and vocational institutions do not change except in the technical details of vocational education and training. The specifications of vocational education and training relate to the assistance and aids required for demanding specific support and study. In addition, there is no longer any need for an exemption for the drawing up and updating of personal competence development plans. Legislation on liberal education, basic art education, will remain unchanged. The facilities are still closed and local education has been suspended. Students still taking part in contact teaching are entitled to school food and school meals can be arranged for pupils in remote education to the extent possible, taking into account the need to avoid close contact. For example, the teacher may, in cooperation with student services or other municipal actors, identify pupils for whom a daily school meal is particularly important and arrange a meal for these students even in situations where the provision of meals is restricted in order to avoid close contact. This procedure will help to secure school food for all students who, for example, would otherwise be at risk of being deprived of adequate food during the day. Finally, Mr President, these exceptional teaching arrangements and distance teaching require a lot of Finnish teachers, they also require a lot from Finnish parents, but based on the messages that have come from the field of education, Finland has been surprisingly successful in this transition. Now that this exceptional period and these restrictions continue, there are also growing concerns about the growth of learning differences, and I have therefore stressed that it is extremely important that all municipalities also make plans and guidelines on how the services of support for learning and support for families are implemented during exceptional educational arrangements, i.e. there is still a need for the work of special teachers, school instructors, psychologists and curators, and that this support should continue to be provided to all those in need, and thus support students in their own learning, even though the ways of providing these services today differ somewhat from what they are otherwise accustomed to. But good work has been done in the municipalities and good operating models have also been developed to provide this support for learning at a distance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u19	Mr President! The Government's decree on restrictions on the obligation to organise early childhood education and education is probably largely familiar with the content. The regulation is a continuation of the earlier restrictions on education and education, which will continue until 13 May. However, some clarifications are being made on the provisions, which we heard about the Minister's explicit presentation. These clarifications and additions are necessary, but the big picture remains the same. Both our society and the global world have been hit by a virus storm, and we are well aware of its consequences. The content of this regulation is one of our ways of protecting life and protecting our health. President! A few comments on what's going on in the field of education and education. Early childhood education, pre-school education and 1. to 3. As regards classes, many parents have kept their children at home, even if there was a right of access to local education and the right to attend the day care centre. It is clear, however, that the nature of some of the older professions, such as these much-spoken critical sectors, means that the local education solution has been the only option. Schools, educational institutions and homes are now in a situation where the routines of distance education begin to evolve. I'm sure there were a lot of adjustments in the beginning, but it's getting better. It should also be noted that regional and local differences remain, which is probably due to the wide variation in digital pedagogy and in the level and quantity of technological equipment in general. Some municipalities have so far gone on the basis of chalkboards and some municipalities have used the brightest technology in the industry and, of course, it is also reflected in the prevailing distance education. However, good teaching can be carried out in a wide variety of ways. All in all, schools, educational institutions, and parents who live in many places during peak years have done well. It must be said, however, that the conditions of homes are different: competition fatigue threatens to weigh, perhaps the parents’ nerves become tense, and, in the interests of honesty, some children are more or less dependent on their own happiness. In these circumstances, the teachers, the staff in the field, student care and social services will certainly do their best to ensure that the antennae also reach remote homes. Municipalities are increasing measures to ensure that school food also reaches pupils in remote education, at least those who need it in particular. This is a good thing. I believe that the distribution of school food can be carried out in such a way that it does not pose health risks. It requires common sense and adherence to the prevailing guidelines, and I want to believe that it will be done. There are also some sensitive situations in education that belong to every spring, whether corona or not. The final ninth graders of comprehensive school need their final assessment, and we are fortunate that the national evaluation guidelines are reaching the municipalities. This will ensure equity in further studies. In the field of vocational education and training, critical periods are also taking place, particularly for graduates, and given the circumstances, it has been possible to ensure that the necessary local education situations, both in terms of traineeships and evaluations, have been managed. Of course, the situation has not been ideal, everything else, but creativity has been done. President! The high school students in Korona Spring have also worked under heavy pressure, on an accelerated schedule. They also deserve to celebrate. Fortunately for us, Minister of Education Andersson has taken the view that the celebrations of both future students and graduates will not be cancelled, but will be postponed. They're supposed to have a party, the highlights of life. There are certainly many things that can be handled at a distance when applying for a university student, but the difficulty factor, of course, brings the areas that are based on participation in the selection tests — many of them arts and sports. President! No matter what the times are, we'll get through this. I would like to ask Minister Andersson about the professional group, which is all too rarely discussed. School counselors, who are extraordinarily important in today’s school world, to which teachers often rely, have in many places been laid off or transferred to other assignments. They might be the ones who look at remote homes. They could be the ones who support students in trouble. So how does a respected minister see this worrying lack of pilots in our field?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u20	Mr President! There is a Government decree that will continue the limitation measures in connection with, among other things, distance learning, i.e. schoolchildren will continue to study at a distance. Who could have believed that we were in such a situation that schoolchildren were studying at home? It is quite clear that a great deal of thanks go to the teachers for how students, schoolchildren, those children there at home are doing well and doing those studies. A big thank you to the teachers, but also to the students and students who have taken this distance learning seriously. My own home also has a distance schooler, a ninth grader, and it has been great to see how well the distance school has worked. Of course it's teachers' merit, but I've personally noticed that maybe remote school also has some kind of soothing effect on the student's learning — he gets to study himself, and in a way, all the responsibility and measures he takes are on his own shoulders — I've seen it myself. It has also been interesting and refreshing to note that the bell rings early in the morning, the computer is opened and the remote school begins and the class is studying there and there is also a discussion with one another. Mr President! Great thanks are also due to the students this spring. They have shown courage and determination, and also a sense of purpose, in the fact that the matriculation exams were now on a busy schedule, and they have also had to stretch. Many of the students have also applied for further studies, and I have also asked the Minister in writing how the entrance exams will now be organised. The situation is that, even if we did not have this corona crisis, some of the students will be able to go straight to the university with certificates and some will be waiting for this to happen, and have already enrolled in training courses, among other things. After all, this knowledge of what will happen, whether or not to get directly through the testimonies comes at a rather late stage. By then, there should be the ability and ability to take the entrance exams. Many of the students have already started a training course, and the courses have also been transferred from local education to the Internet. — How, Minister, is it pointless to take a training course if there are no entrance exams, or whether the entrance exams will come, and how will they be arranged? The same applies, of course, to those seeking to go to polytechnics. And it is very important that we celebrate and remember these students this spring when the time comes and the situation calms down. The students deserve their own celebrations. Mr President! The ninth graders are also under a lot of pressure because they are really getting the final assessment and then there are postgraduate studies, whether it is professional or upper secondary school. In what way does it now come about that these reviews and assessments will certainly fit in and everyone will be able to study there somewhere in the future? It has been very good — I think it is very important — that children and young people have been protected from the virus. This has definitely been a good measure of distance schooling. This is also how we have learned and seen how different learning opportunities we will have in the future when we see that we have different learners. For a lot of people, remote school is a good option.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u21	Mr President! I would like to acknowledge to the Minister that you have made such a strong recommendation to these parents of first- and third-graders and also to the parents of children in early childhood education that children should be taken into care at home and at a distance, if possible. It has been widely observed by Finnish parents, even though changes to these regulations occurred in the early stages. Regrettably, the continuation of these exceptional conditions in school education is still necessary, and that is why this regulation is also necessary. Here the Minister referred to this school meal and there has been a debate on it. Some schools have done so that the school has been given a food package, that is, the raw materials, for example, for two weeks at home, and the homes have been truly grateful for these food packages. Then again, I know that there are municipalities where the same thing has been done, but it is said that if the family needs it, you can pick up a package like this if the money is not enough at home. I think this is a little stigmatising. It is quite a high threshold to become, as it were, the low - income family that is going to pick up the food package. Even when we have school food for everyone, not just for families with limited resources, so that such labelling does not happen, I think it would be better if these food packages were distributed to all families, because now these materials are saved when children do not eat at school, and that is how families can be supported. This distance education has produced good things, and a huge digital leap has been made in teaching methods and in school as a whole. Hopefully, these methods can then be used and used when we get back to normal conditions. At the same time, there is great concern about schoolchildren and students who, as it were, are now losing the circle of this teaching, who are not being contacted or who are not receiving adequate support from home for this distance education. It is therefore very likely or certain that the need for specific actions, special education, will increase. In this context, I would appeal to the government and the Minister for Education to put all possible resources in place to meet the needs of schoolchildren and students who need this particular support and to give up this previous target, which has now become obsolete in order to extend compulsory education. Now we must continue to prioritise things, to prioritise them. I would also like to thank the Minister for the fact that at this information conference you promised and created a hope for the students that there will now be an effort to support the graduation of all these students, who are now graduating this spring, to make special arrangements for everyone to graduate. I would now like to ask you just one specific question, which I have been asked specifically to ask you, and I hope that you will be able to answer. We now have, for example, those in teacher training and also in early-school education who are supposed to graduate this spring, but they lack the final training that usually takes place with children. When they do not now get to do this final training there in school or kindergarten, the question is: After all, these special arrangements also apply to these students so that they can graduate so that they can now find some innovative way to complete that final training without this class or without a kindergarten group? That is the question that has been asked of you. Mr President! In order to avoid these additional social contacts here in Parliament too, I intend to go to my office there, but I will listen to the Minister's answer there. That is all I wanted to say to the Minister that, although I am leaving this Chamber for my office, I will follow what is happening here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u22	Mr President! The emergency conditions in schools continue and only minor clarifications are made to implement them. The attention of immigrant children is in order, it has become feedback to me too, and there may be a need for contact education. As we look at the entire school path, early childhood education goes forward as before. Of course, when the crisis persists, there may be fatigue in reconciling parental telework and child care. Therefore, it is good to be awake in order to act accordingly. It is good that this regulation allows parents who cannot take care of their children themselves while working. It is important that we keep the wheels of society running as far as possible. Teachers in basic education have done a job worthy of hating when they moved on to teleworking and distance teaching with such a fast rhythm. Permanent digitalisation has been introduced, and at the same time the differences between municipalities and schools in digital pedagogy have been highlighted, as Mr Kivisaari explained above. Computers donated by companies have eased the lack of equipment and increased the equality of students. Of course, teachers have done telework in many ways and even according to the terrain. The regulation allows the teacher to deviate from the national objectives and the distribution of hours and the number of lessons, as far as is necessary, in terms of the scope of the teaching. This is still a good message for so many careful teachers who are not able to relax in some way but who are doing their spots and can then get tired of acting. We can now look at the big lines, the whole — the phenomena that are encouraged by the curriculum. From the point of view of fundamental rights, the application of the Emergency Act should always be assessed in the light of the need for all restrictive measures. When we do not know how the disease situation is progressing in our country, we cannot know how long we will continue under these conditions. It is true that some of the students have become enthusiastic in a whole new way, and perhaps there will be permanent practices that will continue to serve these very students. Many people want to take responsibility more than they used to, as Mrs Juvonen said. That's what I've been through with my own boys. As a special teacher, I am concerned about all those who need special and enhanced support. Student care will continue to be carried out to the extent and in ways that are possible under the circumstances. It is important not to lay off school counselors. They can help with student care when employees are also needed elsewhere. They bring flexibility to the everyday activities of student care, communication, remote guidance and support provision. If we do the support now carelessly, the work will be even worse for us next autumn. The need for student care is growing as this crisis continues, as family problems can escalate. There's been a lot of talk about school food. Last week a little over half of the municipalities arranged food for those in local education, 44 per cent in some other way. Children were in a somewhat unequal position. It is good that recommendations have been made that school food should be organised as far as possible. It is also a very important support for families with children. In vocational education, not all students are able to work independently and telework. That was the case before this crisis, and we talked a lot about it, and that need for guidance has gone nowhere. One aspect is that learning in the workplace, learning in the workplace, must also be safe under these conditions, and this involves one of my questions. When the environment of the screens is little in search, and although the qualifications are certainly being carried out flexibly, I would like to ask the Minister: now that we want to support everyone's graduation, is there any information on how many students in vocational schools might be transferred because of the difficulties in doing the screens?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u23	Mr President! As has often been emphasised in this Chamber, although such a short period of time for an adult may seem to pass by, for many children these may be the turning moments of life, and it is therefore of the utmost importance to draw attention to the fact that we are certainly doing the best we can now. That is why it has been great to see that these implementing regulations really do reflect the great concerns and shortcomings that have arisen over the last few weeks. In Article 3, the regulation emphasises that education should be limited only to the extent necessary and that other policies, other methods of operation, should also be sought in the field of student care, so that at least some kind of services and at least some kind of assistance are available at a distance. Indeed, there was a worrying message from all over Finland that services may have been restricted by the assumption that if you are not there, then, for example, the help of a school psychologist or curator is not needed at all, and this was not the intention, but that the services would be arranged in a new way only at a new time. It has been recognised that this is, of course, a major challenge for Finnish municipalities, and that is why it is great that the Government is now taking up this challenge and considering the best ways of supporting municipalities financially too, because now, of course, many municipalities are losing tax revenue, and even economic pressures are beginning to affect the way in which services can be organised — and when such drastic emergency conditions and economic pressure are combined, if we do not do so carefully and if we do not guarantee support for the municipalities, it can be fatal for the future of children and young people. Therefore, all these individual regulations should be considered as part of a wider picture, what the life of a child and a young person looks like in practice under exceptional circumstances. Many have been home alone or with one parent for a long time. The parent may have had to pay attention to telework, and conditions are bound to get harder and harder, especially in families that have had a difficult time before this crisis. Unfortunately, this is reflected in the statistics on violence in close relationships, this is reflected in an increased need for mental health services, and it is therefore essential that this whole is constantly assessed. This is affected by the economic conditions, but also, of course, by this whole set of regulations, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has underlined that, instead of always looking at one regulation with a point of view, it must be ensured that it is as good as possible for fundamental rights, and it is good that these regulations have now really begun to underscore the necessity that comes out of Section 4 of the Emergency Act, so that every actor will certainly receive the clear message that services and teaching, support services can only be restricted to the extent that is absolutely necessary. So now, hopefully, it will not catch up with the message that we will then know what it is about behind these. And I really think it is worth thanking the Council of State and the Ministry for bringing these new important elements into the legislative work so quickly, while this is the first time that we are operating with this Emergency Act, many practices are now completely new and this development requires a very rapid response. The big thing that goes by the side of this all the time is anticipation. Even now many families, children and young people wonder what the autumn looks like. Now, especially as this regulation is about to authorise the providers of education to deviate from national objectives and curricula, it is becoming even more clear that at what point will the learning gaps that may arise at this moment be filled. I would have asked the Minister what was, as it were, the longer-term plan after this crisis. A lot has been said that what is the plan for the coming months when we go to dismantle the restrictions? Certainly, for children and young people, if we look at the order of priority, where should we first give more children access to contact education or otherwise unblock restrictions, that is the point, but if we look further, how can we ensure that any deficits that may arise now can be filled later? After all, we are talking about the future of public finances when the spending limits debate talks about what the coming years will look like for public finances. It is therefore very important to underline that this resource need for education and education is not only this spring but also from now on, because many children and young people can take many years to overcome the effects of this crisis. That is why we really need to look further into the future in order to guarantee everyone an equal opportunity for a good future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u24	Mr Risikko, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u25	Mr President! So here we are dealing with the regulation on temporary restrictions on the obligation to organise early childhood education, education and training, and now we are extending this period for a month. It's just as well. We all know that we cannot yet relax this restriction in this respect. Of course, the situation is being evaluated all the time, but at this stage this is justified. Now, in this new regulation, we have a few clarifications, which the Minister has just told us very well, and a few clarifications have also been made. Well, in our opinion in the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, we have already drawn attention to these very guidelines as far as the state is concerned. The Ministry of Education and Culture and the Finnish National Board of Education are working very hard to obtain clear, understandable and consistent instructions. It is quite understandable when there are quite a lot of actors in those municipalities — there are representatives of the municipalities, there are representatives of the gates, and then there are schools — that there may be a slight amount of confusion there. But when they are clear from the government and as much as possible is how these are read, and also the lines between them have been opened, the better. The second point that we drew attention to in our opinion is that compulsory education is not limited to anything, it is and remains, and the Minister himself has made good reference to it. Similarly, we drew attention to the fact that it is not a question of home education, but that it is really a question of distance education, which is taken care of from the school there. But it is quite clear that surely the parents have had to help it. We also paid attention to school meals and student care, because we worry about how they will be organised, because the regulation says that ‘in an appropriate way’. There have been good examples of how the matter of school food has now been taken care of in different parts of Finland. There's been some trouble, but it's been pretty good. But then, as a matter of fact, about these concerns of mine: This distance education, which I have already mentioned, has required a great deal from teachers and schools and school leaders and, of course, from parents. One can say that we have really taken such a huge leap here, a very real digital leap. But there is also the reverse side of this coin that, after interviews with teachers and education leaders, about 20 percent are students who are unable to keep up. There may be many reasons: there may be learning difficulties, there may be a situation at home that simply does not have the peace to learn, and there may be many such things as physical illnesses, there may also be mental problems, there may be neurological problems. And then this brings about the inability to learn. Of course, there are also those who learn better there at a distance, and I have been informed of that too. But in any case, there is a risk of growing learning differences, to which the Minister has often referred. I think that we really need to pay attention now to the number of special teachers and the number of school counselors, the psychological and school curator services, which are the ones we need to invest in now. When this corona passes — that information is already coming from the field — then we must make a special effort to increase the services of these professionals. Then another, which I am also concerned about, is the need for child welfare. The need for child welfare will grow. When I myself have done a great deal of work on that side of social security and then on the other hand also on the school side, I say that, in such a situation, the need for child protection will grow unfailingly. We currently have about 73,000 children in child welfare, and this number will increase. There are problems at home: there are substance abuse problems, there are mental health problems, there are many kinds of family problems. And these are things that really are not stopped by anything happening in the world, but, unfortunately, this corona will increase the use of drugs and these in situations where there are problems with families anyway. Then, of course, if we do not seek help in mental health crises, they will also get worse. And those who suffer there are specifically children. All I have to say here is that I know that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Education and Culture are in constant contact with these kind of Teams and Skype meetings, and they go through them every day — this is what we heard about the expert statements there — and I would say that if I were a minister at the moment, I would ask the municipalities to have such an emergency child protection plan, how they intend to act, such an action plan. It doesn't have to be like formal, but it does have to be something about those municipalities. It's just that the municipalities need to be a little pampered and ask how you do this. I would say that few municipalities have thought about a child protection plan for exceptional circumstances. They have been thinking about everything else relating to exceptional circumstances, such as how information goes, who leads and where to get what, where to get these protective equipment and these, but they have not thought about such an emergency child protection plan, and that is what I would ask. Then one more thing, these graduates — and there have been good speeches about it here — namely those who have completed primary school but also those who have graduated from vocational education and training: Now the situation is that if you delay your studies, you will not get the paper. However, we need, for example, advanced students in health care who are almost ready, but if they are going to work there now, their pay is worse than if they were ready. I therefore appeal to those who have met the criteria and who have achieved the goals — not, of course, of a person who does not have the skills, but those who have the objectives achieved — to be able to graduate, get the papers, and then, when they are needed in that field and in health care, then there would be a chance of getting there too. But now it may be that some organizations may not even take those who do not have papers in their hands. — — — — But here, I'll pick it up later, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u26	Mr President! Thank you for your excellent questions and comments. I'm gonna go through all this. First of all, Mr Juvonen asked about the examination of admissions — here too we are going a little on Mr Kosonen's side, but I am happy to answer these questions on his behalf too. Indeed, the Ministry of Education and Culture, the National Board of Education and the higher education institutions are constantly monitoring the situation and also the progress of this epidemic. And the starting point is that somehow the entrance exams will be arranged. We have an estimated 46,000 new students who should start college studies in the autumn, and about half of them will be selected on the basis of the choice of evidence, i.e. the rest using this entrance exam route. According to the plans currently in force, the university entrance exams will be held during the last two weeks of May and the first week of June. And if there are any changes to this timetable now due to the interest rate, those changes will be announced by mid-April at the latest. In other words, students who have completed the entrance exams will also be informed if there is any change in the schedule. Then there were questions of completion, including Mr Räsänen and Mr Risikko and also the representative. Kinnunen raised the issue of graduating students. At the very least, if we are talking about basic education and secondary education, there are very clear guidelines for the providers of education that we must now organise procedures in order to ensure that these students are completed. And as regards secondary vocational education and training, it is also recommended that priority should be given to those graduates who are graduating this spring when the displays are being held. And also the instructions that, if it is not possible to arrange displays in the workplace, it is also possible to arrange them under workplace-like conditions. We have, among other things, educational institutions with their own sites or similar sites, but the main thing is that they themselves can be arranged as if they were in a real situation at the workplace. With regard to the third degree and university of applied sciences graduates, the situation is perhaps a little more challenging in that our universities will of course also have autonomy to decide how to organise the work there, and in that respect there may be students who will not have the opportunity to do the internships that are compulsory for their own degree during this spring. But if such a situation exists for example among polytechnic students, we recommend that they contact their own university and university representatives to try to find out what can be done and whether these trainings might be possible during the summer, for example. Congressman Kivisaari also asked about the status of school counselors. This availability of student support was raised on a number of issues. I do, however, attach the utmost importance to the work of school counselors now in the context of distance education and exceptional teaching arrangements. And hopefully there will also be an understanding at municipal level that we also need the vital contribution of these professionals now in the coming weeks, so that they can also benefit from their skills and input in supporting those students who most need it. For example, in many municipalities school counselors have been used to communicate by telephone or videoconferencing with the individual pupils who need it, and in this way it has also been implemented individually. Then both Mrs Suomela and Mr Risikko raised the issue of the future and what will happen here and how they want to respond to the fact that very likely there will also be growing differences in knowledge after this long period of time. As early as spring, the Government is preparing the first such package of support for children and young people, i.e. a package to support municipalities in providing additional and support education for all students who need it during the autumn. It will, of course, be an acute situation which must be reached after this period and after summer holidays. But in addition to that, we have both this educational equality and the support for learning as general themes of the Government term. We are in the process of preparing for the ministry, which has been launched before this corona crisis and which includes experts to consider ways of strengthening educational equality in Finland structurally, and also how the system of support for learning in Finland should be reformed so that it works better than at present. In other words, I see for myself that the preparatory work that could be started even before this corona crisis also responds very directly to the needs we will have after this period and, in a way, to the problems that we will solve together in the field of education, so that we can ensure the highest possible quality for all young people in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u27	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The debate will continue at a later session today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u28	This plenary session will be suspended and resumed at 4:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u29	The plenary session adjourned at 3:38 p.m. now resumes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-49.u30	The 13th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. In view of the urgency of the matter, the Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the next plenary session, to be held today on 6 April 2020.
