ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 5/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u2	Mr President! I present the report of the Administrative Committee. — — — — The present Government proposal proposes to provide for new temporary measures aimed, in particular, at making more flexible use of the labour input of third-country nationals legally resident in Finland in the context of an epidemic of interest rates. Due to the corona virus epidemic, a large number of people are laid off. The number of layoffs is increasing, while the threat of becoming unemployed has increased. According to the Government's proposal under discussion, the majority of such workers come from tourism, hotel, restaurant, cultural and service industries. There are also many foreigners working in Finland among the employees in these fields. According to the proposal, the challenge during the epidemic is to have sufficient workforce, especially in the horticultural, agricultural and natural product sectors, but also in the construction and shipbuilding sectors, as well as in the energy, technology, logistics and transport sectors. It is therefore intended that foreigners who are laid off and become unemployed, in particular through work-based residence permits, could be used more flexibly in working in these sectors and, in particular, in seasonal agricultural work. The Committee attaches great importance to the objective of the government's proposal to increase labour supply, primarily among foreigners residing legally in the country of origin. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Aliens Act and the Act on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of working as seasonal workers. It is clear from the arguments put forward by the Government that the proposal has been prepared by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and that its preparation has been urgent and it has therefore been necessary to derogate from the consultation guidelines for drafting legislation. The committee understands the urgency of the matter but also notes that, despite this, the government's proposal should have been prepared, at least in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and Migri, who is responsible for the whole of foreign law. According to the committee, such cooperation could have avoided the ambiguities, contradictions and other problems that were left behind in the proposal and in its explanatory statement. It is difficult to determine, for example, the legal content of all the proposals on the basis of the explanatory statement of the government proposal and the proposed legislation. The laws proposed in the proposal for amendment are the Aliens Act and the seasonal labour law. In addition, the Committee's report amends the provisions on the entry and exit, residence and employment of the Aliens Act. The government proposal therefore only includes these two first-mentioned legislative proposals, but the committee also proposes to amend the other two laws. For the sake of clarity, the committee stresses that the proposed provisions do not alter the conditions for entry or authorisation laid down in the Foreigners' Act or other laws. The Government's proposal proposes to add a new section to the Aliens Act temporarily and to the seasonal labour law as well. They are proposed to remain in force until the end of December. Under the proposed new Aliens Act, a residence permit or visa issued under the Aliens Act entitles people to work in all sectors and tasks relevant to security of supply or the functioning of the labour market. In addition, the new provision proposed to the Seasonal Labour Act also provides for the right to work to be accompanied by a certificate of seasonal employment. According to the committee's report, the idea seems to be that the reference to all residence permits granted under the Foreigners' Act would extend the regulation to those legally residing on residence permits under other laws. However, the committee does not believe that this is possible. The committee also proposes directly by law to define the areas in which a foreigner can work under the current exceptional circumstances in terms of security of supply or the functioning of the labour market. More specifically, the tasks of the sectors to be included in the law would be defined by a regulation. The committee also notes that the amendments proposed in the Government proposal aim to contribute to the achievement of the security of supply targets. The proposed amendments aim to reduce the damage to industry caused by the restriction of border traffic by increasing labour supply in critical sectors. The committee proposes significant changes to the first draft legislation proposed by the government on foreign law and 2. the draft law on seasonal labour and, in addition, the amendment of the law in force which is not included in the proposal of two governments. The committee also proposes that the 1st, 3rd and 4th legislative proposals should apply only to foreigners with a residence permit when the legislation is in force. Instead, 2. the draft law on seasonal workers does not apply to this restriction. The committee also proposes that all these transitional laws be in force only until the end of October this year. If, on the basis of monitoring or otherwise, there is a need to extend or amend the provisions further, this will require a new government proposal. The committee therefore proposes changes to the seasonal labour law in general similar to those proposed to the foreign law. This means that permits for seasonal work entitle you to work in all the tasks necessary for security of supply or for the functioning of the labour market. The committee also proposes that residence permits granted on the basis of studies should fall within the scope of the law and that the legislation on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals on the basis of research, studies, traineeships and voluntary activities should be temporarily amended. The purpose of these changes to the proposal is to ensure that during a state of emergency, the supply of labour is increased in sectors and tasks necessary for security of supply and the functioning of the labour market. The committee's report contains an anti-section clause with one statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u3	Mr President! This government proposal certainly does not respond to the plight of farmers in the event of interest. As has already been said, the proposal provides for some hundreds of foreign workers who are already in the country who have been laid off from previous work because of the interest rate, when the need is as high as 16,000. The committee's report also finds this confusing. In public and in the speeches made by representatives of the government parties, it has been suggested that the proposal would have a significant impact on the farmers' crisis, but this is not the case. Concrete action is indeed urgently needed, but I believe that this proposal is nothing more than ideological manipulation by the government. Where are the massive recruitment campaigns and incentives for Finnish lay-offs to apply for seasonal workers in rural areas? Last week, the True Finns suggested that unemployment benefit would not be cut from those who have lost their jobs due to the corona crisis and moved into the rural sector as seasonal workers. I hope this will be considered by the government, as the Prime Minister promised. Another option would be to offer, exceptionally, additional compensation, such as the summer voucher, for applying to the sector. Mr President! The crisis has shown that although we have a high level of domestic food, it seems that the harvest season has not been secured without foreign labour. We are not opposed to seasonal workers, because they do not burden our society in any way, but we all have to admit that this cannot be the case in the future. The interest rate is hardly going to be the last pandemic requiring exceptional arrangements. In the long term, the aim must be to get the workforce into rural areas in Finland. The process is long and it will not be resolved at the moment, but it must be pursued with active action.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u4	Mr President! This proposal aims to increase the supply of labour now in exceptional circumstances, particularly in those sectors where it is necessary to ensure security of supply, and this is now precisely the case for farms, particularly berry and farm holdings. According to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and MTK, as many as 16,000 seasonal workers are needed annually in rural areas. In 2019, around 10,000 people came to Finland with a seasonal work certificate, i.e. from visa-free countries, and in the same year, around 1100 residence permits were issued based on seasonal work, and in addition, there were still people in Finland with seasonal work visas. In the light of the statistics, the largest group of applicants in recent years has been Ukrainian citizens. The number of seasonal workers per year is large and, as a labour force, critical for, among other things, berry and agricultural holdings, and, of course, for these other sectors, which have also been addressed here. But, of course, it is of particular concern from the point of view of agriculture that it is possible to ensure that the harvest can also be harvested and that we now have the courage to do the seeding and planting work that should necessarily be done soon, and, of course, entrepreneurs should have the certainty that this crop will then be harvested in due course. That is why, of course, in this context, we must share this concern, which has in fact already been expressed in the government proposal and which the previous speaker has also mentioned, that, in practice, the positive impact of this proposal on employment can only be expected to be limited to a few hundred, that is to say, a relatively small proportion of this need, but of course all these are necessary, and in that sense this proposal is necessary and appropriate, and I understand that the Committee on Administrative Affairs has also made the necessary good corrections. But, indeed, in addition to this, we should also make a strong effort to bring Finns into these agricultural seasonal jobs. In other words, different means are needed, such as pay subsidies or summer work vouchers, to encourage Finnish students, schoolchildren and also laid-off workers to do so. I myself think that if nothing else is helpful, I would like the government to send a positive message to farmers who are starting their work right now that we will then call on the garrison to help us if there are no other means to repair the harvest. All in all, Mr President, this situation, in which we are now, does make a strong point of how important it is that we have our own security of supply, that we have security of supply from domestic food production, and, of course, it has also been particularly important to have this security of supply, for example, because of these protective materials in health care. But I believe that this epidemic and this crisis, these exceptional conditions, are an important lesson for all of us Finns that security of supply must be ensured in all circumstances. We never know what kind of crisis we will be facing in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u5	Mr President! After Mr Räsänen has spoken, it is easy to continue. The interest situation has indeed had a major impact on our society, and now we are faced with the question of whether we have food, Finnish food, grain products or other available here in the autumn. This is the question that this government proposal is now trying to answer. It is quite true that it is only one tool in this whole problem, but nevertheless it is very important that the government has also started to move on this issue. I share the same thought that has been expressed here before that it is inevitable that it will also ask itself whether we have too many of these critical agricultural tasks today on the basis of foreign labour, on the basis that people can also come under exceptional circumstances. Now that this acute situation has been brought to an end, we will also have to have a wide-ranging debate in society, not only with the government, but also with employers and with the various players in the trade sector, whether this is in good hands at the moment. Well, when it comes to this matter, so much has happened since the last referral here. Now, of course, I think it is also important to comment on this issue, which we have done in committee, and I would like to thank the committee and the services for the good cooperation we have achieved with the important changes made to this proposal, very important changes which have largely been agreed upon. As a principle, this proposal is important, namely that we allow foreigners who are already here to change jobs and employers as the harvest season progresses. That is a sensible principle, for, at the moment, when the borders are closed, these people are also unable to leave here. This will also ensure that this security of supply in these critical tasks can be ensured. Well, some key changes have now been made in this cooperation over the last few days, the first of which relates to this period of time, and we have also come to that conclusion in good cooperation with the rapporteur, that it is necessary to clarify this period and limit it until the end of October. It has then been decided to limit these tasks, these areas covered by the proposal, and they have been taken into a separate regulation. I also think this is very important, and this was the subject of extensive debate in committee. In addition to the debate in committee on this proposal, which is now under discussion, we want to limit this in principle to foreigners already present in Finland, and we also made a small clarification with regard to these new permits, that these new permits will only be issued for these seasonal workers, and then we will try to further restrict the people concerned by the government's proposal. I think this is a very important change. Finally, Mr President, it was decided to involve these students. I think that it makes perfect sense and reasonable that, in the case of foreigners who are currently here in Finland, we should make it available to the entire reserve and be able to ensure that we respond to everyone's concerns about security of supply in terms of food safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u6	Mr President! The government proposal in question therefore seeks to amend the foreign law and the seasonal labour law and the other two laws temporarily due to the corona crisis. The proposal has changed in many respects in committee, which shows the urgency with which proposals are now being brought to Parliament. The urgency is understandable, of course, but the proposals that have been made too quickly, which the relevant parties cannot even say in the committee consultation, cannot be appropriate. The purpose of the Act is to facilitate the employment of foreigners legally residing in the country in sectors that are critical for security of supply. The main reason for this is the lack of labour in agriculture, which is due to the uncertain access to seasonal labour due to travel restrictions. In agriculture, especially during the harvest period, the share of foreign workers as employees in berry picking and other similar jobs is very high. Most of these people are seasonal workers. They come to the country, work and leave the country. Traditionally, countries of origin include Ukraine, Belarus, Thailand and Russia. Less people come from the Baltics and Poland. In Finland, 16,000 seasonal workers work annually. The need for 1500 employees has been assessed critically according to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Security of Supply Centre. Everyone shares the same view that, for seasonal workers, the agricultural situation is difficult because our borders are closed. A large number of foreigners, especially those working in the service sector, have become unemployed after the government’s prescribed restaurants have been closed. True Finns think it is good if such persons are employed, for example, in seasonal jobs in agriculture and do not remain to burden social security and the service structure. The Finns Party would be happy to accept the government proposal if it had been limited to specific tasks in the field of agriculture and forestry, as was generally imagined. No, it wasn't. In the proposal, the number of critical areas where the right to work and the conditions for being in the country of residence must be extended is calculated in a number of other areas. This includes the construction and transport sector and many other sectors where there were a large number of Finnish and foreign job seekers already before the corona epidemic. The government is bringing more labour into the labour market, while these sectors lay off and lay off tens of thousands of people. It is estimated that we will soon be closer to 400,000 new laid off or unemployed in addition to the previous job seekers. As Mr Simula explained earlier, last week the Finns of Peru proposed urgent ad hoc legislation under which seasonal work in tasks that are important for security of supply would not this year remove unemployment benefits from a person who has been laid off or laid off because of an epidemic. Prime Minister Marin gave a green light to the idea at the sitting, but unfortunately the committee did not support the proposal today from the government parties. The Government's proposal also seeks to include residence permits granted on the basis of studies in the application of the law for a reason which is unclear. This is amazing because even now a foreign student has a legal right to work 25 hours a week during the course of education and full time at other times. The right to work in Finland is therefore well secured for students. True Finns felt that there was no need to extend the right to work. Unfortunately, the government's proposal is not the answer to farm problems. According to the proposal itself, the impact on employment is estimated to be limited to a few hundred — of course, because only a small proportion of people who have received a residence permit want to work in agriculture, for example. Labour shortages in agriculture will therefore not be eliminated by this proposal, but, on the other hand, the oversupply of labour in many other sectors will worsen. The same incentive problems apply to foreigners and Finns in the event of a residence permit being obtained or otherwise secured. We believe that a residence permit should be withdrawn if a foreigner who is laid off or laid off from another sector does not accept the work of a critical agricultural sector. We therefore proposed in committee that a fixed-term law should apply only to agricultural and forestry work where the need for labour is acute and real, and that the law should not apply separately to students, because they already have the right to work. In addition, the Finns of Peru think that once the crisis has been eased, it is very serious to consider whether it is reasonable that such critical sectors depend almost entirely on foreign workers. This cannot be reasonable in terms of security of supply. Mr President! I object to the report as a basis for our discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u7	Mr President! We are therefore dealing with this government's proposal for a temporary amendment of the Alien Act and of the Act on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of working as seasonal workers. It is only a few days since we discussed this same government proposal in the referral debate, and since then we have heard very narrowly in the Administrative Committee and we have already completed the report today. This exceptional urgency in this government proposal is understandable on the one hand, but, as we also pointed out in this report, when it has been presented as a matter of urgency, all processes of good governance and lawmaking have gone below where there has been the lowest bar. The committee considers this acceptable because of the urgency of the matter, but we note that, despite this, the government proposal should have been prepared, at least in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for the whole of foreign law, and with the central licensing authority, the Finnish Immigration Service, because, in the view of the committee, such cooperation could have avoided the ambiguities, contradictions and other problems that the government's proposal contained between the explanatory statement and the draft regulations and also within the explanatory statement. Although the situation is that so many borders are currently being closed because of this exceptional situation, we should now be able to cross and cooperate with administrative silos and border fences between ministries so that legislation is clearly better prepared through joint coordination and not by everyone sticking to it from their own point of view or from a narrow look. Mr President! There are indeed significant changes in this, which have been prepared quickly in committee. Thank you to the committee advisers, and also thank the chairman and the committee as a whole for the good manner in which they are dealt with in the Administrative Committee. Here, too, the entry into force has been reduced to October and the students have been included. This is also the basis for this Commission communication, which was not adopted until last week, on 30 March. After all, the Commission communication introduced provisions on this security of supply and the functioning of the labour market, but now, in a sense, we are disengaging ourselves from those tasks, the Commission communication alone, and the forthcoming regulation, which will then be discussed at the Council of State's Thursday session, will go through more precisely what areas this applies to. I already asked in the referral debate last Thursday that it applies to this sector of natural products. Today, there was still a debate in committee on the extent to which the agricultural and forestry sector, for example, is involved, and I now point out that I hope that this will now also apply to the fur industry and fur farming, and then to the fact that we will soon have the manufacture of various protective equipment in the field of health electronics in the last two weeks, and it is important that this should also apply to this issue, and not just to this issue of pharmaceutical and healthcare maintenance and repair. It is quite clear that Finnish agriculture needs its employees, and in recent years Finnish agriculture has become somewhat publicized and under the shadow, that grain does not turn into bread or milk for drinking without foreign labour, and of course there is, I believe, a very united view here in the Chamber. The agricultural, food and supply security sectors need this workforce quickly and quickly, but this government proposal is now just such a slight artificial respiration in relation to it, so we really need a lot of other measures to get this foreign labour force for Finnish food production.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u8	Mr President! In its report today, the Parliamentary Administrative Committee approved this government proposal for a fixed-term legislation aimed at facilitating the employment of foreigners legally residing in the country in areas critical to security of supply, regardless of their status in Finland. A large number of foreigners, especially those working in the service sector, have become unemployed after the government’s prescribed restaurants have been closed, and even before that, after the customers have disappeared. It is, of course, a good thing if such people are employed, for example, in seasonal jobs in agriculture. However, the Government's proposal does not only apply to agriculture, but also opens up jobs in transport, construction and industry for all foreigners legally residing in Finland. In other words, the government is bringing more labour into the labour market from within the country, while hundreds of thousands of Finns are involved in the negotiations. In the committee's deliberations, the Finns of Finland argued that a fixed-term law would apply only to agricultural and forestry work, where this whole proposal is publicly justified and where the need for labour is acute and real. Unfortunately, we were left alone with this performance. Mr President! The sector-specific consideration of the availability of foreign labour aims to protect the Finnish labour market from wage dumping through cheap foreign labour. For example, the Centre and the Coalition Party have openly called for the issue of access testing to be scrapped, but this issue has been more difficult on the left side of the Chamber due to, among other things, ay links. However, the government's proposal, which is now under discussion, means in practice a new nail to the coffin of the availability analysis. For example, a person who has received a residence permit on the basis of restaurant work or study can move freely to other sectors and compete with a Finnish worker at their price. I would also remind you that even the government itself does not think that a legislative amendment will bring significant help to agriculture, because the majority of foreigners living in Finland are either unable to find employment in these sectors or do not want to participate in these sectors. The actual seasonal workers and their entry will not be affected in any way by this proposal, as the conditions of entry will not change. The fact that seasonal workers are currently poorly available is due to reasons beyond our control, such as travel restrictions on us and elsewhere. Mr President! True Finns are deeply concerned about the coming harvest and the adequacy of the workforce on farms. That is why we have proposed that those who do not work as a result of the interest rate should be able to take up seasonal work without having any effect on their unemployment benefits. Unfortunately, there really was no support for this in committee. Mr President! I support Mr Purra's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u9	Mr President! This proposal is necessary, although, as has been pointed out here in the speeches, it is not enough to cover the current shortfall in seasonal workers. In that sense, we really need to think about all the possible ways of getting enough workers to plant spring and put crops on the ground at this stage, not to mention the stage when we are in the harvest, when this need for labour is even greater. I believe that it is reasonable that, in this situation, there should also be an extension of the possibility for these students and, above all, a greater number of these areas have been raised, i.e. all the essential work in terms of security of supply, if there is a situation where there is a need for labour. It is true that if the company has laid off or laid off staff, it will not therefore hire a new person to replace them, that they happen to have a foreign background. I may not quite have understood the logic of this objection. So if a company is in an economic crisis and there is no demand for it, then why on earth would new people be hired in that situation? In the sense that this law is still in force until the end of October, I personally do not see the danger of this type of objection. On the other hand, there is a good proposal for a statement which considers the alternative — and, as the Prime Minister has said here, it is being investigated by the government — whether it is possible that unemployment benefits may not really be affected if you apply for this seasonal work on farms. And with this proposal comes one such reform, which I hope will remain in force, and it is precisely that it is possible to move on from one employer to another, i.e. from one farm to another. Much has come from berry growers, long before this corona crisis, how difficult it is for different types of berry to mature, for example, at different times and for another farm there might be a shortage of berry pickers and at that time there is nothing to pick up on the other farm, these people have not been able to move from one farm to another if it has not been marked in advance in their application. And who knows how to know in advance when applying for seasonal work in Finland? If this section were to remain in force on a regular basis, I hope that the government will take a close look at this, because this is important for farmers. And perhaps again: here Mr Heinäluoma made it very clear to me that this has awakened us to the reality that our food supply and security of supply depend so much on foreign labour, seasonal labour, and on what it is about. After this crisis, we really need to get to grips with these things. The viability of agriculture must be restored and, on the other hand, when this social security reform starts on the road, the incentive traps of social security and unemployment security must be carefully investigated. After all, we cannot allow the situation to become such that we now find — just as we have noticed in some IT sector that there are no coders — that just like these in the basic food production chain we have outsourced the critical points. This cannot be a healthy and good development. Certainly now, in this time of crisis, there are a wide range of issues that need to be addressed and taken into account in the future. I am thinking here of these methods: wage subsidies, summer work vouchers. In some ways, I saw suggestions that one might think that when picking wild berries is tax-free, one might likewise think that picking berries on farms could also be tax-free. Well, of course, for schoolchildren and students, the limit of taxation is unlikely to be met immediately anyway. But could it really be extended to ensure that everything in the cropland is harvested and that our food chain is maintained in that way?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u10	Mr President! We are living in truly exceptional times, and the effects of the corona epidemic on the various sectors of society are and will be huge. We will have to react quickly to the problems that arise, as they arise, and, indeed, one of the acute problems now is the adequacy of the seasonal agricultural workforce, so that we can secure domestic food production during this harvest, but also in other critical sectors, we must ensure that work meets its perpetrators. At these times, the farms will have to make decisions about how much is planted and sown to ensure that the harvest is also harvested. The laws now under discussion allow foreigners who are already here to work in areas and tasks that are important for security of supply and the functioning of the labour market. As has already been shown here, this government proposal prepared by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy was dealt with quickly in the Administrative Committee. Since the referral debate on Thursday and the hearing on Friday, a great deal of work has been done in the Ministry and Parliament over the weekend to enable us today to adopt the amended proposal and report in committee. The changes made by the committee and the government to the proposal are intended to ensure that, in the event of an emergency, labour supply is specifically increased in areas and tasks necessary for security of supply and the functioning of the labour market. Certainly the common understanding of both the committee as a whole and Parliament is that these legislative changes will not solve this problem on their own. More means are needed, in particular, to ensure adequate seasonal labour in agriculture, such as the representative. Essayah, before that, pondered the matter. Mr President! We are talking about temporary legislation in the event of a state of emergency. It is now important to put in place all the means to secure, in particular, the seasonal shortages in agriculture in this exceptional situation. The report states that their own provisions on the employment of asylum seekers are not decided upon in the context of this proposal. It is now important to find urgently the means to make use of the input of all persons residing in Finland under these exceptional circumstances, and one such group is indeed those in the asylum process who are not currently included in this proposal. I agree with all the speeches that have highlighted the importance and security of supply of domestic food production, particularly in exceptional circumstances. Securing Finnish food production is in the interests of all of us and Finland as a whole, including that those berries and mushrooms are picked from the forest. This decision will contribute to its achievement, but it will certainly be necessary to return to this matter after a state of emergency and to look at it as a comprehensive entity at a later date. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u11	Mr President! As many colleagues have already said, it is important that food produced in Finland can be produced and eaten in Finland. The government's proposal is necessary, but, as has already been said in many speeches, it is questionable whether it will be sufficient to fulfil the need for which it has been given. Of course, the government's proposal has been prepared very quickly, and I think it is justified that we should now adopt this proposal as it is, but I also think it is justified to continue to look for the means that would indeed provide an adequate number of seasonal workers, especially for agriculture. True Finns have offered relief in reconciling unemployment security and seasonal pay for laid-off and unemployed persons. I believe that this is one thing that needs to be looked at quite unbiasedly and, in particular, whether there are elements in unemployment security, other social security and student aid that prevent it, in a way, create a backwards incentive for people to accept these jobs. But, as Mr Elo said earlier, the matter must also be looked at without prejudice for foreigners. This bill applies only to some foreigners in Finland. I do not have the number of asylum seekers, either who submitted the first application or who have submitted a re-application, in the case of a travel document which lasts for three months and six months if there is no such travel document. However, I think it is wasteful and inappropriate, especially in the context of this crisis, in which we live, that this group of people have been excluded from the opportunity to do the work that this bill is about. Indeed, I hope that further preparation will be made as soon as possible, with more stones being dug for translation, in order to ensure that food can be produced in Finland and that domestic food can be eaten.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u12	Mr President! It is important that the continuation of work in Finland is secured and, in particular, sectors that are critical for security of supply receive the necessary workforce. Similarly, it is justified that all persons currently living in Finland and legally residing in Finland should be able to work to support themselves in a crisis situation. As has already been heard here, we are not opposed to seasonal workers, because they do not burden our society, but this needs to be taken into account in the future. We cannot be at the mercy of a foreign labour force on such a vital issue. This will certainly not be the last emergency, and that is why we must also learn from this crisis for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u13	Mr President! This proposal proposes a temporary amendment of the Aliens Act and of the Act on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of working as seasonal workers. The proposed law allows all legally resident third-country nationals to work in areas that are important for security of supply and the functioning of the labour market. These include health professionals, seasonal workers in the agricultural sector, transport staff, people working on vital or otherwise essential infrastructure, the food industry and the various factors involved in care. Mr President! I also support the proposal made by Mrs Purra. In the course of the committee's discussion, the Finns saw that critical areas should be narrowed considerably more strictly in the agricultural, horticultural and forestry sectors. Furthermore, the amendment of the law should be limited to foreigners who are already in the country and who have been laid off or laid off as a result of the corona epidemic. Mr President! In this debate, the Finns of Peru have argued that a person who is currently laid off or unemployed could work in these seasonal jobs without losing the unemployment benefit and social security he is entitled to, and this would have been a very important issue and a signal that work is worthwhile and that, when laid off and unemployed, he can also earn and go to work. Mr President! I would like to raise here the issue of health professionals, who are also covered by this law. It is very important that we continue to demand — despite the fact that we are experiencing a corona crisis and certainly that there will be a large shortage and shortage of staff in the healthcare sector — education, experience, skills and language skills. Last autumn we were able to read that a record number of nurses and people in the care sector were in negotiations because it has been so long with the social welfare reform, and now we have to regret the fact that where these nurses are, who have lost their jobs in the negotiations. Will they now come back in this crisis to fill the staff gap that already exists and what will be in the future? Very big questions. In my opinion, the first priority should be to find Finnish workers to perform care tasks. At the same time, I would also like to raise the issue of what is known as dangerous work, which is already enshrined in collective agreements: in such specific situations, it is possible to pay the carer when there is a need for labour and work is challenging, even dangerous, with more work, which means more pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u14	Mr President! This proposal is reasonable and absolutely necessary. In fact, I have been asking the social media and those who are familiar with the matter whether there are good reasons why there are not always similar standards, and I have not yet heard very good arguments as to why a foreign worker, for example, cannot change the industry and the employer can improve his position. Of course, many people here are probably right that this may not be enough, and perhaps it would be worth thinking about flying in from countries such as Ukraine whole aircraft people who would initially be quarantined on the farm for some time and then start working. However, I would now like to draw attention to this whole, as it has been argued here that people from Finland should be employed in agriculture. As such, I am pleased to hear that there is at last an interest in offering work input in this Chamber as well. In general, I have heard a lot of protests that there are no jobs here at all when I have tried to keep these incentive problems on the table. We have had, for many years, a situation where the number of unemployed people according to the Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs has been between 200,000 and 250,000. At the same time, we have had an alarming shortage of labour in agriculture. Well, what changes would this situation have to be made from the fact that it is now just an argument that we have to do something about these problems and get a job in Finland, when, when this crisis is over, just as little do Finnish young people want to be in these low-wage jobs as they have done so far? Besides, now that it is claimed that we should get a job in Finland, ladies and gentlemen on the left as well as on the right, these age groups are just so small that when we calculate the needs of the industry and the needs of the care workers and the needs of agriculture, they are all much bigger than what our young age groups really are. In other words, if we have not done so far, we will not. These proposals here, which have now been made, only show the magnitude of this incentive problem. When Finns also hope that Finnish workers will be employed in agriculture, they will not even think that this could happen within the framework of the current social security system, but will propose an extremely expensive solution that would mean that the whole social security system would be the same, there would not even be an adjusted daily allowance, which would already be possible. Congressman Juvonen said it would be a signal that work was worth it. Well, that would be a pretty strong signal that working in Finland is not worth it. If a person who works in agriculture has to get paid in bribery about entirely from public finances, it now tells a great deal about the fact that it really is not worth it. This is revealing in that way. The good question here is why this foreign labour force and what the True Finns call despicable cheap labour should in general be disdained and disillusioned when we do not have enough labour in our own country. It is a normal historical development in all rich countries that foreign workers are taking over low-paid sectors — not because people are discriminated against at home, but because young people in the home countries generally do not want to go into these low-wage sectors anymore. Little by little, this is progressing in the taxi business, cleaning business. In agriculture, this has gone very far. I think someone here said that it is terrible that we are at the mercy of these foreign workers. After all, it would be far worse if we were only at the mercy of our domestic little children. Then we would hardly have agriculture in Finland anymore. After all, it is wonderful that we are part of a global economy in which people can come here and produce these excellent, well-respected Finnish foods. That is a prerequisite for the existence of agriculture. And even if people talk contemptuously about cheap labor, if someone wants to come here and do work that a Finnish youth no longer wants to do, who loses? Well, at least not the employee himself, because he has shown by his own choice that it is better for him. If there are no employees in Finland – it has been clearly demonstrated, I too have been told many times that there are too few wages, that there are no Finns wanting to do so – then these facilities will benefit and the Finns will benefit when we get those strawberries from those farms. After all, they would remain on the ground, they would not be planted, they would not be collected if there were no such foreigners. This is normal, good development. There is no longer Juhani Jukola and Timo Jukola, there may be Dimitri and Pedro and Juan and someone else. What's wrong with this? It is a prerequisite for Finnish agriculture. It is extremely expensive, that is to say, for young people in important education to be assigned conscripts, whose study delays are extremely costly. We must therefore conclude from this that, after this crisis, we will make it much easier to meet the labour needs of agriculture and other sectors from abroad. Here I would like to return to the fact that it is worthwhile for everyone here to consider why such a standard could not always be valid. — — — — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u16	Mr President! Agriculture is, indeed, suddenly in difficulty, because this planned seasonal worker cannot enter our country because of the corona virus epidemic and the pandemic. The interest crisis has underscored the importance of self-sufficiency in food production, which is of course a good thing for agriculture, and, on the other hand, that agriculture, which is built on foreign labour, is surprisingly vulnerable in the face of such a crisis. As far as agriculture is concerned, we are already in a hurry to take these decisions, because it is important to have faith in the future, that the planting and sowing issues that are currently under way should be carried out. It is only worth doing if there is credit that the crop can also be harvested. It is indeed a question of ensuring Finnish food production, our national security of supply. It has been clear in the debate around this government proposal that this alone is not enough to compensate for this need for seasonal workers. For example, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities stated that without the right to work, the possibilities for those in the country to find employment in sectors with labour shortages should be explored. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry also stressed this broad view of future projects as to what further action is to be taken by the government to address this issue. This proposal for a law before us is in itself a good direction. Indeed, it makes sense to allow an employee to change his employer within the scope of the current work permit. In future, I am indeed in favour of involving other people who would like to work — such as asylum seekers, for example, who are now hindering work. Indeed, there are people in this country who do not have a valid residence permit, but are not currently able to leave the country. At the same time, we have critical work to do in terms of security of supply. I think that every means must be used. Of course, the employer always has the final decision to hire a person. We also need encouragement for those Finns who are currently without work, but who, for example, live in cities and who may even have something as simple as walking about how to get to these jobs. Indeed, we need to consider incentives to go to farm work, making it as easy as possible. Security of supply and the resilience of agriculture to crises is certainly a debate that should also take place once we have overcome this acute, difficult situation. Today, the Academy of Finland has published policy recommendations for post-pandemic care, and the Academy stresses the importance of the diversity of agricultural products, the circular economy and energy independence — and this is what we need to consider. For example: The Natural Resources Agency has studied the diversification of Finnish agriculture and found that, for example, the cultivation of special crops such as bull beans, quinoa and buckwheat is not currently in line with consumer demand. In the long term, therefore, we must strive to diversify the range of our agricultural products. But before that, the government should indeed continue to work on solving the acute crisis in agriculture in terms of access to labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u17	Mr President! In my own mind, I have reflected on these ideas and thoughts about what this has caused us here, and I am on the same lines as Mrs Talvitie in that this has shown that, in the course of this emergency law, we did not all work in a sufficiently effective and good way and that the importance of this issue has not, in a way, been highlighted at the moment in what we have the power of this preparedness law and the aim of putting this country in good shape in a good time and taking care of the urgent issues in a good and responsible manner and working with the ministries, but let this be a lesson for us now. And he should advise the committee and, indeed, thank the committee for the fact that we have come to an agreement and a common view on this issue to a large extent. In order to ensure this security of supply, in order to secure domestic food, I believe that these changes are necessary at this stage, and I am sure that more will need to be done in the future. On farms where there is a need for berry pickers and agricultural professionals, for workers on the livestock side, this raises the question that we have not really been able to prepare for this situation in any way, because the training of agricultural professionals has fallen short of what is required. And then, on the other hand, we need to think about the level of earnings on which the pay situation is going on there: what will then replace it if, for example, in a contract negotiation, there is a situation where the wages of farmers would rise and be monitored more closely so that there would be no underpaid work there? That means that we also need to get more money out of this house and through EU legislation so that it spins, so that it is precisely these Finnish, high-quality, good supplies that remain competitive in price. This is what's gonna happen. Then, on the third point, I wondered about these non-agricultural occupational groups, which has been included in the urgency order: I think in a little like Mr Sari Essayah because of the fact that the contract law has put people on notice or lay-off, this obligation to take back workers who have been laid off or laid off, and thus the employer must take them back and offer them jobs first and foremost before taking foreign workers to work. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u18	Mr President! This bill is certainly to be welcomed, and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities also went through this very thoroughly, and it is quite obvious that this is necessary in this situation. In fact, my first comment on this issue is that I have wondered in particular at the speeches made by the Finns on the fact that this nine-point list, in which sectors this is in force, is too long. I personally think quite the opposite of that, namely that it is of course true that some sectors are more important than others in terms of security of supply, but even after this corona crisis is over, we have to live with something. If we have driven down shipyards and construction and other systems during that time, then it is such an economic drink, since there are already enough problems coming — the Ministry of Finance may have predicted an additional debt of 20 billion to the State — that there is absolutely no reason to push down those areas that are not prevented by this disease and where we have a lot of foreign labour. In fact, I would also like to add this matter of fur farming, which will, of course, come to fruition in the autumn — it would also be extremely important to be involved in this. Mr President! Then, if we go into this acute problem of agriculture, above all with regard to horticulture and also berry picking, then we will certainly need a wide range of means to resolve this issue. This is one part of the solution to allow those foreigners who are already in Finland to move more freely from one sector to another, and, as Mr Vartiainen said, it may also be an improvement in their standard of living for some. Of course, it also needs to be accompanied by the fact that, at least in a targeted way, we must also include those who are currently abroad but who are unquestionably experts in the tasks that are needed and who have evidence that they are capable of doing so. In other words, I do not believe that this whole labour deficit can be resolved by domestic means. Of course, I consider it a priority for us to have as many domestic workers as possible, and here the messages are a little contradictory: some entrepreneurs who are contacting say that there is little domestic interest and others have more positive messages that there have also been domestic factors but that it is important that there are also those who have done this work in the past. As far as these incentives are concerned, I also see that instead of what the Finns of Finland have suggested, it would be smarter to leave through this adjusted allowance. However, such a change would be necessary if the adjusted daily allowance at the moment mainly concerns part-time work, so that there could also be an adjusted daily allowance for full-time work. It would then mean that a person who has been laid off from his normal job would be well advised to accept this agricultural work, if it is available and if he is otherwise suitable and able to do so. On the other hand, on the student side, one way would be to give up this income limit temporarily or significantly increase its income threshold, so that this would not, as it were, prevent students from taking up these tasks as a whole. Yes, we'll have to put this kind of precision punches here on the incentive side as well. Of course, even in those things that are done, you have to keep your senses involved. I would stress that there is not one solution, but a quick solution is needed for this, and I believe that the solution is that it must be successful in all three areas: to make the foreign labour force in the country better targeted at these labour shortages, on the one hand, to get some people from abroad safely in and on the other hand, and, most importantly, to get as many domestic workers as possible in this sector as well as those who are now in a position to enter the sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u19	Mr President! I have to say that I am curious as to why so many areas have been placed on this list. As an expert in the transport sector itself, I have no idea how the transport sector can even be on this list, because the situation is that there are currently quite enough unemployed workers in the transport sector from their own point of view. The problem, which is why there are so many unemployed there, is, in part, that you may not be qualified enough to do so, so I do not really understand how a waitress who has now become unemployed can do the work of that transport worker, because probably one per cent or per mil of them have the required cards to do the job, let alone be able to do the work with the skills they need to do. So here too, the security of supply is all right, but in reality it is pointless to be there, because there will be no security of supply situation for foreigners who are already here to fix that problem at all. Security of supply should definitely continue to be supported, i.e. we should be able to improve our self-sufficiency considerably, and what the Finns of Peru suggested earlier that this issue should not affect unemployment subsidies could in some way begin to be considered in some form — not in the same way as what was now offered to this acute situation, but, for example, in relation to the harvest of 2021. The problem with all kinds of employment cases is that a carrot is given to the employer, and in the low-wage sector it should actually be given the carrot to the worker that it would make sense to accept the work. Mr Vartiainen has just blunted our proposal quite well, but my abacus does look different, although Vartiainen claimed that our proposal was expensive. I do not understand how it can be more expensive than the fact that the same group is still covered by unemployment benefit and we from Ukraine will then fly here the workers to do that job. Now I did not understand the pearls of Mr Vartiainen's abacus: how is it cheaper to do it like this? Yes, I would see that we are still giving those workers unemployment benefit, leaving it with an airplane full of Ukrainians out here and paying it the same salary — not as we as a society, but as a farmer paying it the same salary — for that machined Finn. How was this more expensive than the proposal put forward by Mr Vartiainen? That is what I would like to hear from Mr Vartiainen, perhaps later. In any case, the situation is quite acute. A great deal has been said about how much is currently a problem in rural areas as to whether crops can be cultivated and whether it is worth growing, i.e. whether or not the harvest can be harvested, and that would be an extremely fast option. This is where Mr. Satonen suggested an adjusted daily allowance. If we take the line that we are now going to do some sort of system here, then in reality those strawberries have already dried up in the fields if they have even been cultivated. Now is the time for quick decisions, and everyone should realize that we should make decisions really quickly. And the government’s proposal would be good — nothing in itself — if it had been put in the areas to which it should come. If there was a rescue here, but the problem is that we can only get a handful of it from here for our acute need: 16,000 would be needed and a few hundred from here. Now we have to find fast solutions and something that will also increase the volume of the whole supply. There is no other problem here than that, alternatively, we either leave the 2020 crop uncultivated and unpunished or do something about things, but now there is no time to be busy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u20	Mr President! This proposal is now about the possibility for those with a foreign background who are legally resident to also do these seasonal jobs. After all, statistically, as has been said many times here, there are 16,000 seasonal workers specifically in agriculture, and, if I understand correctly, they are practically all of a foreign background. Why foreign background? Because wages are poor and jobs are heavy, and then the population with a foreign background has been more prepared to take up these tasks. If there is a child of criticism in this motion, it is this preconception that now, when it comes to heavy, poorly paid jobs, those who are of foreign origin in the country are these people who would be able to take part in this point. I would prefer to say that all citizens legally present in the country are encouraged to do these seasonal jobs, not just those of foreign origin. I understand that there are restrictive obstacles and, of course, this is something that is now being passed by this legislation, and other Finns can participate in these. I agree with these views, which have been expressed here, that now that many social innovations have come into play in connection with the corona virus by mistake during this process, there is a matter of teleworking, the digital education of schools, and this would be an old tradition which could be useful again: traditional, good summer work for students, young people, many people, could now be the one that could undoubtedly fill this challenge in agriculture, agriculture, where seasonal workers are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u21	Mr President! This proposal will therefore help to alleviate the shortage of labour in the agricultural and horticultural sectors, but other proposals are urgently needed from the government in order to encourage planting and sowing, for example, on strawberry farms or on other farms. Without sufficient labour supply, companies will reduce their investment in the coming summer harvest, and the failure of the harvest season will even lead to bankruptcy in many farms, because special farming is very capital intensive and there will be no economic buffers on most farms. And if companies went bankrupt again, their effects would be reflected very far into the future. The problem is that many other countries are in a similar situation. Sweden, for example, has already expressed its concern about the food shortage that is threatening, and according to the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), the corona virus is a threat to global food security. In other words, we can see in the future if we are not able to deal with this now, not only with these facial masks and protective supplies, but quite simply also with food. The exceptional situation can cause a serious and long-term market failure in international and domestic food networks, and therefore we can expect and expect urgent solutions from this government's ongoing debate. This problem is therefore felt not only in the pockets of farmers but also in the availability and price of food in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u22	Mr President! I would like to say briefly to this end that I think it is extremely important that we take care, however, to ensure that these rules on the playing of our labour market are also in force under exceptional circumstances. We still have access testing and we stick to it. This proposal has no impact and no meaning, and this certainly does not mean that we are dismantling it in any way. Then I would like to say that it is also important that, during and after this situation, we take care of the controls and monitor the impact of this government proposal on this situation, both in agriculture and in other areas. I think that we too can learn something new about later policy making and legislation. It is important that this does not create the impression that in some way the rules of the labour market or the question of availability are being called into question. In exactly the same way, the working conditions of these foreigners must adhere to what has been agreed at the moment. And that of course means that there, so to speak, the native Finns as well as those with foreign backgrounds are basically from the same line of play, from the same line of action to these jobs, so it will then be at the employer's end the solution of who goes to that farm and to other jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u23	Mr President! Perhaps at this point it is good to remember what is actually being discussed here and what the facts that change here are. We are therefore talking about the temporary possibility for seasonal workers to change employers or to change sectors in this crisis situation. So it is just that we want to enable people in this country to change employers or to change sectors. It is quite clear that this alone will not solve the whole problem of agriculture and the garden sector at the moment — as I have said at the committee meeting, I think this is a major issue — but this is one of the essential elements. We do not have the means by which, with one change of law, we would change the whole situation, but we need more than one weed for this whole rock. It's urgent. We have a situation on farms in Varsinais-Suomi where decisions are being taken at the moment whether to plant or not, and yes I really hope that a message will come out of this hall that you plant, and we will do our part here so that that employee power will then be available throughout the season. We need a wide range of measures. It should be noted that this change is only valid until the end of October, but it is a crucial part of this overall. At this point, I cannot fail to mention the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry that the most critical tasks are the spring work already under way in the field of gardening. The Coalition Party has mentioned this fur industry a few times, and the first thing that comes to mind is how security of supply involves our fur farming, but it essentially means animal production and animal welfare. We must ensure that animal welfare issues are also taken care of in these areas in this situation. In animal farms, the lack of foreign seasonal labour can create serious situations, and certainly none of us wants to be involved in increasing them. Nor can I fail to mention the fact that the MTK explicitly stresses that, according to reports made over the last few weeks, there is already a great and immediate need for seasonal labour in farms and horticultural enterprises — so there is a very great need at the moment. In its own opinion, the MTK has expressed its view that it wishes to make every effort to promote the availability of domestic labour and has set out a number of ways in which access to domestic workers can be done, but these are the other measures. I do not understand that, in this matter under the heading, the Finns of Finland require the Administrative Committee to make changes under unemployment benefit. I do not believe that the Administrative Committee is the kind of committee that can take a stand on these issues of unemployment benefit. I wonder if the people of Peru think it is right that a worker who is currently in permanent employment in the garden or on a farm should be placed in a position of inequality in terms of his or her salary, in that he would now be employed by an employee who would receive both unemployment allowance or loss of earnings and pay, when this permanent worker would then actually receive a lower salary. That's kind of an unusual setup. Well, this proposal does not change the question of availability, as Mr Heinäluoma said there, and it is good to remember at this point. Mr Semi also said that if there are already laid-off people on the farm or in the garden, they cannot be traded there for cheaper foreign workers. We have these laws before then. It is obvious that we need many different measures to solve this problem. There are certainly a number of them coming up, but at this point I cannot fail to say that we have been in this Chamber today to take a further decision that there will be temporary derogations from some of the regulations of the annual holiday law and the Working Time Act and the Employment Contracts Act. These regulations concern critical sectors such as social and health care workers, but the use of these exceptional laws may also be very necessary in the agricultural and food industries to ensure our food supply. If our food supply does not work as a whole, many other things will not work. We need bold and swift decisions in many sectors to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u24	Mr President! I would like to add to that speech in relation to this foreign law and the visa issue and to this monitoring of legislation. As far as the foreign law is concerned, the committee is proposing to remove Article 213(b) of the Aliens Act from this proposed government proposal,as it is not applicable to this law. Work is therefore based on a residence permit issued under the Aliens Act, regardless of its precise purpose, and this regulation does not interfere with residence permits issued under other laws. The committee's position means that, for example, a person on a tourist visa in a country cannot work within the meaning of the temporary legislation now being enacted. It has also been pointed out above that the committee does not consider it justified to extend the right of asylum seekers to work. Moreover, illegal residents are not suitable for the scope of the exemption legislation now being enacted. Indeed, the Administrative Committee made it clear that this proposal is separated from this Commission communication and related areas, and these areas are now, exceptionally, regulated by the Government Decree on Thursday and not by a ministerial decree, as is often the case with regulations. The Administrative Committee also considers it necessary to monitor closely the impact of the legislation in question and not to provide at this stage for the specific legislation in question to remain in force beyond the end of October this year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u25	Mr President! On the left side, most recently Mr Rantanen, has come this way to point out that we do not take into account the fact that it is not possible for Finnish law to change Finnish employees to a cheaper foreigner, for example. That's not what this is about. This process does not usually go this way, but it does so in such a way that these sectors, which are able to come from abroad and which are offered such a labour-supply effect in this global movement, are not normal or are not the same as in other sectors. This is noted, for example, in Helsinki and the metropolitan areas very clearly, i.e. in sectors with strong foreign representation in the labour force, wages do not increase at the same rate as elsewhere, even in the same sector across the country, depending on where access is considered and where they are not. It is quite true that our legislation regulates matters, for example, that there should be no underpaid pay, that there should be no abuse and so on, but unfortunately these are not of great significance in this case. Last today, the editorial of Helsingin Sanomat explains how significant exploitation has been observed at Helsinki construction sites, at the Olympic Stadium and so on. The fact that this is regulated by law does not really change that. In particular, I took the floor to reply to Mr Vartiainen. We in the various fora hold this debate from time to time, and these same things always arise. The Finns have never claimed that this is not an incentive problem. We can consider this incentive problem in two ways: either the wage in these sectors is too low compared to social security or social security is too high compared to wages. I know what Mr Vartiainen's solution to this is — it is, of course, what is involved in social security — but we do not really see it this way. True Finns also feel that reforms and reforms should be made in social security and, for example, in the labour market, but they will only be possible when we have a system in which it is not possible to always have a new, so-called more competitive labour force in the country for certain sectors. If Mr Vartiainen's own position were to be such that it would be in danger of becoming a person from abroad who works more hard and cheaply because he wants to stay in the country, perhaps that view would be different. This affects a large number of sectors in Finland, a large number of employees and others. It's worth understanding, even if you're not there. In addition, the Finns of Peru are opposed to the rupture of the class society, the fact that in our country a certain group of people who have received a certain position have been trained is Finnish, and there are also people who come here who have the task of always serving us at a little lower price. This process is not good. This is not humane, and it is not part of the welfare society. As far as these abuses are concerned, the Avi and Victim Support Finland have said that every time they carry out checks in sectors with a high number of foreigners there are irregularities. Far too few resources are being put in place to deal with these, but every time we find out there are abuses — and this is the very precise legislation that regulates this issue in Finland, which has very high standards. This is not so simple, and it should not be naively approached, not by believing in the total infallibility of market forces and by simply acting through labour supply and demand. We have certain things that must be taken into account if we do not want our society to sink into a state where it can always be said here that there is a shortage of labour if we do not have enough cheap labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u26	Mr President! I will quickly address a few points that have been raised here: Mr Räsänen spoke about this concern in Sweden, the food shortage. To this I would like to point out that the Swedish authorities responsible for this region do not recognise any of this. Livsmedelsverket or this myndigheten för beredskap, the local Security of Supply Centre, are not at all concerned about the food shortage. If this google, it will be very difficult to find hits for the livsmedelsbrist word in Sweden. This is, in fact, a perception that has arisen in the Finnish media. Sweden is not concerned about this. Mr Laakso asked whether it would then be cheaper not to pay full unemployment benefit in agriculture to the unemployed who are working. Well, he would be right if it were so that, with 100% certainty, this unemployed person would do nothing else: there could be no work other than either being unemployed or doing agricultural work. However, the labour market, as Mr Satonen rightly said here, is operating somewhat in the face of the crisis, and we also have a lot of other sectors where there is a need for labour, which means that it is economically irrational, with a very expensive bribe, to direct it to agriculture in particular — yes, it must be at a somewhat more reasonable public cost. Congressman Purra opened a pretty big question here. Let me just say this basic point: while not being naive, this issue has been studied very much in economics, and when Purra discovers the high proportion of immigrants and the correlation between low-wage sectors, the main reason for its correlation is that the fact that the sector is a low-wage sector attracts labour from outside, not the other way around, because in a market economy, however, a very strong mechanism is that wage levels are determined by productivity. And the fact that we have foreign taxi drivers and cleaners is not because they have somehow replaced the Finns. After all, it is easier for employers in the labour market in general to recruit from their country of origin for many reasons, and everyone who is active in the labour market knows that the high proportion of foreigners in general indicates that it has been difficult to obtain labour from their country of origin. There may be exceptions, there are abuses, but this is the big picture: when you study the impact of waves of immigration on the wage level in the country of destination, it is usually very small and temporary. Such results have been obtained from the Nordic countries as well as from Florida. However, it is the big picture on which such a policy should be based. If we did not have foreign workers, it would not be the case that these strawberry pickers would have higher wages, while consumers would not be willing to pay more for that strawberry when, fortunately for the consumer, there are also Belgian and Dutch strawberries and Spanish strawberries there. Then the strawberries will only be left unproduced in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u27	Mr President! A very interesting debate, and I must say it out loud, the pandemic has already revealed Finnish myths here, which we very much maintain with regard to Finland's top reserve, Finnish security of supply, Finnish safety, hygiene and cleanliness — they have now begun to decline quite strongly in the beginning of this crisis and during the crisis. So look the truth in the eye: we were not prepared just as we imagined we would be. The issue here is the situation of seasonal workers and the problems of agriculture. I looked at the hourly wages of a farm, and I am not surprised that, in this situation, we find it difficult to get Finns to work there: the hourly salary for those 18 years of age and 16 years of age and 6,97. Do you think this is a pretty strong incentive trap? Let's talk about solutions. The Finns have brought out different solutions here, and now, of course, we have to look at everything on a very large scale. It is worth looking at what kind of labour reserve is currently in this country. We need to make the most of the Finnish labour reserve, and it can only be found when we go into close cooperation with students, students or high school associations, with the Finnish Student Union, and see what kind of people are now in that space after the matriculation examination. There's a lot of people waiting for the military service to start, they don't really know what they're gonna do in the future. I'm sure they will, but they need to be hijacked for this job quickly by encouraging and targeting marketing. We have a strange idea that Finnish expertise, the Finnish workforce, must be boosted here by imported labour. Should we not, as a matter of priority, make use of and train these people in our country today? Mr Purra's speech was excellent and the amendment is excellent and I support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u28	President! I drew attention to that situation well described by Mr Purra in our agriculture and in the use of foreign labour and how such capital owners behave. They take advantage of these Finnish entrepreneurs in various construction sites, in the metal industry, who are quite involved there, and this is such a moral question, how to manage and then keep those salaries decent and at a good level and pay all the fees that are included in it. Yes, these cases — when I myself have been in the construction industry, I know — there are many of them. What is a weakness in it is this lack of supervision, because if we then consider who is watching it, they are usually the pay lines of the Building Union that travel on weekends when officials are not able to work there. This is the situation. But this law, which we are dealing with here, does not make it possible to do so. With regard to layoffs and dismissals, we have these articles in the Employment Contracts Act which determine the obligation to take back and to provide work for those laid off and laid off first. It's such a real fact. Then there is the situation described by Mrs Ranteen. If you think about how Finnish parents behave when a child quits school, it starts from getting a good profession that you can earn, they never mention agriculture there. Working in agriculture has always been a father to a son. It has, in a way, been such a calling profession for those who do it, and therefore there are those who are left behind in the pay levels, which should be significantly improved in order to stimulate the desire to apply for agriculture. I know that about my own children, they're terribly interested in agriculture, but not with it... — They consider that there is a small salary, they do better by, for example, working at a bakery or, as a veterinarian, as a veterinary assistant and other things. They're better off with those salaries than with that farm income. But they would love to be working on agriculture, especially when one of them seems to have these shepherd dogs and he likes that agility and working with shepherd dogs anyway. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u29	Then the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u30	Mr President! To this last speech by Mr Vartiainen: I myself have read so much economic studies on this subject that I know that most of them have been made not only in Anglo-American countries but also in countries where there is no such inclusive and good social security as in Finland. The situation will then be quite different, for example, in terms of the impact of an increase in the number of immigrants on the overall wage level. But in Finland we know that we are a welfare system and we have social security, which is not only generous but also available to practically everyone who arrives here, and it has a clear effect on the fact that this is not true in countries such as Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark. This can be seen from ten years ago, for example, in the wage development of certain sectors of Uusimaa, all of which can be found in Statistics Finland's data. This is not true that the high number of immigrants in the sectors would not affect the overall level of pay. This is a very idealistic view of how we can always find people who want to come here and work and it will benefit us all and them there. This is a kind of internal version of the Chinese phenomenon, that is, the idea that there is always something more competitive. We know that the first factories left here, although now there in China, since then they have moved elsewhere, then they move to Africa, they go around the ball. I don't care what it's all about when the labor force gets here. We no longer come from Estonia, not from the Baltic States, not from within the EU to these specific sectors, but from third countries. They are moving on again, and they are moving on again. I understand the main message of this very market-liberal idea, and that is that we can go around the whole world and there will always be some more competitive workers here. What, then, is the last African country from which we will still have workers who happily want to come here and work? This is the opinion of Mr Vartiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u31	Mr President! We must take this comment from Mr Vartiainen that Finns are not prepared to pay more for domestic products. Now there is no example of strawberry, but it is about milk: A study done by Yle about a year and a half ago tells us that about 70 percent of people would be happy to pay 10 cents more to a litre of milk if it were sure to go to the primary producer. Indeed, the unemployed are also prepared to pay for this. And what would that mean to a dairy farmer? The increase would significantly stabilise profitability, but above all the farm would be able to make the necessary compensation investments. At the current level of profitability, all these things will not be done. So, yes, the Finns are willing to pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u32	Mr President! I do not want to prolong this debate much, although this has been interesting in itself, I must say. I, too, have tried to study economics a little bit, and in fact I supported myself as a teacher of economics before I got here in Parliament and know that once you've got here, you've already lost the title of expert, and that's why I'm not going to do this. But I would just like to say briefly that, yes, my point of view is strongly that, if you go through this line of the Finns, it will at least mean that everyone in Finland is poorer than they are at the moment, and it will result in the goods and products that we are eager to produce here are certainly more expensive and that people will therefore have much less money at their disposal. Well, at least I wouldn't wish we were on this line right now. Unfortunately, these arguments are rather poor in this debate. Yes, we must understand that in world trade, things are mostly done where they are most effective in manufacturing, and if they are abandoned, then it will have enormous significance in what the welfare of this whole world is. It is then a different matter that, from this security of supply point of view, there are certainly some things that are wiser to do more in the future in Finland than has been done in the past, but if we change this big picture, then the result is far from positive for this nation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u33	The debate has now been moving away from the actual issue for a few speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u34	Mr President! Mr Vartiainen said that people would not be prepared to pay more for those domestic strawberries than they are currently paying for, since cheaper strawberries can then be imported from Spain or elsewhere. This simply shows that this problem is in the whole world order, in the globalisation of the economy, and this is not a national problem in Finland. It is unnatural that it is possible to transport food here from Spain or from other parts of the world, which is cheaper than food produced in Finland, and, of course, we should try to do something about this either through national or EU-wide protectionist measures. Among other things, Mr Vartiainen, vegetables are so cheap in Spain because illegal African immigrants pick them up, but surely this cannot be a goal in Western society. The fact is, unfortunately, that people are paying too little for many things at the moment, and that is why it is so easy to market the message of globalisation to people. Representative Satonen said that if it were up to the Finns, we would pay more for everything and be poorer. Well, I think it is better for a person to pay a little more for strawberries than for his own work to get a little cheaper strawberries from the store with that social security money. In my opinion, this is a little untenable thinking.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u35	In the course of the debate, a proposal on the basis of the discussion has been made. The vote will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session resumed at 6.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u36	The sitting adjourned at 6:20 p.m. and the second item on the agenda are now resumed. In the general debate, Riikka Purra, supported by Jussi Halla-aho, has proposed that the grounds for the debate be taken as the basis for the objection contained in 1.-4. a draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u37	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u38	Mr President! Indeed, this was already covered in the referral debate last week. — It is extremely important that, in this way too, the State tries to help employers, that is to say, to postpone these payments, and at some point they will be taken back from the employers' sector, and it is important that every means must now be put in place to facilitate the economic situation in the companies and businesses. As such, in some small companies these are very modest sums, but, as I said, it is now really important that all the means should be used and seen to enable the burden of payment to be postponed. Fortunately, many and very different types of means have now been found. And, of course, the most important thing is that bills do not come into payment, that they can be carried forward, or that direct funding is obtained. Various opportunities to take up debt or other similar few entrepreneurs at this stage are of great interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u39	Mr President! Of course, it is clear that the most important thing in this corona crisis is to succeed in protecting human lives, and it is clear that health will pass the economy, but we also need a functioning economy and an economic base, so that our health services, for example, can continue to function. It is important that the government has now brought a rapid pace of assistance to the economy of our country, because, as a result of measures taken to prevent and slow down the spread of the corona virus both here and here in Finland and in the world and to combat tasks, the Finnish economy has come into a situation which is a major threat to the business environment, to employment and to the livelihood of people. In this situation, we must now be able to maintain as many businesses as possible, as many jobs as possible, as many as possible. The number of layoffs has grown rapidly since the first half of March and some companies have also had to rely on layoffs. As a result of the pandemic situation and the related restrictions, the position of employers is exceptionally challenging, and in order to mitigate the impact of the situation, it is now necessary to facilitate the position of private sector employers. The proposal for a temporary reduction in employer's earnings-related pension contributions by the labour market central organisations, which was the basis of this proposal, is important and very good. The reduction in the insurance premium therefore relates to the employer's share. We are talking about very significant sums, but the reduction in contributions is still a moderate measure in proportion to the total accrual of occupational pension contributions. In addition, the payment reduction will be compensated by interest payments in the coming years. The most important thing now is to focus on this moment so that we can secure the work done by companies and the jobs they will provide in the future. It is therefore very good that a fixed-term reduction in occupational pension contributions can contribute to facilitating the position of private sector employers in a challenging situation as a result of the corona virus pandemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u40	Mr. Speaker! This proposal is very welcome and one of the many measures we need to save Finnish businesses and jobs in this very exceptional situation. However, as colleagues have already said, the impact of this proposal on an individual company will be quite moderate and, as Mr Essayah has pointed out, this reduction will in fact be closed again in the coming years by means of a corresponding increase in payments, so in practice it will be a temporary relief of this kind which will be granted to companies in this situation. Mr. Speaker! Now that the government is meeting tomorrow at the spring spending limits debate, we must expect and also demand that this Chamber be given immediate access to direct action to facilitate the situation of companies in this very exceptional situation. We already have more than 350,000 people in business procedures, and thousands of Finnish entrepreneurs are currently in trouble as to how on earth they can pay their bills, how they can keep their business going, when turnover has completely collapsed and prospects have disappeared. And in this respect, borrowing is no longer a practical option for many, but direct, concrete support measures are needed, which have also been discussed in this Chamber for a long time. All the same, this measure is a good small practical example, but very much more is needed to avoid mass unemployment and the wave of bankruptcy that lies ahead if these concrete, massive, heavy measures are not taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u41	Mr President! This is the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and the purpose of this bill is a temporary reduction of the employer's premium by 2.6 percentage points between 1 May and 31 December 1920. It is proposed to reduce the compensatory portion of the annual contribution of pension funds and pension funds employees in accordance with the Pensions Act and the compensatory portion of the annual contribution under the Maritime Pensions Act accordingly, and to compensate for the increase in technical provisions resulting from the reduction of the contribution by increasing the employer's insurance premiums and by increasing the compensatory part of the annual contribution in pension funds, pension funds and the Meri-mies Pension Fund between 2022 and 2025. So what is now being reduced will later be recovered. Mr President! It is very important and good that the government has taken various measures to facilitate both entrepreneurs and these laid-off and unemployed people in this corona crisis. This corona crisis is not only a health crisis, it is also an economic crisis, and we must now do everything we can to ensure that the waves of the recession of the 1990s do not have such an impact. We must take proactive action, and this is one of them. It is quite clear that in this crisis we are looking forward to how we save people in Finland from this virus epidemic, but also how we save companies. It is clear that, by the time the government programme is fully renewed in the course of this crisis, these employment measures, which we have considered to be tasks, have also run far away. Now we have to think that we are going towards reconstruction, and after the corona crisis at some point makes it easier — whether it will still be this year, next year — we will do everything possible to get people back on their feet, companies will get on their feet, but also ordinary people, people who have lost their jobs will get on their feet. They are important actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u42	Mr President! The interest-rate crisis threatens not only to bring the infected into bed and intensive care but also to bring down healthy businesses and permanently destroy jobs, and that is why this measure, which we are now dealing with, is also needed. According to this proposal, the reduction in the employee's pension contributions under the Pensions Act will reduce this year's income by more than EUR 1 billion, which in itself is a large sum, although indeed moderate in comparison to the problems currently faced by companies. On the other hand, the increase in technical provisions resulting from the reduction in contributions will be compensated by an increase in employer insurance premiums between 2022 and 2025. This too will not be an easy task, so in any case the spending limits debate is expected to continue to work to save businesses and solve this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u43	Mr President! This corona crisis is an epidemic that is very impressive, economically very impressive, but this kind of strong crisis situation is also a source of unexpected challenges for the renewal of society. I say this as an introduction because this small relief in occupational pension contributions, a small relief as a whole, comes as a measure against employers in itself, and it is worth remembering that these pension funds, for example, last year in 2019 grew by a record share of over EUR 21 billion over one year with a real profit of 11.5 per cent. The funds have grown, so it is certainly a resource there to give up a little in these earnings-related pension contributions, despite the fact that we know that, as a result of this corona crisis, there has been a collapse in the international stock market, which means a sharp fall in values, in liability values. However, there is such a great deal of resources there that, as in 2018, when EUR 17 billion was lost in solvency in pension funds and it was also seized in a few years, there is definitely room for manoeuvre in this respect. It is also worth remembering that the Finnish statutory pension fund system is the largest in the world in relation to national products. No country in the world has a statutory pension fund system of this magnitude, which means that we have the means to meet it. But what is the innovation? It is not the fact that earnings-related pension contributions are slightly received, but it is the fact that this bill, the regulation, also includes the idea that these customer benefits are now being compromised. This is a strange addition to the Finnish pension system, which is completely unique also in the world dimension: the largest employers are transferred a little of their pension funds in accordance with the preferred scheme — it can be opened more closely in some other context — in these customer credits, which last year amounted to 450 million, which means that we are transferring pension funds to employers on such a scale, and that is what we are now talking about. This is the innovation that we would now have to force on when, however, there is a critical debate on pension funds. We are having index discussions, there are pension security debates here, but we are not opening up the fact that we can afford to move between EUR 300 million and EUR 500 million per year in the form of customer benefits out of employment pension reserves. This is why the Finnish pension system, although very financially sustainable, is the most expensive in terms of its administrative costs in the world. This is because we have many pension companies and, secondly, the costs of these customer benefits are so high. So here we have a big puddle in another context to discuss more deeply, but right now, as a result of this corona crisis, just like digital leaps in education and teleworking experiences in working life, we have one such dimension where we may realize that these customer credits are an unnecessary item. They can be eliminated in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u44	Mr President! Again, this government proposal talks about one of the many temporary measures that are now being taken because of the epidemic situation in Finland and the economic consequences of it. This proposal is based on a proposal made by the social partners to the government on 18 March on measures to support businesses, employment and the safeguarding of income under these exceptional circumstances. It can be said that this is very much based on consensus. This is therefore part of a broader set of measures proposed jointly by the organisations. We are all well aware of the very challenging situation of companies and, therefore, of workers in these exceptional circumstances, and this is not the fault of any company or company worker. Therefore, solutions to the situation have been quickly sought. A fixed-term reduction of the employer's contributions by 2.6 percentage points can now help to facilitate the position of private sector employers. It is important that the payment reduction for the rest of the year 2020 should be compensated, in my view, for a sufficiently long period of time between 2022 and 2025. As I said at the beginning, this is only part of what is being done. It is quite clear that in a situation like this, where there is uncertainty as to how long this emergency will last, companies are in severe distress and quick action is expected and answers to many questions. They come from here gradually, and this is just one small part of the whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u45	Mr President! There are quite a few people who get confused when we talk about the total pot and assume, somehow, in this debate too, that this is something that has been assumed, even today, in the previous debate, that this would be something of a revolution. Congressman Virta said that this is a large sum of money. I can tell Mr Virra that last weekend I calculated this effect on a close company. That's EUR 16 25 cents per employee per month. This really doesn't matter to anyone. This isn't gonna save a single company, not a single one. I must say that I am somewhat surprised at the extent to which there is a consensus here, and this would have been shown to be in favour of cooperation, which is a hand-out for companies. I have to say that I do not even understand why a worker would even oppose this, because this is only a temporary reduction in payment, which will be compensated back in the future. In principle, however, this would be really, in the end game, one could say, the companies themselves, because the companies that are now receiving that support will in a way be saved from paying for this if they go bankrupt this year, because then next year they will have to pay for those who are still standing. Here, in fact, there seems to be a lack of understanding now that these are lily stalks for this real problem. This seems, of course, to be seen in a big pot, a terrible amount of money, but in reality this has no effect on the survival of any company. That is why this spending limits debate will play a very important role so that we will receive the right help that companies need in the future. For over 20 years I have been an entrepreneur, quite a few things done in it over the years and perhaps also had to do because I have never really had the money to do it as a motivation, but the fact that I have gone on to do the things I wanted to do, and those company results and things like this have now not been so flattering ever. In any case, however, I have had a lot of contact with different companies, with entrepreneurs, and especially with the SME sector. In my Facebook group, less than a week ago, I put in a survey — 4,000 Facebook friends there. I went to see if there was any company in my friends, which has been saved by the government’s current decisions and remains dry. We haven't found any yet. One company did put Yv in it and put the name of the company, and then I asked it how they helped, but it was the opposite and they're all laying off at the moment and there's a hell of a pain on top of it anyway. So, really, this is where the spending limits are going to end up. I am trying for the government, the representatives of the government party, to throw a catch on the fact that we really need to find something other than this EUR 16.25 per employee per month. These aren't gonna save those companies. Now we're either gonna have to save those companies, or we're gonna have to do the bankruptcy wave and mass unemployment, and that's good. With these measures, we have only the latter option. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u46	Mr President! After all, this proposal comes in principle from the social partners, and it seems to me that it is our job to confirm this proposal. I agree with Mr Laakso that I do not believe that this is such a great help for businesses. In my opinion, the Finnish pension insurance system is somewhat different from that of many other countries. I am referring here to Mrs Kiljunen's speech on these customer benefits. I agree that we should look at this pension insurance system a little more closely at some point, but not in this context. Let us return to it at another stage and then look at it further. In Finland, it is also unusual for an entrepreneur or employer to pay 16 and an employee 8 per cent of the pension insurance contribution, and this is where the employer's premium has been reduced. Now that employers lay off and lay off workers, that is why their pension insurance contribution is already falling substantially, because it is paid on the basis of the gross wage paid to employees. This is now brought into this sort of extra percentage discount then for the rest of the year, which perhaps some companies will help, but there are many companies that do not basically need it. Not all companies are doing well, but everyone's getting this. If this had gone all right and had been done on top of the last one, it would have been made up of an application procedure for those companies that need it, but there is no time for it now, so now we paint it with a large brush and it will be given to everyone. But the comfort is that this is actually being paid back in the next few years, and, as Mr Laakso said, in this big picture I do not believe that this is terribly important. There is a need for more drastic measures, and they will certainly be forthcoming. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u47	Mr President! Representatives Laakso and Juuso are certainly right that this individual measure does not in itself save any companies in Finland. I'm sure they won't. This is a question of larger flows: this is where different types of action are being sought from different sectors of society, which are being taken against both companies and people. Of course, this is a problem that is testing all of us together, and this is one small stream in that larger stream. Representative Laakso has conducted a poll on his business friends, asking how many of these government activities have now benefited so much that he would have saved his business. Now, however, we live in a market economy and in a society such as that when such a violent crisis occurs, the government's actions in themselves will certainly not save any company. We do not live in socialism when the government takes ownership of everything and assumes responsibility for everything, but we live in a market economy with operators at risk of entrepreneurship, and unfortunately these measures will not help if everything stops. Now all we have to do is try to find relief, soften this crisis, that we do not completely drift against the wall, and this is the background. What is essential in this system of ours is that we can agree on matters between employers and workers on the labour market. It is now valuable in this matter that this has been discussed together, jointly agreed, rather as we did in this Chamber, that we should decide together on these legislative initiatives that the government will take for us, and clearly we have a degree of unity here in the vast majority of these matters. Similarly, it is now great that the various sides of the labour market, although in many situations they are at odds, are working together on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u48	Mr President! As Mr Kiljunen said, this proposal is one part of the government's economic efforts to minimise the harm caused by the corona virus. Above all, all these policies are designed to safeguard the functioning of society and the economy in the face of the challenges posed by this virus, and various proposals have been made, as we all know, over the past few weeks. This is where the Government proposes a temporary reduction of the employer's earnings-related pension contributions by 2.6 percentage points in 2020. But that is a good thing, but it is a necessary thing in this storm. It is certainly not clear to any of us here that entrepreneurs and businesses are in trouble. However, I believe that the government has taken a strong step forward, for example, with these much-spoken direct support measures, which will certainly help — for their part — make the load easier, but it is clear, as Mr Laakso well said, that the whole will, of course, be determined by all the measures we are taking to help entrepreneurship and businesses move forward. Thus, in general, Finnish companies and entrepreneurs have in many ways supported Finnish society, and yes, now is the time for repayment. I believe that both Parliament and the government have crisis awareness, and exceptional times are now calling for extraordinary measures, and they are being done right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u49	Mr President! As several Members referred to above, I would just like to point out to Mr Laakso that I myself understand that this is a whole, and this is certainly not a single way to save any companies. Even as an entrepreneur, I understand the plight of many entrepreneurs at the moment. I am sure that each of us knows an entrepreneur, if not another, close to or far from where there is really great concern at the moment, the stress of living, the family's livelihood, the situation of his own employees, that is quite clear. But we need many ways, we need them quickly and we need them through cooperation — then we need to hear from different parties, take their views. In this case, the proposal from the social partners has been taken up. In a bad situation, the government has certainly made the best possible decision, and this is one way out of that package. It is good that the opposition is blackmailing the government, that is what we need. We need more means because we certainly all share the same view that we need each and every one of these companies. These companies and these entrepreneurs have been doing valuable work for years. It must also be borne in mind that there are many new companies that may have only started work in the last few years, so that they may not yet have the strength to deal with this kind of crisis in any way, and they must also be taken care of. But I would like to emphasise that this is precisely the one piece of the big package and I am sure that the government will do everything in its power to keep as many companies as possible and to overcome this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u50	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u51	Mr President! Indeed, the aim here is to give shipowners in difficult economic situations flexibility in paying their earnings-related pension contributions and the possibility of a three-month deferral of the application if the shipowner needs it. The proposal is one part of these measures aimed at facilitating the situation of companies. We have many other private sectors where such a matter as the transfer of due date is governed by secondary legislation and regulations. In that sense, it could be said that this is a bit of an exception, that we are dealing with such a delay here in the form of legislation, but this is certainly another, once again, one part of these measures, which in itself are to be supported, and perhaps, hopefully, one of the shipowners can help at a moment's notice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u52	Mr. Speaker! This proposal goes in the same direction as the one discussed in the previous paragraph, which seeks to facilitate the conditions under which the maritime sector operates in this difficult situation of interest rate crisis. Mr. Speaker! Sea transport is very critical for the security of supply in Finland, our country. Even under normal conditions, around 80 per cent of Finland's imports and about 90 per cent of exports come through these maritime transports, and in the midst of this crisis, it is particularly important to ensure and secure these essential maritime transports. I think it is important that the Security of Supply Centre has also contributed to ensuring that these important maritime connections remain open so that the goods can travel, so that we can also bring important supplies here to Finland. Indeed, the Security of Supply Agency has set aside EUR 45 million for measures that have been agreed directly with shipping companies to operate these lines, despite the fact that our major shipping companies, or indeed all shipping companies alike, are in a very difficult situation at the moment, because in practice passenger transport has ceased and there are also major deficiencies on the freight side. I think this is also good in this House to point out that the Security of Supply Agency has done a very important and good job in this regard. Mr. Speaker! These measures are equally aimed at ensuring that we will continue to have ships under the Finnish flag and that we will also overcome this serious crisis by ensuring that we have maritime transport, and it is therefore very easy to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u53	Mr President! This is a report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and the proposal proposes to amend the Maritime Law. The aim of the proposal is to give shipowners in difficult economic situations flexibility in paying occupational pension contributions. According to the proposal, at the request of the shipowners, the seamen’s pension fund may transfer the due date of the contribution under the Maritime Pensions Act for a maximum period of three months. The Korona virus is felt on land, at sea and in the air, and the shipowners are now also in trouble. Passenger transport has stopped and there are also problems in freight transport, and who knows how long this sector has stopped, too. One can only imagine that even if the corona virus crisis, the cases of infection and the epidemic are diluted, people still think of the fears and thoughts about whether to go anywhere, and how much travel, including shipping, will be reduced so that people themselves decide not to go on a trip. So it is very important that, in this situation, we also take account of the situation of shipowners. Everyone needs a lot of encouragement and relief now that they're doing well. This too has been examined unanimously in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which means that the Finns have supported this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u54	Mr President! The interest crisis has highlighted Finland's dependence on global trade and effective logistics, and in particular on maritime transport, which we are talking about here. Approximately 90 per cent of Finland’s foreign trade is transported by sea. Well, this proposed change would allow shipowners to extend the payment period for pension insurance, which is a welcome proposal, but I hope that the government, in its spending limits, will also consider as one of the measures for economic recovery the possibility of abolishing fairway charges, which would then have a more significant impact.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u55	Mr President! Seamen's pensions are separate legislation compared to other occupational pensions. Of course, the content of this is quite the same as that which is now coming against the shipowners with this relief from occupational pension contributions. You can say here to Laakso and Juuso, referring to what happened earlier, that no shipowners will be saved, but here is one thing in the big picture, where even small acts matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u56	Mr President! This proposal also leaves the labour market organisations and is part of the package that is now trying to make things easier for companies. What surprises me is that we have to provide for a three-month payment period at the level of the law. I have once worked for a pension insurance company and had these payment negotiations with entrepreneurs, and they have been moved without law, as I recall, for longer than three months. But perhaps now the seamen's pension fund has different rules that it must be regulated in this way at the level of the law. It's not that big of a deal, but when you want something like this, why not?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u57	Mr President! The first thing you need to say to Mr Kiljunen is that you are absolutely right; this saves even less than what you just said. Now, I think the problem is a little bit that we are stuck to the sledgehammers again. Just now, Mr Juuso said that these three-month transfers can be made normally, at least here in the countries, these things. If we consider that the pension contributions currently going on for three months will be passed on three months, then we all know at this stage what the real situation is. It will be even more difficult to pay them in three months if you cannot pay them now. In other words, there is legislation here too, there is a proposal that no one is sure to oppose, but again a lot of time is wasted on us actually getting something done. Here, too, it would be much more sensible, as in the previous paragraph, which was passed on, that this three months, all payments, should be passed on to be paid from next year on into a further payment period. That would really give us some kind of concreteness. Now, practically, this is of little practical use in this terrible tribulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u58	Mr President! I am just right to support all sectors in various ways now. Of course, it is always the case that we have to think about whether someone is a bit like the so-called mascara movement, that it has no proper effect, and then there is a huge piece of work on these legislative matters. Well, we're here to hold them off, that's all right, but I think it's worth thinking about all of them now in a little longer perspective, because the truth is that we've only gone a couple of inches ahead of us, and it's really like a bigger thing that a lot of people understand now, and that's why I'd like to see a little bit further away. Here, Mrs Räsänen spoke on the fairway charges, and that is what I was a little excited about. In my time as Minister of Transport, it was quite clear what these bus charges would mean and what if they were removed. I would like to see this government also assessing whether there is anything to be done on the fairway charges. It could be a more effective way of doing a lot of things. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u59	Mr. Speaker! Just a little bit more to the end. Mr Räsänen and Mr Risikko made very good speeches on the problem of fairway charges. After all, we have had a system in place in Finland for several years, which has halved the number of fairway charges, and this practice is now continuing in this year 2020, and we are currently considering the wider work on the renewal of fairway charges. I would see, as Mr Risikko did here, that even though the collection of fairway charges was intended to cover the costs of icebreaking, it could be a well-founded way of supporting Finnish shipping. In fact, I would like us to be able to discuss this further in this House, because we are not talking about very large sums of money in fiscal terms, but we also know that these costs will eventually come on the back of shipowners and ships, and in that respect I would see that further clarification is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u60	Mr President! I do not want to open a new debate — we need to move forward, a long, long list is still things. But then if we start talking about abolishing bus fares, we'll talk a little different. Now, crisis measures are being taken all the time, which are temporary in nature, and this should not be used now to carry out structural reforms. However, of course, it is possible for the government to consider postponing the payment of fairway charges at a certain point in time and so on, and then possibly bringing some experience into some further discussions, but to go on to propose that fairway charges by sitting down — it may be too far-reaching at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u61	Mr President! I am a member of the Council of Presidents, and I try to follow the idea which we have discussed there too, that we do not have statistics as it were, but when I listened to this debate in my room, I wanted to say that this amendment to the Maritime Pensions Act, which has been discussed by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, is an important part of the rescue package for our maritime transport. Of course, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has not included fairway charges in its report. They belong to us, the Committee on Transport and Communications. I can tell you that this is also a point on the rescue package for this maritime transport, and we will certainly return to it in the next few weeks in this Chamber. I would like us to stick to this when we discuss the issues of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health so that we do not confuse the content of the Committee on Transport and Communications with this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u62	Mr President! I do not think this has been confused, but we are talking about how we can help with the corona, and here are just some good suggestions for what can be done here. Mr Räsänen opened this debate on these bus charges, and it is absolutely a matter for the Committee on Transport and Communications; it is your role, but here we are thinking of the ways in which we can keep our business alive and also our shipping. There have been more pointless speeches here than these, [SunaKymäläinen's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u63	Mr President! It is quite true that this is the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but I personally do not see this debate on fairway charges in any way as confusing the matter because this is where the aid is directed specifically at the shipowners. In other words, although this has been discussed there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the aim and idea is precisely to obtain financial relief for shipowners through the flexibility of these occupational pension contributions. It is a good thing to hear from the chairman of the committee that we may soon be able to receive some positive news about these bus charges — in the meantime.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u64	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u65	Mr President! So this changes the unemployment fund law by giving remote access to the cashier's meeting, and this is certainly a time for many not only in unemployment funds, but also in very many types of limited companies and associations this spring's headaches, i.e. what to do with the annual meetings of these various actors. After all, this general meeting is being held remotely in the Share Company Act, and in the sense that it is quite logical that it is now possible to attend a cashier's meeting at a distance by means of technical aid, for example in the context of widespread infectious disease. In this connection, when I have examined the matter from the perspective of the registered parties, there are few two types of guidance, for example, from the party councils. It has been said that the party meeting is as if it were an annual meeting for a registered party, when it would be impossible to keep it at a distance, so that it should be organised in accordance with the rules, while the party council has indeed received two kinds of instructions and said that others feel that it can hold it in such a way that at most there is a chairman and one participant at that meeting, and then another kind of legal advice has been received and it has been stated that it is not possible at all. In that sense, it must be said that, at the moment, it seems that, in the case of party law, for example, there does not seem to be uniform guidelines when you go asking questions from both the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Justice, but if this were to happen during this spring, when there are perhaps many parties ahead of them, there would be some clarification. But indeed this bill itself must be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u66	Mr President! Indeed, as we heard, this government proposal proposes to add to the Unemployment Fund Act a provision on the possibility of remote participation in these meetings as well. In addition to the cashier's meeting, technical assistance could also be used at the meetings of the representative body and the delegation, which is perfectly justified, especially in this situation where we are now. Technical aids have become more widespread and are a widely accepted way of attending a meeting in the field of working life. They are also often even a more effective and faster way of meeting — at least this is how I have seen myself in the last few weeks of my work. I believe that in the future there will also be more value and use of teleworking opportunities in working life, so I would consider it extraordinary if this distance were not possible at this point. This is therefore an important and good reform, which will also update the flexibility of working life to the present day, and now, with a fast schedule, it is what we need.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u67	Mr. Speaker! Indeed, the proposal provides for the inclusion of a provision in the Unemployment Fund Act concerning this method of participation in the cashier's meeting. This proposal has been widely supported and I think it is necessary and good that this change should be made there. Mr. Speaker! Now that we are discussing this cash-flow legislation and the situation of unemployment funds in general, a few brief comments in relation to this situation of interest rates, which this proposal is now strongly linked to. We know that very many Finns are currently in a difficult situation. We have more than 350,000 people who are involved in the procedures, and the future of many people is currently very unclear and grey because of the fact that there is no certainty that their jobs will continue. We also know that unemployment funds are already congesting, and the number of these applications will increase very strongly in the coming weeks. Unfortunately, these measures, which have now been taken, are not enough, because unemployment funds have been faced with this unprecedented flood of applications. The Finnish largest unemployment fund, the JRC, has reported that it will face two years of work during the month. Despite hiring new handlers, it takes a lot of time to deal with the application congestion. The JRC estimates that all applications will go beyond the turn of the year. This is, as we know, extremely harmful for these people who are waiting for a decision on their own benefit. It is clear that a person cannot wait so long for his unemployment benefit when he is already on hard times. The concern lies not only in your own livelihood but also in your family’s livelihood. Not everyone has the savings to live on when regular incomes are cut off. People's livelihoods must be ensured in this exceptional situation. This uncertainty about the timing of receiving unemployment benefit also makes it difficult to plan your own economy further. It is important that the date of payment of daily allowances should be given as realisticly as possible. This would also help to better assess one’s own spending. If these application processes for unemployment funds continue to stretch, there is also a threat that Kela will become congested on the basic income support side. However, applications for income support should be the last resort, but now there is a risk that more and more people will also have to rely on income support if this decision goes further. I hope that the government will continue to work actively to ensure rapid treatment of unemployment security, and in this work the cashiers must also be involved very strongly. I believe that in this Chamber we share the view that this situation must be resolved, and we also understand that many of these unemployment funds have not been able to prepare for such a huge flood of applications as they have faced at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u68	This proposal really concerns the way in which the cashier attends the meeting, and in this final evening we will try to stick to the matters of the title.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u69	Mr President! Indeed, this proposal proposes that a new provision be added to the Unemployment Fund Act on the way in which the cashier is to attend the meeting. The new article would provide for the possibility of remote participation in a cashier's meeting. This increase would be made for the sake of clarity and would enable the organisation of a cashier's meeting using technical tools, for example, in the context of widespread infectious disease, and that is where we are at the heart of it. Mr President! This is the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and very quickly we have received many different proposals from the government. This too came quickly and was also dealt with quickly, because this is a technical change, but it is a very good one when we think about today, but also about the future. In fact, the distance meetings are very good and workable and should continue to be increased and should also be encouraged by the actors involved. They will facilitate participation, reduce mobility, create synergies if we can say so in this situation. In this corona crisis, even in municipal decision-making, we have wondered all over Finland how, among other things, the council meetings are being held at the moment, and it would be very important that this possibility of remote participation should then also become an opportunity for municipalities to organise themselves. Mr President! Mr Marttinen, you have made a good speech. It was about unemployment funds and how they manage and how resources are available, and I myself have been concerned. I then asked a written question about the ability of TE Offices to serve customers, among other things. How could these remote participation opportunities be used, for example, to fill out applications or meet a customer there? Now the person who is laid off must register and contact the TE Office, so there will be huge traffic. This performance was a short hymn of beauty and importance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u70	Mr President! I will only draw attention to the fact that this law is made permanent. This is part of the digital leap which, thanks to the corona epidemic, as one of its positive effects, will be taken when the possibility of remote participation remains a permanent practice for meetings of the unemployment fund law, the unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u71	Mr President! Finnish society is currently experiencing a revolution in telework. On this scale, distance work has never been carried out in this kingdom than is being done right now, and the fact that a permanent decision is now being made on the possibility of telework for unemployment funds, too, seems appropriate, especially if it makes it easier when there is also an explosion of pressure on unemployment funds. We have a huge number of layoffs in Finland at the moment, exceptionally high, and there is enormous pressure on both Kela and the unemployment funds, and that is the biggest question right here, not this telework as such, which is the content of this initiative here, but the fact that the unemployment funds must now be made to work, that people do not fall into a complete gap at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u72	Mr President! Indeed, this presentation is well within the spirit of time. It therefore allows for teleworking to be held at the cashier's meetings. This is, of course, a good thing, and I hope that this same logic will also apply to the general meetings and other numerous regular meetings in the spring. If there is something good in this corona and you can mention it, it is indeed an opportunity for such a multi-spatial and site-independent work and meeting and hobby in general. That is what the popular movement I represent, for example, has long been calling for. It is always a good thing for Finland in such areas that people can work, meet and live where it is good for people to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u73	Mr President! I myself have been working at a distance for years and I remember that when that remote work opportunity from the employer's side was brought and then started to be done, there were many of these little practical details that had to be considered twice, for example, whether it was kept on the screen all the time or not, because if not, it was not known who else was there in the background room, family members or other acquaintances, and then also whether the headphones were held or not. Some meetings are confidential, some are about privacy issues, and such details are really important. As such, this participation in meetings at a distance is today’s day, and this corona crisis is now accelerating this, and this is certainly coming to many other areas and many other meetings. As such, I find development to be good and it will make it easier. And that also saves the climate when you don’t have to drive that car back and forth so that it fits well into the current government program. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u74	Mr President! In remote work, many have noticed how current online connections, especially mobile broadband, are insufficient and unreliable. In the case of remote meetings, you often have to disable the video so as not to block the lane, and not even the sound moves from one person to another without problems. Even within the same building, the functionality of the connection may vary, not to mention the blind spots in densely populated residential areas or cities. This, if anything, would raise a debate on the need for fixed broadband connections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u75	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u76	Mr President! This law on the temporary limitation of the enforcement of the conversion penalty and the unconditional imprisonment of the fine is necessary. When I read that committee's report, I see that the committee has carefully considered these options and wondered whether there would be another way of achieving the same results. In other words, this too is intended to prevent the spread of infections. After listening to the news from the world, time in many lands has left the direction that thousands of prisoners have been released. In other words, those people who are already in prison have left prematurely to be released. This issue has also been raised and stated in this committee’s report: ‘In order to release prisoners from prison, the proposal for a reduction in the number of prisoners by temporarily limiting the number of prisoners to be admitted to prison may, in principle, be considered to be more acceptable and better And that is certainly the case, for example, from the point of view of the victim of crime. Of course, there is still a limit to what type of crime and the penalties that have been imposed on it can be done in this way. In addition, the committee had also looked into whether additional facilities could be put in place for prisoners to live in or increase the number of persons placed in controlled test freedom or even transfer foreign sentenced persons to their countries of origin. Well, the latter or the last of these options is of course not possible. When almost all the countries have closed their own borders, they are hardly going to accept the prisoners. The introduction of additional facilities has been identified and it has been noted that there will be a shortage of resources, i.e. there will then not be a corresponding increase in the number of staff. In that sense, I believe that these options have now come to the best possible conclusion. However, as has been well pointed out here, this does not in any way give up these penalties or make them easier, but they will then be suffering in their time, but in this situation, it makes sense for the overall benefit of society to put off the punishment of certain crimes until 31 July.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u77	Mr President! We know that this virus does not respect borders, it does not respect rules or laws. It spreads where there are people and where the conditions for its spread are most favourable. In view of the high level of filling of closed prisons in Finland, it is quite clear that the uncontrolled spread of the virus in prisons without adequate preventive measures is likely. At its worst, it could mean that prison staff would fall ill and that the capacity of prisons could not be safeguarded. Even before this corona crisis, our prison system has faced many challenges. In addition to the high level of filling, there is also a shortage of trained staff, for example. In exceptional circumstances, we must now be prepared to make exceptional decisions in this area as well. The solutions are not easy and would certainly not be made without being felt to be absolutely necessary on the basis of a sound assessment by the experts. A number of measures have already been taken to reduce the risk of the spread of the virus in prisons. The Government's proposal before us aims to reduce the number of prisoners and the number of prisoners entering prison on a temporary basis in order to ensure the proper and safe execution of prison sentences in the event of an outbreak of corona virus. Mr President! Although the virus epidemic has not yet caused significant problems in Finnish prisons, we can say with the experience of other countries that the situation can get worse and change very quickly. Indeed, in some countries, as we have already heard, prisoners have even been released prematurely to ease the situation. I strongly believe that everything must now be done so that we do not end up in that same situation where we are forced to release prisoners who sit in prison. According to the motion, therefore, as a result of exceptional circumstances, the entry into prison is temporarily postponed for a maximum period of four months. Of course, the penalty will not be waived and penalties will not be allowed to lapse; enforcement will only be postponed. It is of the utmost importance that this should only be done in the case of those waiting for prison sentences who can be estimated to be able to wait for this sentence to be carried out free without a clear risk to others. I therefore believe that the government's proposal is necessary and worthy of support. However, it is worth noting that the consequences of the corona epidemic will be visible for a long time to come. They will also be reflected in congestion and even longer court and prosecution procedures due to the high number of court proceedings suspended due to the epidemic. It is therefore also important to seek solutions that can effectively dismantle this sum, but in such a way that everyone's legal security is maintained. On the other hand, it is important to find these solutions in order to ensure that this legal security is realised, and it is urgently necessary to clarify the possibilities for the judiciary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u78	Mr President! It would now be important for us to have clear instructions and an order for the services of the Criminal Sanctions Agency. It is essential to receive a clear message from all units about preventing the corona virus in prisons. The bill must also take account of the judgment and its length. For example, serious violent crimes and sexual crimes must not prevent immediate imprisonment. The application may be limited to the conversion penalty and to unconditional sentences of less than six months. In addition, there must be clear instructions for prisoners on the APB. Prisons must be carried out by prisoners who have remained on leave, those who have left the open institutions, those who have already carried out the sentence. What picture does the system give of security if the police reach out to the wanted prisoner and he cannot be sent to execute the sentence that has begun? The premature release of prisoners should not be put into practice. A prisoner has been convicted and convicted by the judiciary. As a priority, the Criminal Sanctions Agency must minimise the activity of prisoners and their mobility in society. It will prevent the spread of the virus into prisons. There are so many restrictions in society, and that must also be the case in prisons.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u79	Mr President! This proposal is indeed a temporary restriction on the enforcement of the conversion penalty and the unconditional imprisonment of the fine, and I must admit that I went through this proposal when a referral was held, that I was, in principle, somewhat sceptical about what this proposal was seeking. But here I think that more Members have made a good point of the fact that the committee has done a very thorough job, which has been going through a number of different aspects. And as Mr Virta has already pointed out here, it has already been pointed out in this report that the regulation only applies to those who come to prison for freedom, who, as the Court has already assessed in more detail below, can expect the execution of the sentence to be carried out free of charge. I think this is a very important comment on this proposal, because when people follow this matter and look at what has been decided here, there is also a very solid basis for this. To conclude, Mr President, the corona virus is a serious virus affecting all functions of society, and it will then be quite clear that its effects will also extend to our prison facility. I consider this proposal to be a well-prepared and well-founded proposal in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u80	Mr President! This proposal proposes to introduce a law on the temporary limitation of the enforcement of the conversion penalty and the unconditional imprisonment of the fine. Under the proposed law, no action to commence the enforcement of the conversion penalty or unconditional prison sentences would be taken and would not be subject to new reporting periods until 31 July 2020, but then the person with the sentence will have to carry out its sentence. Mr President! These are the so-called finers who have some relatively small crimes and crimes on their hands, and then they are serving their sentence as a prison sentence. This government proposal has been carefully weighed in the Legal Committee and has received support there. This government proposal temporarily restricts the number of prisoners will minimise the spread of the corona virus epidemic in prisons and within prisons. According to the study, this corona epidemic has not yet caused problems in prisons and therefore it would not be desirable for the corona virus epidemic to end up in prisons. It is important to limit the number of prisoners entering only to the so-called mandatory prisoners. These are mainly convictions of less than two years for non-serious crimes. The risk of the offenders being guilty of new crimes has been estimated to be small, that is to say, there are no dangerous repeat offenders among those who are not now facing the sentence. By issuing the judgment, the Court has already assessed that there is no risk of self-recording, i.e. waiting for the execution of the judgment to take place. This proposal has been estimated to have the effect of temporarily reducing the number of prisoners from 300 to 400. Mr President! With concern I always follow the news of the world, and indeed in some countries prisoners have been released prematurely to ease the situation, and this situation should be avoided in every possible way, and that is hardly what is going on in Finland. Instead of raising the risk of an epidemic spreading and a situation in which prisoners have to be released earlier, we should now postpone the detention of prisoners who await the execution of the sentence in freedom. This measure is not considered to be relevant to the general security of society and it is not seen that the behaviour of those on leave waiting for enforcement would materially change as a result of this short postponement. Mr President! According to the study, it is not possible to facilitate the situation by, for example, introducing new facilities for prison use, because there are always their own requirements. Human resources are already scarce, so even under normal circumstances there would not be enough staff to control new prisons or facilities, and the situation will deteriorate even further if the staff become ill. It is very important that we also protect the staff working in prison from the virus. Mr President! Finally, this report by the Committee on Legal Affairs takes the view that the situation and spread of the corona virus epidemic in prison conditions should be closely monitored and, if necessary, new measures taken as soon as possible. It is very important that if the epidemic can possibly enter the prisons, we also have information on what will happen there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u81	Mr President! This proposal aims at a temporary reduction in the total number of prisoners during the corona crisis, which can, of course, curb the epidemic within the prison and also reduce possible unrest due to the fear of corona. I would also like to draw attention to the consequences of the measures taken to deal with the corona crisis in prisons: the drug routes have been cut off when the borders of the countries have been closed, and also because of the corona virus, the permits and family reunions are no longer granted. In practice, drug transfer to prisons has been interrupted or at least reduced, which can lead to unrest within prisons, and it is of course better to keep the number of prisoners as low as possible. Some 60% of prisoners are drug-related, and the use of drugs in prisons is unfortunately common and widespread, which means that significant quantities of drugs are available in prisons. At the moment, we are in a situation where these routes of drug imports have been cut off, which, of course, in the best case scenario can even help people to be freed from and weaned from drug use, but on the other hand it can also cause unrest. This proposal must be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u82	Mr President! Indeed, the government's proposal must be supported, because in the course of a few years these fine prisoners were not even convicted or sentenced, and the rest of those convicted — not of fine prisoners, but of petty criminals — are already waiting for a verdict, which means that it is only a matter of being postponed for a few months. It goes without saying that this too will not necessarily prevent the worst scenario if some kind of corona epidemic or pandemic can spread to a prison, but in any case this will at least contribute to the maintenance of the prison staff and its system. So this is indeed a recommended government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u83	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u84	Mr President! Indeed, this is a welcome proposal to ease the plight of entrepreneurs and, in this situation, in particular, the possibility of unemployment security for the entrepreneur himself. What is really new and unusual about this is that we do not need to stop doing business now, but when, however, this corona crisis makes it very difficult, then there is an opportunity to apply for unemployment benefit. The committee has done a good job here, and it also states that this labour market aid is not subject to any waiting period or to any need-tested consideration, but, on the other hand, it is also not possible to introduce provisions on partial labour market support. This change is temporary, but it must be said that there is once again one of the shortcomings of the corona crisis, which we could say is now emerging, and that we would like to start thinking about this, for example, in the working group on social security reform, and to wonder whether we could continue to have this unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs under certain conditions. At the moment, the only possibility is for certain entrepreneurs or for a very small group of entrepreneurs such a so-called amicable daily allowance, but this would be extremely important, and when we have a huge number of these small entrepreneurs in Finland who, indeed, have very modest entrepreneurial income, this would also be a very good reform after this crisis. But at the moment, a fixed-term and an important and good opening is laid down.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u85	Mr President! It's great that we've heard of entrepreneurs now. The temporary amendment to the Unemployment Security Act is welcome in this current exceptional situation and helps many of our country's small and medium-sized enterprises. We still have to make sure no one falls between the supports. The economic situation of many entrepreneurs has been dramatically hampered by interest rates, but according to this proposal, the entrepreneur does not have to stop the business and the labour market subsidy of more than 700 euros can be paid without a period of self-responsibilities and a means test. If the normal conditions for granting the aid are not applied provisionally, the payment of the benefit will be speeded up. It is therefore important, in line with the committee's report, to take into account the fact that sufficient resources are being made available for the TE Offices and Kela to manage the increased workload. The next step is to inform entrepreneurs immediately and clearly about these support measures. The list of activities to which the proposal relates is not exhaustive but merely gives examples of sectors affected by the interest rate situation. In addition to these, there are a large number of small businesses and professionals in the sector, whose working conditions have deteriorated or even ceased because of the interest rate situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u86	Mr. Speaker! In this sitting, we have discussed a great deal about the position of entrepreneurs in difficulty. This is now a motion for which I would like to thank the government very much. This has been taken forward very quickly, and this is a concrete and good measure, which will hopefully help thousands or even tens of thousands of entrepreneurs. As mentioned above, this proposal now temporarily also allows entrepreneurs to benefit from unemployment benefit. I believe that quite a few small entrepreneurs, particularly barbers, those working in the service sector and others, will welcome this news with joy. Here Mr Koponen made a good point about the impact of this proposal on this situation as well as on the payment of benefits. As we have already discussed before, the pressure on the direction of Kela, for example, is very high at the moment. Now that these entrepreneurs come on top of their applications, it is quite clear that Kela's situation must somehow be resolved, because in the same way that employees who have lost their jobs do not have this kind of entrepreneur, whose entire business has been wiped out because of this corona virus situation, time is waiting months for him to receive its unemployment benefit, but must be obtained quickly and quickly. Mr. Speaker! Let me finish by saying what Mr Essayah has said very well in this regard. I hope that this change, which is now being made, will open up a wider debate in this House and also in the ministries as to whether we could have a social security model in the future that would also take much more account of entrepreneurs. As this shows now, it is not impossible. It is technically, it is a financial task. I hope and believe that this issue will be taken into serious consideration there, because we know that working life has been fragmented. We have an increasing number of cases where employees can also be a secondary entrepreneur or vice versa. These barriers are blurring all the time, when our old model, in which we have divided people so categorically into either entrepreneurs or employees, is working year by year, and day by day is getting worse. For a long time now, this proposal is a good step in the right direction. I hope that, once this crisis is overcome — and this is now a good opportunity for it — genuine social protection can be reformed so that entrepreneurs will also be better protected in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u87	Mr President! We are living in a situation where the income of many entrepreneurs falls below the income threshold, and it is important that labour market support can now help these entrepreneurs to survive over these few months so that they do not have to stop doing business, but that entrepreneurs can continue to do so again, when the situation makes things easier. Since this is a fixed-term legislation and is quite short-term — only until the end of June — I think it is very important to draw up experience here. When it is precisely that social security is being reformed, these experiences could be used to create models that can also help entrepreneurs to overcome temporary difficulties in other situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u88	Mr President, värderade talman! Very good speeches have been made here about the temporary organisation of the right to unemployment security for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u89	Mr President! This temporary opportunity for an entrepreneur's right to unemployment benefit is a good step on the right path, but it is unfortunately small, and it is neither impressive enough nor large enough, in the sense that we could say as a whole that entrepreneurs will get the hope and the prospect that they need at the moment. But there have been many small proposals in this Chamber over the last few weeks, and together they can then, of course, act as a view that we can give the prospect of this common corona bog to the entrepreneurial field, to the business community and also to the workers. Indeed, we are now providing for the right to unemployment security to pay labour market support to a full-time entrepreneur whose full-time employment in an enterprise would be considered to have ended and, as regards this end, would clearly be the cause of a very widespread serious infectious disease, i.e. this income from business activity would have been significantly reduced, but of course it is a very life-condition for this temporary measure to not have to be stopped as such. As Mr Marttinen pointed out in his recent good speech, the transformation of working life has been a major one and over the last twenty years we have had a lot of workers who have been employees, employees and experts at the same time as entrepreneurs, and so that we can also have legislation to respond to this change in working life, which has been in our society for over a decade now, this is one step in the right direction. In the last term, in the coalition—centre—blue government, we did manage to establish the right to unemployment benefit for a family member of an entrepreneur — a family member, a spouse, a common-law spouse or a child of a family who has ever worked in an enterprise — and even though this is now a labour market subsidy which seems to be insufficient in size in a difficult situation when it comes to entrepreneurs, it is nevertheless a step in the right direction. Secondly, with regard to the situation of entrepreneurs and, in particular, service entrepreneurs, Mr President, the last few weeks have been filled with feedback, in fact more than a week, that entrepreneurs in the service sector do not receive loans from Business Finland and do not receive guarantees from Finnvera. And why can't they? Because their equity is either negative or weakened. Why is it weakened or negative? Because the company has grown, or because the establishment has been closed down, or simply because there has not been an opportunity to invest it in equity at that stage. I would like the government to pay attention to this, because now, if there is too little capital, too little capital, or negative capital, or the company has, for example, a default mark for the past couple of years, there is not enough attention now, then all the measures we are doing here in this Chamber — talk about 10 billion, 15 billion, billions to that business field and, in a way, give the prospect of lending, which is not even a viable alternative to everyone else, because there is no prospect of how this loan could be paid — are very difficult, and I hope that the government will now take the steps that Parliament will then have required on Saturday 28 March, i.e. prompt delivery of any aid packages affecting service and restaurant companies and their business. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u90	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the opposition parties for their very constructive and wise and intelligent speeches. As a result of exceptional circumstances, business opportunities have been significantly reduced. The Corona virus epidemic and, in general, any restriction measures and the legitimate fear of the virus by the public are a major obstacle to economic activity in society, and this has, of course, had a significant impact on business life. The customers have stopped, and the consumption has stopped. This proposal would therefore make it possible to pay labour market support to a full-time entrepreneur whose full-time employment in the company would be considered to have ended and the cause would be the infectious disease. That's exactly where we are. It is also significant that this full-time work could be considered as completed in these circumstances, even if the business itself is not discontinued. Labour market support would therefore not mean the end of business. As has been said on many occasions here, the change is temporary and is intended to ensure the livelihood of entrepreneurs during the exceptional circumstances of this pandemic, but the government is prepared to submit to Parliament, if necessary, an extension of this temporary change. — We do not always know about the future. President! Although these are very important and very essential measures, unfortunately this is now a time frame. Entrepreneurs are now living in very serious times. In various ways, the Government has directed various forms of support to business fields, including direct aid in the form of loans. They will certainly help to smooth out and slow down this plight, but what is essential is precisely what many Members have said here that the whole thing — all small and large measures — is the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u91	Mr President! I have been rather critical here of the government's actions on how ineffective they are, and I think they are rather small, but this is actually a government proposal that I can give you credit for. To be honest, this would have been much overdue, and I think it is quite important that, even if this epidemic or pandemic passes this stage, this issue could be discussed. The problem is, to a large extent, that someone can sign up for the unemployment card and yet still do something during that time or even do double a month earlier and then be out of work for another month. But it could very well be viewed in a longer period of time, for example, what has come to be earned during the year. In any case, quite a few small entrepreneurs have the hourly wages, if they are to be calculated, which means that the number of hours may not always be the right measure in these terms, but rather the result of that small firm. But we really must support the proposal from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u92	Mr President! I also agree with these praises that come here because when I am a child of the assisting family, I know that this has been a problem for a very long time. And as the business associations have now come to thank you for this, I would also like to point this out in this Chamber. We have a rather tight situation in the future for entrepreneurs, and the measures that have come so far are not enough, which means that the work must continue. But there will be synergy and synergy in these many small streams, but we still have a lot to do before we get this Finland back on its feet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u93	Mr President! There, when I ran from that remote office, from my own office, it may have been that at the beginning I forgot to say thank you to the government for this presentation. I would also like to say that this is indeed a good start in terms of unemployment security for the entrepreneur, and in the same way as Mr Laakso, I would like to say that, once we have noticed that, in this very difficult and difficult situation of interest rates, there have also been some proposals here in the Chamber which, in a way, only in the very difficult situation, have made our system work, then there is one proposal that should also be assessed after this very difficult and difficult situation of interest rates, so that if it could be continued in any way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u94	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 6/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u95	Mr President! It seems that there is little more to be said here in Parliament than about the corona virus, and that is the case, but there is a report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on a matter that has been submitted to it in the past. The purpose of this government proposal is precisely to introduce into Finnish legislation two EU regulations which are, in themselves, text, which will be transferred directly to our legal book, but then, in this context, when the EMIR Refit Regulation amending the EMIR Regulation and the regulation on supervision of CCPs is implemented nationally, it is also proposed that these points of the Market Abuse Regulation, MAR, be introduced in Finland. In addition, a technical amendment to the Payment Institutions Act would be introduced. This MAR item concerns precisely these provisions of the Parliament and Council Directive on prudential supervision of investment firms concerning the price volatility interval for direct orders. The committee has drawn attention to this inside point. The insider lists should include those persons who have access to inside information, which therefore concerns these issues in the SME growth market, and who work for companies on the basis of a contract of employment or other tasks performed through which they have access to such inside information. The committee has taken a position that this project-specific list would be better than this kind of so-called permanent list, since this project-specific list can be ascertained whether this person has possibly had inside information related to that particular movement, while then this kind of permanent list would be so general that, in terms of legal security, it might be problematic to have to this sort of permanent list, while this person could have a situation that he would have had nothing to do with this particular issue with any inside information. Indeed, this is essentially where these EU regulations are being implemented, and it is good and necessary for you to take this forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u96	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 2/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Will the chairman of the committee, Mr Kymäläinen, take the floor?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u97	Mr President! Yes, I'm prepared to make a presentation. First of all, I would like to thank the committee for its flexibility, because it was quite exceptional that there were two separate proposals relating to the Road Traffic Act, of which we then picked up the most urgent ones, so to speak, before the entry into force of the Road Traffic Act on 1 June, and the rest of this large package will be dealt with when we deal with these exceptional circumstances and times caused by the interest rate. Mr President! Last week, the Committee on Transport and Communications adopted a report on facilitating the parking of home care workers. The proposal met the requirements of the Parliament's statement proposed in its report in 2018 by the Committee on Transport and Communications. As a result of the amendment of the law, the parking number for home care granted by the municipality is allowed to park at a paid parking place without payment, despite the restriction indicated by the traffic sign. You can also park in an area where parking is prohibited by a traffic sign. In addition, the parking symbol allows parking for a longer period of time in an area where the maximum parking time is limited. The amendment is intended to enter into force on 1 June 2020 at the time of the entry into force of the new Road Traffic Act. Mr. Speaker! In its report, the Committee welcomes the fact that solutions have been found to the long-standing problems of home care parking. The need and amount of home care will increase in the future due to the ageing of the population, among other things. In the view of the committee, the proposal improves the parking possibilities for home care, increases the safety of home care customers and enables home care workers to have more time available to meet their needs. The committee considers that the proposal is a welcome step in the right direction, although it does not solve all the problems of parking services at home. Further efforts will therefore be needed in the future to resolve these problems. The expert consultation has shown that, in situations where co-operation areas as home care providers extend to several municipalities, it would also be important to have a uniform home care parking number in this area, inter alia, in order to ensure the possibility of monitoring. The committee encourages municipalities to agree, as appropriate, on common parking codes for such situations. The committee has made minor clarifications on the provisions on the parking number for home care, which correspond to the purpose of the proposal. The performance provides for parking in the road area with a home care parking number and therefore does not affect parking in the courtyards of, for example, housing companies and real estate. The committee attaches great importance to the fact that property owners and property managers will also play an active role in the future in order to improve the situation. Houseowners must, as far as possible, provide space for home care parking, and this should also be taken into account as a key aspect of planning. As the population grows older, the need for services to be brought home will increase, and different actors will have to assume their responsibilities in order to enable the service that citizens need to provide. The Committee believes it is important to monitor the effectiveness of the regulation on the home care parking logo in terms of, among other things, road safety, the prevention of possible abuse and the coherence of application, and also to assess the need for over-regulation and new means of solving parking problems. This also applies to non-road sector regulation, such as the regulation of the Land Traffic Act of the Ministry of the Environment, which falls within the administrative branch of the Ministry of the Environment. It is also particularly important to ensure the adequacy of control resources to ensure road safety. Mr President! As far as the provisions transferred from the repair package are concerned, the Committee on Transport and Communications has a second government proposal for amending the Road Transport Act, HE 17/2020. This so-called package of amendments to the Road Traffic Act was so extensive that, in this situation, the committee considered it necessary to deal with and adopt the provisions of the repair package in the context of this report on the parking number for home care, which, according to a report by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, it is necessary to bring into force as early as 1.6. For the rest, as I said earlier, the committee will deal with the road transport package at a later date. The provisions transferred to this report from the Road Transport Act repair package concern heavy-duty ‘HCT’ combinations, the competence of the Ely Centres and certain other details. Mr President! The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u98	Mr President! Thank you to the committee and to the chairman of the committee for a good presentation of the matter and for the work done in committee, and in particular for the fact that these few proposals relating to the repair package have now been taken up as a matter of urgency — in particular, these provisions which facilitate the parking of home care workers, which have indeed been in line with the statement adopted by Parliament in 2018, and could be said to be appropriate to the common sense of the citizens. So there has really been a huge amount of feedback on how it is possible that home care workers in that city will have to look for that parking space first and then, if they find it, run around and see where there is a parking disc or a parking meter to look for either mobile or money or something like that. After all, it was incomprehensible when we know how little time the home care workers always have in each place to be there with the customer. It would certainly not take a minute to think about these parking issues all the time. Good work has been done in committee. That is where the chairman of the committee mentioned these points which have been raised. Perhaps I myself would like to draw particular attention here to the fact that this parking permit does not mean that home care should start to use the places of insecurity and these places of insecurity, which are also in short supply for those who use them, would then become, as it were, competitive, so that this does not make it possible to park in these places of insecurity. Another restriction, which is logical in itself, is that this applies only to places on the streets of the municipality or in the road area managed by the municipality, which means that these private-controlled parking areas cannot be reached with this permission. This is, of course, logical for you, but I know that Mr Kiljunen, in your parliamentary group, has again tabled a legislative initiative on this issue. But this is indeed a very necessary and certainly one could say that the government's proposal is widely welcomed by the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u99	Mr President! This proposal is indeed important and necessary. However, it is a good thing that this proposal was brought by the committee at a time of urgency. Although this is not in any way intended for this corona epidemic, yet, for example, I have been contacted by home nurses who feel that right now, at a time when, for example, the transport of protective materials, protective equipment, their stripping and use are still taking time, especially from home care workers, it is necessary and important that this possibility of using the home care parking number be made available. This law will now come into force on 1 June, which means that it is not going to be all that bad, this April-May, but it is good that we are now getting this thing started. Of course, the fact that these decisions are taken by the municipalities must now be taken into account. In other words, this gives municipalities the opportunity to reduce home care parking problems, and that is why, of course, it is now important that the municipalities are active and that the opportunity provided by this law be put in place. This is where each of us can take initiative, even in his own municipality, if the municipal trust functions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u100	Mr President! Sometimes small things play a much greater role in decision-making. I believe that this proposal, which we are now discussing, is one example of that. Nurses face many challenges in their work, and I have received a lot of feedback about the fact that these carers are short and in cities, it is difficult to find parking places in the urban area. This problem has come to many nurses when they are doing their important work with our elderly, our parents, our grandparents. These parking challenges are a real problem for home care workers in a number of cities, and this was also highlighted in the feedback on what this proposal has become for the Ministry. This amendment of the law would therefore allow a home care worker to park his car free of charge and without a time limit in a paid and time-limited parking lot in the future. The parking right would also extend to driveways, to maintenance areas only and to areas where parking is otherwise prohibited. This extension of the parking right is a good and very necessary thing. We home care workers must have the opportunity to do this important basic work, and such factors, such as parking restrictions, must not cause them any extra effort. Mr. Speaker! The point that relates to this performance and where the eyes turn to our municipal officials and municipal decision-makers is that this amendment of the law allows the municipality to introduce a parking permit for such special home care workers in its own municipal or city organisation. It is not, therefore, compulsory; this legislation now allows it. In this case, the question is also so that, hopefully, our towns and cities, which are now operating as parking control authorities again, mainly in their own regions, will decide that this parking permit will be introduced so that, in a genuine way, home care workers will also receive the help they really deserve for their own work. Mr. Speaker! Here the chairman of our committee took an excellent and comprehensive speech and presented this proposal. I would just like to say that, of course, this amendment to the Road Traffic Act has mainly involved this amendment to the regulation on the parking permit for home care workers, but now, among other things, this package has included the HCT regulation on these overlong trucks, which is now linked to the new road traffic law that will come into force in June. I think it is honest to say that this procedure does not, at least in my capacity as a Member of Parliament and as a member of the committee, inspire a great deal of confidence in the Ministry of Transport. I do not understand how it can be that, now that the previous Parliament has adopted a comprehensive amendment to the Road Traffic Act, just a few months before the Act comes into force, a huge package of corrections will be introduced to this Parliament, which will correct dozens and dozens of different articles and items. We will then also be informed that it is necessary to correct this legislation that comes into force in certain respects, so that we do not have situations where, for example, some of the activities are illegal when this new law comes into force. Mr. Speaker! I would also like to say in this Chamber that it will also be recorded in the Minutes that it is absolutely necessary for the Ministry of Transport and Communications to improve and improve its own drafting of legislation. Although I have also worked in the Ministry for four to five years as a special assistant to the minister and then also directed this legislative preparation, it also strikes me in my own eyes quite a bit of the level of legislation being introduced into this house. In fact, this has also been well stated in our committee's report, and that is what we have also discussed. It is certainly true that the chairman of the committee will then also take this message to the end of the ministry, because this house deserves high quality, quality-prepared proposals again. Unfortunately, in this respect, all these proposals have not been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u101	Mr President! Thank you very much to the chairman of the committee, Mr Kymäläinen, for this good, comprehensive presentation. It was a good idea for all of us to put together. Mr Marttinen has very recently pointed out what was not so clear about it. Indeed, the Ministry has not really been on the map in these cases, because in reality the number of repairs — Mr Marttinen said tens — is probably 100, and they are indeed being imported. Without this corona situation, we would have had a brutal site here before the June 1st to get that whole bunch done. Although I have to say that there is no ministry experience and I am also a Member of Parliament for the first time, I was the first to wonder that when this is a complete law that has to come into force on 1 June, how is such a terrible need for change involved? Well, they did pick up a few things in the same context, like these High Capacity Transports, so that there won't be 10 percent of our trucks standing by the road because they can't drive anymore. In other words, with regard to the committee, we got the job done in the sense that we were able to involve the things that are necessary, but, quite frankly, we must now wonder what the ministry is doing in this regard. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u102	Mr President! I too would like to thank the committee and the chairman of the committee for this very important proposal and for the change that has now been achieved there. I mean, how much criticism did I get when I was in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health? There were many reasons why this could not be done at the time, but it is now very good. Of course, this way of dealing with these by private parking companies will certainly remain to be discussed. When you think, for example, that you live in a city where there is a population that needs a housekeeper or a home service person there, I do not think that all those services are on the public road, that is to say, in a way that there is a public parking organisation, but then perhaps it is gradually expanding. Here, too, one might think that it would be precisely by means of cooperation and cooperation if private individuals were to go along with this. I think this would be such a social act now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u103	Mr President! Thank you to the committee and to Mr Kymäläinen for the good work he has done. We're gonna fix it. We're gonna fix it. Many home care workers have resented the lack of time in their work, and the rush has been exacerbated by the lack of parking space and even a little time spent searching for it. The government proposal facilitates the parking of home care workers. There are many important points. In spite of the restriction indicated by the traffic sign, the home care parking number issued by the municipality would allow parking in a paid parking space without payment and in areas where parking is prohibited by the traffic sign. Home care workers could park the restriction for a longer period in areas where the maximum parking time is limited. The parking mark would also allow parking on the yard street, not only in a marked parking space, but also in the area affected by the additional service plate. The home care staff are still doing very valuable work under challenging conditions, so this relief is very welcome. After the amendment of the Road Traffic Act, home care workers will have more time for actual work: They have time for the customer and service work when searching does not take time. Time is freed to meet man. It is estimated that the proportion of the population aged over 16 exceeds the 25 per cent limit in 2030. There is an increasing need for home care services, which we must continue to develop. For fresh and reasonably healthy people, home is the best place to do something that keeps your ability to function. The development of home care will also help to ensure the carrying capacity of our social and health services. Those who need institutional care will have better access to the place they need. Your committee very much drew attention to the fact that housing companies could also facilitate the situation of home care workers. You could book parking spaces for them in the courtyards. This should also be taken into account in planning. It is great that these measures will also improve the quality of home care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u104	Mr President! Thank you to the committee and thank you for the speeches that have been made here. Yes, I feel good right now. I am extremely happy because this little change of law is a huge deal for many people, and that is how it should be: in difficult times we will also find those things that make life easier for many workers and especially for those who can be at home. I have received a great deal of communication in this regard as a municipal decision-maker naturally, and there has still been a message this week. In that sense, of course, it is regrettable that this is not enough time to help in this corona crisis, but there is nothing we can do about it now, and this is not in itself a corona-related issue. With this in mind, I would really like to send my greetings to the decision-makers that you have now been given the necessary impetus and that we can act in the interests of all of us. And once again, thank you, that's an excellent thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u105	Mr President! We must continue to be delighted and satisfied with the fact that home care workers deserve not to have to think about the parking permit, but that the legislators have now taken care of this in such a way that the main focus goes there to do home care and that work and does not need to think about these parking cases. But, Mr President, I would also like to mention these HCT trucks, and I am very grateful for the good speeches that have been made in this regard.... [PresidentMattiVanhanen : Now cautiously, without enlargement.]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u108	Mr President! With regard to this very last one, the HCT trucks: the trucks are already on the road, and with these amendments to the legislation that we are now making here, we are trying to make provision for the fact that the trucks will remain there as well in the future, that it is not an illegal state. Indeed, with regard to this package of corrections, I agree with what has been said here that this does not give any beauty points in terms of preparation insofar as this came to Parliament so late, given that the 1.6th law is already in force. But this is not new, unfortunately, in these transport-related paragraphs — I myself have been with them for nine years in this house, and this has been regrettablely common — but there is a lesson to be learned here for everyone, and this time, of course, brings its own challenge to this further. Also in view of the fact that the Ministry received between 200 and 300 responses during the consultation and the numerous repair needs still exist and the proposals for repairs are still coming to us with a repair package vol. 2, and I hope that these points, which have not now been able to come to Parliament, will be prepared when we attack these points in the Committee on Transport and Communications, which are now in the repair package, so that we can also solve the problems and the points that are still there to be corrected. As far as this car park is concerned, there have been very varied practices in the municipalities. There have been municipalities where this has worked well, and now this legislation is trying to make this possible through uniform practices everywhere, and the committee is appealing to municipalities and decision-makers so that this spirit of law can also be put into practice there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u109	Mr President! This extension of the parking right is very much to be welcomed. This is a direct improvement in coping with home care workers. There are huge employees there, but who is able to do such a job that is not allowed to do as well as he wants to do? In other words, there is not enough time to deal with the elderly, and this will certainly give us at least a few more minutes for each day of this encounter, and I am sure that these home care workers will be able to do their job again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u110	Mr President! It's very brief. The most important thing that has not been said in that speech, that is, when the representatives here have enjoyed this legislation, it has certainly been a pleasure to work on this law with regard to the parking of carers from the outset, both here in Parliament and, in particular, in the Committee on Transport and Communications. It is nice to have legislation that has the strong support of all parties, and this has been a joint project in that this is not just a matter for the government but, above all, for Parliament, with its statement this has been brought to our attention by the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u111	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SIVM 4/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u112	Mr President! As chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, I present the report. Article 53 of the Act on the Financing of Education and Culture, 1705/2009, provides that the State may be ordered to repay the State aid granted to the project of establishment under this Act if the acquired property has been transferred to another person or the activity has been discontinued or the use of the property has been permanently changed and the property is not used for any other activity eligible for State aid. The amount to be refunded takes into account the relative change in the building cost index and is reduced by a reasonable decrease in value due to the building’s age and normal consumption. Grants for the establishment project have had to be returned, for example, in situations where indoor air problems have been identified in a building operating as an educational establishment and new premises have been built. In some cases, buildings have been disposed of for activities where the new use no longer corresponds to the previous use or the building stock has been incorporated and the premises have been offered for rent for other activities. Due to a faster rise in the points in the building cost index, the increase in the index has in some cases been greater than the fall in value. This has led to an excessive situation in which the amount to be reimbursed has risen above the amount granted. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the criteria for calculating the State grants to be repaid so that the building cost index is removed from the calculation criteria. In addition, the current calculation criteria for determining a reasonable decrease in value due to the age and normal wear of the buildings of the establishment project will be increased. Similarly, it is proposed to increase the value of grants for the purchase of library cars and library boats. The purpose of the proposal is that the amount of the euro refund is more reasonable and does not go beyond the amount of the grant granted, as is possible under the current provisions — as I said earlier. From the point of view of the State, the change in the basis for calculating the refund is not of major importance in comparing the refund with the euro amounts of the start-up projects granted. The proposal stresses the exceptional nature of the return to start-up projects. Between 2005 and 2019, the grants provided for in this proposal amount to approximately EUR 1 billion. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Education considers that the Government's proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee proposes the adoption of legislative proposals contained in the government proposal without amendment. And I think this is a very fair law in the sense that it is very unreasonable for you to have to return more than you have received. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u113	Mr President! In that last sentence, the chairman of the committee, Risikko, actually summed up what the steak of this whole proposal is, that is to say, the removal of this building cost index from those calculation criteria. Indeed, it is incomprehensible that this could have led to and perhaps has led to a situation in which the amount to be reimbursed has risen above the amount of the grant to be granted. It has been mentioned here that these grants for start-up projects have had to be returned, for example, in situations where indoor air problems have been detected in buildings which have been an educational institution. This is certainly a fairly common problem at the moment and a challenge in many municipalities, and unfortunately this proposal does not in itself remove the strange situations in a few municipalities where, due to indoor air problems, they are forced to build new school buildings. But also, for example, The National Board of Antiquities’ decision to protect these old buildings is to maintain them in some way, and this in my own municipality, for example, will cause permanent running costs because Sirén, designed by this Parliament House, has also designed the Lapland Gulf Mat and Liisa school building. That is why the National Board of Antiquities has put it on the list of protected schools, and although indoor air problems are great, the school cannot be dismantled, so this is a challenge for a small rural community for years to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u114	Mr. Speaker! Here the chairman of the committee gave a thorough and firm presentation of what this proposal is all about. I am very much in favour of these changes to be made here on the basis of the financial criteria for the possible repayment of the start-up projects. In fact, these state aids for start-up projects for the civilised sector have no longer been granted in recent years, but, in fact, now what remains there concerns these cultural and mostly sports facilities and the situation of sports centres. This is where Mr Essayah raised these problems very well. We know, among other things, about my own hometown Rauma, where our renovated school had been provided by the Ministry ten years ago for this kind of state aid. We have now gone over this situation again in the sense that the school has had to stop because of the indoor air problems that have arisen there, and I think that there are, in fact, a great many similar cases in this country. As far as I am concerned, it is perfectly justified that, in fact, this separate construction of these schools has been completely removed, and it is thought that through the system of state subsidies, when the cities then receive the necessary funding to carry out these projects. In this context, Mr President — quite briefly — there are also, in general terms, certain problems which are reflected in particular in the fact that, when the OKM has previously granted a separate state grant for the repair of these mold schools, such a separate state aid may also have a good purpose in itself, but it is easy to think of the municipalities that are struggling with these financial difficulties, that many times applying for such state aid and waiting for it may in fact also delay quite a lot of the necessary investment. That is why I think it makes sense that efforts have been made to simplify this whole financing model. This proposal before us is another step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-06-ps-50.u115	Mr President! In recent years, there have been an unauthorized number of school buildings in Finland where an indoor air problem has been identified. Even fixing things doesn't always help. New premises had to be built on the farm. Among other things, such a situation may be the case in a government proposal. In some cases, school buildings have been handed over to activities where the new use no longer corresponds to the previous one. The Government will propose a fair change to the Act on the Financing of Education and Culture in relation to these founding projects. The building cost index will be removed from the calculation criteria and the percentage reduction in the value of the foundation project relating to the depreciation due to age will be specified here. In some cases, for one reason or another, the subsidy will have to be paid back to the State, and that is why it is important, as our chairman said, that no one has to pay more than he has received. Of course, these returns are quite exceptional, but these situations can already, in principle, be unpleasant. It is a good thing that the amount of refund is moderated. It is important that our school network is kept healthy and comprehensive across the country.
