ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. After the Minister's presentation, the debate will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u2	Mr President! According to these new guidelines, was it the case, President, that we should take the mask off when we speak? [PresidentAnuVehvillainen : May leave the mask. We don't have to! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u7	Now I ask those representatives who want to use the reply to the question, to stand up and press the V button from their place. — And the debate will begin by Mr Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u8	Mr President! The interest rate coordination group in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area has today decided on an approach to improve the monitoring of restaurants in accordance with the Act on Infectiousness. The objective of the operating model is to address the increased risk of restaurants and risk behaviour by means of specific measures. They also emphasize the importance of wearing facial masks and recommend to private professionals that they demand it from their customers. This is now Rule 58. An infectious agent, and this could well have been taken along with this facial mask. There is particularly good evidence from the world that there is a significant benefit in the fight against this disease, including a new study on South Korea, and this could well have included it in this Act on infectious diseases, an opportunity to introduce it as one tool, including the obligation to wear facial mask.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u9	Madam President! Are we screwing up this corona situation in Finland? We can make restrictions, and of course they should be made — we are talking about the tourist bubble and now about the restaurant bubble, but what if they remain soap bubbles? It is so much up to us people how we act and how we behave. One person carrying the corona virus there in the restaurant exposes other people there, and now, for example, here in the law there are many different restrictions on restaurants, there is talk of hygiene, which is of course already common to restaurants. I would like to ask you, Minister, when the information received by the public is very contradictory — sometimes THL reports that the corona is not as dangerous as it is in the spring, that the shape is different, and now there is a message that the corona is spreading and must be made more restrictive — in what way would you make this information pass in such a way that we would all remember and act as in the spring, responsibly,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u11	Mr President! I understand that the law on restricting restaurant activities in this case, if it is stated in the quotation marks, is intended to continue, but I would like to stress that, when business activities and opening hours are restricted in this case and possibly other content in that activity, this is a considerable restriction and will have a very significant impact on this profitability of the business, and when the first time this was introduced, the Constitutional Committee also stated, I would therefore like to emphasise this principle of proportionality and necessity. In other words, when these restrictions are made, it should always be considered that they are actually effective in preventing the spread of the virus and, on the other hand, they should only be made where they are necessary. That is why I would like to stress, in particular in this proposal, the fact that these restrictions are being applied, which is also reflected in the text.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u12	Madam President! Professor of Virology Olli Vapalahti said in Evening magazine 8. September 19: “If Finns have a virus and heaviness,the virus spreads ” —a clear but well-meaning extract. The question now is what choice of means we have. Different countries have chosen different ways. England has a maximum assembly limit of six, Paris has just closed down the nutrition stores completely, Finland is also moving to remote schools. At the moment, the infections have doubled every two weeks, and if we directly predict mathematically, Christmas will look terrible. I don't think that's gonna happen, so something has to be done. Here is one measure. It's not pleasant, it's a real poison to the industry. But it is a reasonable measure that can, however, contain this. I'm the one who's most looking forward to getting a quick test. It would revolutionize this whole situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u13	Mr President! Indeed, 227 new cases of coronavirus infection have been reported in Finland today and 876 more cases have been reported in the last 14 days than in the previous two weeks. This also confirms that the restrictions now imposed on restaurant activities are necessary. Everyone now needs to understand that the situation is serious. Once again, we are in a situation where there is a need for the ability to cooperate and for people to be informed in a realistic and timely manner about the hygiene requirements and restrictions that must be complied with. We need to invest in communication. Unfortunately, it has not been hoped that safety intervals, mask recommendations and other hygiene recommendations would have been met. Of course, there is also a responsibility for businessmen to care for these, but they too cannot influence everything, and the responsibility now rests with each of us. Entrepreneurs will need support once again in a worse situation, and it is extremely important to prepare for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u14	Madam President! The restaurant sector has been and unfortunately seems to continue to be one of the biggest sufferers of the corona epidemic, and we must do everything we can to ensure that the mistakes of the recession of the 1990s are not repeated and that jobs are defended in the context of this crisis too. Regrettably, at the moment, there are a lot of infected chains attached to restaurants here in Finland, as well as in the rest of Europe, and we are inevitably required to take appropriate action. I myself have wondered that when many of the restaurant owners have contacted and been very concerned about what will be done in the future, perhaps in some way it will also have to be inspired by the activities and activities. In the past, however, our restaurants were only open for 12 people and were able to survive in the past. Maybe we should think a little bit about it and look into history and see how we've done it before. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u15	Fru talman, Madam President! Fortunately, the interest situation in Åland is very good. We've had one corona case in the last two and a half months. Therefore, it has been difficult for Ålanders to understand the logic that restaurant opening hours must also be restricted there, especially as the regulation of restaurants falls within Åland's own competence. The Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also confirmed that interest rate restrictions must be necessary and that regional derogations should be possible. The Åland Islands should also be consulted in decisions concerning them. How is the participation of Åland in the decision-making process ensured? Why not allow the social and health authorities of Åland's self-government to make this decision themselves if and when necessary?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u16	Mr President! Strict restrictive measures are one of the factors in why Finland has not fallen into as terrible a number of human tragedies as in many other countries. In that sense, we have succeeded in the fight against this corona. Of course, there is a balance between the fact that the industry is suffering at the same time, but when I was in Central Finland this weekend on a business trip, for example, two nights I saw at the hotel how about fifty people at ten o'clock in the evening sing karaoke lapsed there for many hours together, as if there were no fear of coronas. In that sense I understand that people may no longer feel this as threatening as they used to, and if that message has become false to someone that this is no longer such a serious disease, then this should in some way be corrected. I would also have asked the Minister that when HUS gives different instructions than THL masks and recommendations, has it gone so that HUS begins to recommend for its part in its own hospital district, how masks are used, or [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u17	Mr President! The fight against interest must be successful, as the spread of the disease has serious consequences for both human health and the economy. In that sense, it is very important that we learn from spring that we try to find ways not to shut down the whole country but to keep society open at the same time, that is to say, testing, tracing, using masks must be carried forward forcefully. In this context, the Coalition Party has proposed, among other things, a test guarantee and a reduction in VAT on face masks. The instructions of the authorities must be clear and precise, and cooperation must also work seamlessly. As part of this whole, restaurants that have been exposed throughout Finland will inevitably also rise on the table. The government's decision to limit the activity of restaurants in this epidemic situation must be understood, but it threatens to deprive the sector of up to 20,000 jobs, which is a worrying issue. In the opinion of the Assembly, restrictions on restaurants should be based on the fight against epidemics
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u18	Madam President! As was heard in that minister's presentation, the worrying situation is once again in our hands in Finland, and hopefully it will not be all the time but worse. In this context, I would like to appeal to everyone in Finland to really think about their own activities and behaviour, because each one of us has the keys to how this situation is going. We are talking about nutrition and related restrictions. Of course, we are always working on this epidemic with the economy and with this epidemic. These restrictions will inevitably again be a blow to the food industry, and that is a concern we share. However, it must be stressed that these measures are necessary. The government does not take action which it does not see as necessary. If we want to deal with this corona epidemic, the most important thing is to deal with the epidemic —
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u19	Mr President! It is very regrettable that we are once again in a situation where the epidemic is at an increasing stage, and these decisions, which are now being taken, are certainly difficult for everyone, but they are absolutely necessary, as Mr Viljanen has just said, to curb the spread of the disease in the best possible way and thus to safeguard the health of the population. However, I would like to point out that these restrictive measures, which are now being taken, are once again going to hit those areas which have been hit by the interest rate and its restrictive measures since spring. The situation in the restaurant sector, nightclubs, event entrepreneurs and, for example, the companies involved in the enforcement of law and order, is quite worrying, and I think that through this crisis we must succeed in carrying these entrepreneurs and businesses and those workers. We must therefore continue to target adequate support measures in these areas, which have now been reduced or even exhausted by these restrictions. We must allow new beginnings during this epidemic, but also for a long time after that, so that these entrepreneurs and perhaps their lives can be saved or at least re-started. However, at the end of the day, I would like to emphasise:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u20	Mr President! Unfortunately, with the fall, the corona situation has indeed deteriorated. Restaurants have already made a huge number of exceptional arrangements, for which I would like to thank you very much, and they have certainly contributed to increasing the safety of coronas. Still, the disease is rampant. The interest rate is still dangerous and, of course, we should continue to take it seriously. In my view, such well-targeted measures are a logical continuation of the government's hybrid strategy, i.e. to test, trace, isolate and manage, with the aim of curbing the epidemic as little as possible to the detriment of people, businesses, society and fundamental rights. From the point of view of necessity, Mrs Salmon spoke well. This is perhaps the point where this aspect of regionalism is reflected.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u21	Mr President! First of all, I would like to wish you a good family carers' day and remind you that family carers should also be taken into account during the corona crisis. As far as these restrictions on restaurants are concerned, the most important thing in this exceptional situation would be coherence and clear communication, and the fact that there would be medical and, in general, scientific justifications and evidence for these activities, what is being done, and that they would be precisely targeted, unlike perhaps now in this proposal itself. This regionality has already been mentioned, but has it taken into account the types of restaurants and the types of restaurants that are most likely to be the sources of infection and which are not? Is this now based on some kind of knowledge, or has this proposal been drawn up by throwing, as has been the case so far with the government? What would change the opening hours to 24, 23 or 01? How many infections, how many deaths, even best estimate, would it prevent? These are the questions we would have to get answers to in this Chamber, because we are seriously drafting laws here and not giving them opinions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u22	Mr President! At least for us in Ostrobothnia at the right time, that is, we had such a situation in the Ostrobothnian region and in the Vaasa region that, could I say, there was little view in seven months that this corona would not come to Ostrobothnia, because about a week ago we still had about a hundred of these cases of infection in the first seven months. Now the situation is that within two days there have been 132 cases of infection, and this tells us that no area is safe from interest, but can come to any province, any city, and spread really fast. Unfortunately, these cases of Vaasa have also left student parties and subsequent nightclubs, restaurants, and in that respect I see,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u23	Madam President! In this Chamber and in Finland as a whole, I believe there is a common goal that we can prevent the spread of the corona while at the same time trying to keep Finland as open as possible and keep the wheels running. It is not easy for anyone to seek this balance, including the Finnish Government. However, when, in the case of restaurants, you are suggesting that, by a decision taken separately, the Council of State could tighten up these opening hours regulations where this epidemic is already at an accelerated stage, should it also include a provision where, where it is seen that there is no equivalent need to regulate even what is in this regulation, the Council of State could then, by a decision taken separately, mitigate these restrictions, because, as has been said here, Parliament has stressed this necessity and also regional considerations?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u24	Madam President! Surely there is every reason to continue with these regulations. That is where Mr Zyskowicz began to reflect on this proportionality and whether it has been taken into account, and at least I myself find a point in this text which explicitly refers to this view of the Constitutional Committee that, when there is an outbreak of this kind which is getting worse in turn, it is quite clear that it is possible to deal with it in a flexible way. And this consideration of territoriality is, in my opinion, one of the most important points here. But today we know from the news that these high-risk restaurants in the capital region have started to go through them in a special way, and I wonder whether this approach should now be taken precisely in the sense that restaurants are in a rather different category from nightclubs or bars in the morning, where there is still plenty of alcohol to serve.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u25	At this point, I will give the floor to the Minister. — Minister, 3 minutes. — — — — And then let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u26	Mr President! I think that the debate in this House has been very rewarding, precisely from the point of view that was actually expressed by Mr Niikko in his own speech. Yes, the central task for all of us is to ensure that everything that can be done to prevent the spread of the interest rate is done. Representative Berg summed up the fact that no one knows whether a region is actually protected on a long schedule when the situation can change in two days. That is what we have now seen in Vaasa, that is to say, the readings in Vaasa at the moment, have also led to the very rapid intervention of health authorities and also of decision-makers. And the sooner we can act, the more tools we have in action, the better the results we can achieve. In this regard, it is important that this dominant tool, with which we have so far managed this epidemic, should also be available during the months of autumn ahead, namely in practice for November and December. If, therefore, the update of the Act on communicable diseases does not go forward in Parliament — probably not — then it is clear that we need to have this approach. And in this regard, it is very important that we insist that all the measures taken under this law are absolutely necessary, and that is why I, for my part, also justified measures of a level of this regulation by going through the situation in which what was done was done. And now, once again, we are in a situation where the tolerance shift has turned to the situation in Finland, that we are going very fast towards these regions of the accelerating epidemic, which we already have signs of in Finland. In this regard, we need regulation, which is precisely the starting point for Parliament's underlying philosophy, that we should look, as Mr Zyskowicz said, at regional needs and regional situations, and that is what we are doing here. That was the important second point made by the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs, along with this necessity, and it has now been considered that this is a new normal, necessary point of departure throughout the country because these clusters of diseases that come can touch any province, and if this situation gets worse in nutrition movements, then we can bring about a real epidemic, and we have seen these in different parts of Finland. And I hope that Parliament will also recognise the fact that, from the point of view of the management of the epidemic, this tool is important. Mr Laiho asked about the Mask Force, and I say that this proposal is unchangeable, that is why no other infectious disease needs have been introduced, whether they are masks or some others, and in this context we are not dealing with masks, but we are dealing with this measure for nutritionists. Congressman Juvonen asked how this situation differs from spring. This differs from the fact that, at the time, these measures were national and, therefore, they were on standby, and now this is the responsibility of the regions. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u27	Madam President! It would be nice to know whether something has already been done in advance about the support system for restaurants, that it will not be the same as the previous time, that the restaurants were among the first to suffer and, in the last, about the last to receive support. I would like to see this seen more widely, and not that all possible restaurants are put in the same cluster, because the situation is quite different, for example, at a transport station, because after just half the night there are even normally fewer people, so there is no reasonableness to shut down that station. And here the problem is that if you look at this job too narrowly, then in many places it is not going to happen in the way that was hoped for, however, because it will cause financial losses quite shockingly. You know, about all this youth stuff.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u28	Mr President! We are in a situation where the epidemic is intensifying, and we therefore have to reflect again on these restrictions. I would like to start by saying that regional flexibility is very important, even so that flexibility per restaurant could be involved, because it is now the case that not all restaurants work as well — some work better, some work worse. And there are also different practices — can be introduced with disposable menus, QR downloadable menus, can be placed between tables and so on. In other words, those restaurants that work well should not, of course, be closed down. I am well aware that nightclubs are now under a magnifying glass, but I am concerned about 20,000 jobs connected to this and also about the fact that the drinking and social activities will then be transferred to private homes. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, how do you feel about this extension of the right to sell alcohol out to up to 16 % of products and, on the other hand, to
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u29	Mr President! For the second time, we cannot afford a law of exception to catch Finland. It was experienced in the spring and had a significant economic and employment impact. That is why this model, so that, with regional restrictions and individual government decisions, as is the case today, will proceed in this fight against the epidemic. Of course, there is little concern about people's attitudes at the moment, especially with regard to young people. It is obvious that there is a bit of tournament fatigue now and that a little posture is needed from each of the Finns, especially to take into account the seriousness of this epidemic. After all, the restaurant and service sector is once again in difficulty, but it is believed that these regional and individual restrictive measures will be able to keep these jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u30	Madam President! Different countries operate in this corona battle on different terrains, and Finland also has different terrains. The situation is serious — we balance the spread of the disease with keeping society open. We need clear guidelines to prevent spread and protect risk groups. The abundance of communication is numbing, which is why clear - language instructions are needed. This is also a question of freedom of trade and restrictions on it. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has therefore stressed the need for restrictive measures and the importance of taking regional decisions. Where restrictions apply only in areas where they are necessary and where there is a genuine risk of exposure, close cooperation between the authorities is required. There's only been a few infections in the schools. It is important for distance school to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u31	Madam President! That was the tip of the week for the Minister not to say that, in cooperation with our media operators, would we be able to quickly create a simple, simple campaign to educate Finns so that we could break these chains and break this cycle, which clearly revolves around the spread of this corona, so that the tournament fatigue and mental march break mentioned here can be corrected so that the disease can be contained and companies can continue to operate. It is up to each of us citizens, and that responsibility must be raised up, even with spiritual leaders, if nothing else helps, but if we were now to try these commercial and state-supported media. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u32	Madam President! This latest plan, therefore, is actually limiting the activities of restaurants to a deeper crisis in the restaurant sector and, as has already been said on several occasions, it is estimated that thousands and thousands of jobs will be lost in this sector. Mr Kauma has already made good mention of the measures proposed in the spring in order to safeguard the operating conditions of the restaurant sector, i.e. the extension of the right to exit and the reduction of VAT on sales. After all, at least the Greens and the Centre have publicly declared their support for the extension of the sale, even though they voted against the draft of the Convention in the spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u35	Madam President! I would like to make such a small comparison: if we look at the fact that there is a well-supervised restaurant, there is a well-respected distance and so forth. Is it better to close these down than to move young people, for example, to closed, electricity-free factory facilities with multiple hundred-headed troops, and there are certainly distances other than controlled, and safety is also very poor. This is also a matter for consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u36	Mr President! It is a matter of merit that we have considered this whole. I would like to add an additional angle to the debate, which has not been heard today, at least. The vaccine reports show that this situation may continue as it is for about a year. Vaccines do not necessarily give immunity but only weaken the virus and may still be transmitted to the person who has been vaccinated. And since we are about a year on this basis in this struggle, what international standards have already been developed for the restaurant industry in order to bring such standards to Finland so that these restaurants and other industries can be kept open? This is the kind of question for the Minister. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u37	Madam President! Regrettably, restaurants will not be able to cope with these restrictive measures. You, Mr Government, have highlighted regional and local measures, and now we have to ask why these measures are not done regionally in the case of restaurants. The regulation is defined as covering Finland as a whole, and now it is necessary to ask whether the freedom to conduct a business granted by the Constitution can be severely restricted only in the interests of certainty in the whole country. I would like to ask the Minister again: is it possible to come down and relax these restrictive measures in areas where the interest rate has not been so widely spread? This also has a big impact on the field of events, artists and musicians, but also on tourism, and tourism in Lapland is a big concern. Representative Heikki Autto has suggested that only initial testing and entry testing would be sufficient when he came to Finland and would no longer be quarantined. This would be one of the essential measures that could also facilitate the situation of tourism in Lapland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u38	Madam President! Unfortunately, we are back in a situation where we have to discuss the means of limitation. It is good to understand, however, that the situation is very serious. Regional transmission chains have appeared all over Finland, including us in Central Finland. It is not possible to predict the occurrence of outbreaks in advance. This is why it is important that rapid response is possible in different parts of Finland. The provisions on the restriction of the functioning of nutrition movements have been prepared on the basis of data from the corona and its spread during this year. All available international and national data suggest that restaurants and bars are infected facilities. Extensive exposure situations in the bars make it difficult to trace and quarantine those currently exposed, which represents a significant risk of an epidemic accelerating. We must bring back our spring attitude, in which we are genuinely seeking to reduce contacts and to secure ourselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u39	Mr President! It is perfectly understandable that the government is now trying to respond to the worsening disease situation, particularly here in Uusimaa and many other parts of the world. My wish would simply be that a little earlier consideration would be given to the fact that, when you have such a model, where you are prepared for different stages of the epidemic, those measures would already be premeditated, so that once again we will not be in a situation where we are reacting afterwards. Today, the Prime Minister announced that in a week's time, new measures will be announced, and we already know that the infection situation is constantly falling short of what the reality really is. I hope that you will be able to consider once again the right of distance selling of small breweries and allowing for the sale of restaurants in order to save the food sector and, secondly, I hope that the communication will be as clear as possible. For example, last week the THL website did not find the regional review related to the Mask Recommendation, which the Mask Recommendation is valid in which area.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u40	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for this rapid preparation of the law. After very much has come up with this restaurant behavior, then I confess that I have done this sort of look at the way you go there, and yes it goes but gets faster as the evening goes further. So we could return to the old days when a sign came in at 24 hours or at 00:30 at the latest, and by that time we were gathered to make ourselves quite fit. When you look back on how you want to reduce restrictions and inhibitions, when even a little bit of it is in the funnel, it is only a fact that you are prone to spread the corona. For these local constraints:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u41	Mr President! I myself was wondering if you could now tell the Finnish people the ideology of how the virus will be transmitted at 11 a.m. or 3 p.m. at night better or less. Don't you think we should go unpacking these bottlenecks? That could be the solution. If the closing time is 11 o'clock or 12 o'clock, then that bottleneck in that coat is at the time that closing time is. The Finns presented a good alternative to this, but it seems that this is not good enough for the government. I would also like to ask how restaurant entrepreneurs and tourism entrepreneurs can plan their activities when the government's line varies weekly, at its worst even several times a week, or depending on which minister is asked. Did you communicate at all, ministers, among yourselves? Do the ministers have any idea what one of you is doing? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u42	Madam President! This bill is extremely necessary, and this situation around the corona has worsened rapidly, as we have read in today's news. Two points which I would like to draw serious attention to in my own speech. The second is personal responsibility. When you think about it from one’s own immediate circle, that each one of us in our own immediate circle certainly has a person who, when receiving the corona, is virtually in great danger of life. When we think about it in this way that we would like to do something so terrible to our closest friends, perhaps that situation will best open up to each one of us. Let us take good care of them, let us not spread the infection, and let us be extremely careful ourselves. And the second thing: Now that the government's proposal for an infectious disease law is being discussed in committee, I hope that the specific regional situation will be taken into account. Minister Lintilä’s good example: if you can’t open a bar somewhere on Utsjoki
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u43	Madam President! It is now important to send out a clear message on what people are expected to do in addition to legislation. We know that coronavirus disease is likely to be transmitted in places where there are many people in confined spaces, and nutrition movements are also included in this category. That is why I sometimes feel that, for example, the importance of handicraft is overemphasized — even though it is important, but we must of course ensure that the right measures are taken. I would have asked how, among other things, the lack of trackers that is currently being tormented in many places — yes, there are other needs — is being treated so that we are one step ahead of this epidemic at every stage. It is now important to focus support on those sectors that are directly affected by this, but it is also important to be realistic about how:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u44	In this debate, I will give the answers to Mr Kimmo, Mr Junnila and Mr Harjanne, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u45	Mr President! Representative Mäkelä here used a rather strong language from the government in relation to these corona activities, stating that it was “holtless discards”. Yeah, a lot of text, I'd say, briskly reckless. I think that the government has been excellent, very consistent and clearly acting. In his first speech, Mr Kyllönen referred to the fact that the restaurant sector has been one of the biggest sufferers. Yes, it has been, as we have heard today, but the restaurant industry has also been one of the worst links in terms of the fact that the corona has spread most of these places, and it has been reasonable in that respect that the government has determined to create new types of rules for restaurant behaviour. I think learning by doing has been great for the government that this performance is different from the spring. Now there is the flexibility that we were calling for at the time. Other types of restrictions are used in areas at risk of acceleration than in other areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u46	Madam President! When will this end? This is not going to help any state media information campaign. It doesn't help to scare people. You can't lock people in a basement. Such activities are not compatible with life. When is it recognised here that the virus is not won by denying living? When is it recognised here that life should continue despite the virus and that we should live with it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u47	Madam President! This co-vid-19 is spreading in a cluster. That infectivity is apparently in a certain way pareto-divided, i.e. someone is not infecting anyone and someone is infecting dozens, and it is precisely this cluster-like infectivity that makes this regional demarcation very difficult when it is not known. The example of Vaasa brought by Mr Berg is a good example of why it is difficult to define the region. Unfortunately, restaurants are apparently one of the sources of these clusters, and that is why this proposal is needed. This is, of course, bad news for entrepreneurs in the industry and, of course, also for lovers of restaurant culture. These difficult decisions highlight the need for clear communication, and this clear communication would help us to have a well-assessed comprehensive public database and statistics on the sources and situations of infection. I understand that THL is a compilation of this, but I would have liked to have heard more about this from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u48	And Minister Kiuru, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u49	Mr President! Here are a few key themes that I think we should go over again. This proposal is exactly the same as the one that was brought here when we were at the very heart of the crisis, and in that respect there are two big edges. The second is that these measures must always be absolutely necessary, and the second important frame of reference is that we should take a regional look at the situation on the basis of which the regulation is based on these restrictive measures. And I would like to say to you that the new standard in Finland is that no region is essentially safe. It cannot be thought that there is no need for restaurant restrictions in my region, possibly because of the fact that the region is currently safe. All the examples from Finland up to now show that when it becomes an infectious cluster, at its worst it gets even worse when nutrition stores produce the resulting continuation of further infections. In this regard, we are faced with very big questions here in Parliament, that which goes ahead, health or the economy. It is pointless for you to put such a question because health and the economy go hand in hand if this disease situation gets so much worse that Finland is in the process of spreading. And I'm here all the time saying the same thing about these infectious measures having to be done here and now. We don't have time to procrastinate. This applies not only to the regions, but also to the commitment of the whole population to the need to control this disease. It is the only way to live with this disease for a long time to control it. I'm sure everyone is fond of those days of tolerance, because it's the best way to control the disease, and that's why anything that's not there requires strong action at the regional level now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u50	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u51	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u52	Mr President! Restrictions on the business activities of restaurants have a large impact on employment. In view of the cost to the restaurant industry and society of restrictions, it is very important that we weigh very carefully on the grounds on which we restrict restaurant activities and how well these measures actually help to prevent the spread of the corona virus. There is no precise information on how much of the recent coronavirus infections have started in nutrition movements. However, it is known that much more of the infections observed in the autumn have been observed in young people who typically have active social life. In the spring, the testing capacity was substantially lower, leaving young people's ills largely undetected. Due to the testing capacity, the levels of infection between spring and autumn are not at all comparable. The cases found are currently of the same magnitude as in the spring, but there are far fewer serious cases than they were then. The number of people in hospital and intensive care is now a fraction of the level of spring. Mr President! Many restaurant entrepreneurs have rightly asked whether past closures of restaurants effectively restrict people’s celebrations, or whether the party is only more sensitive to uncontrolled conditions, such as homes. In this case, the risk of infection is likely to increase due to the narrower spaces and restaurant facilities compared to the lower ventilation. Early closing of restaurants also easily leads to congestion and disorder in their immediate vicinity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u53	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Administrative Committee and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. After the Minister's presentation, the debate will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u54	Mr President! This is a government proposal, which is divided into two parts: the amendment of the Act on Diseases and the amendment of the Act on Transport Services. The proposal already enables the transition from internal border control to cooperation between countries through testing of the country of origin, which also promotes export activities, production and services and international mobility without compromising the health safety of Finns — an inch at all. Finland has managed to manage the pandemic and to mitigate its financial consequences so far well, in international comparison even excellently. It's due to test, track, isolate, take care of model. Continuous vigilance and hygiene guidelines, small tightening ups and small exemptions have proved to be much safer and more effective than the extremist movements in some countries, namely the one-off abolition of restrictions and the subsequent drastic closures that destroy the economy. Instead of these extremist movements, the government is moving in cautious steps towards the next phase of corona management, i.e. the test and come model. This model is based on testing in the country of origin where a passenger arriving in Finland must be accompanied by a negative test certificate up to 72 hours old or certified by a certified doctor for an improved coronavirus disease. The National Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) determines the higher incidence countries or regions of countries from which future persons are obliged to do so. Once the certificate has been presented to health authorities or border inspection authorities on arrival, the consignee may be quarantined. This may be released if the second test carried out not earlier than 72 hours is negative. A shorter visit would not require another test. People living in Finland are not required to have a negative test certificate when returning home. When they arrived from countries with a higher incidence, they would be directed to tests and quarantine in Finland. The draft law also provides for exceptions to the day-to-day movement within the border community, as well as, of course, transport staff and other special groups. This part is a change in the Act on Diseases, which has been made in excellent cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and Minister Kiuru. The second part is the amendment of the Transport Services Act. It obliges the airline, shipowner or other transport service provider to assist the passenger in the notification of the certificates and tests required by Finland. This obligation to notify is monitored by the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency Traficom. Mr President! These proposed measures are temporary and would remain in force until the end of next year. Following the completion of the Government’s proposal, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has also announced that new assessments have emerged in relation to the amendments to the Act on Diseases. The estimates of the National Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) should certainly be taken into account in the committees' deliberations here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u57	Now I ask those representatives who want to use the reply to the question, to stand up and press the V button from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u58	Mr President! This is a very important bill. In particular, my attention is focused on the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases, which concerns restrictions on travel, possible quarantine. The problem with this proposal is that according to the Act on communicable diseases, and even after this proposal, the starting point is that quarantine will be imposed by the doctor responsible for the disease in the region or hospital district on the basis of an individual assessment. That is also what our Constitution requires in the quarantine regulations. What is at the heart of this is that we want to safeguard and ensure safe tourism. And now I was very pleased that the Minister said in his speech that new information has come from THL just recently on how this could be safely arranged so that, as soon as we arrive here, that one test will be carried out and all the quarantine talks could be forgotten. Of course, in those cases, quarantine could come if it was a negative test.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u59	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. Of course, this situation is constantly changing, not for the better, unfortunately, but for the worse, and we must live up to it. And you have to learn to live with this corona for a long time. Health is the most important thing, and there is hardly any disagreement about it, but the next step is the economy, because it is also indirectly well-being and health. And minimal restrictions must indeed be made in the places where they need to be done and in those areas. I am now interested in tourism and, as Mrs Salmon has already mentioned it, yesterday when two ministers said in public and now Minister Harakka here that the THL has made new recommendations, I would ask: what are they? We've got to get them out of there fast. And the next question: when will they come into force? It is extremely important for the tourism industry to be brought into force as quickly as possible, especially if:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u60	Madam President! There's one point I'd like to get more specific. It says here that ‘released persons whose entry is based on a serious threat to health or safety in society’. Who are these people, and why are they so-called outside this regulation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u61	Mr President! It is very important that this Government proposal, presented very clearly by the Minister, secures travel from abroad to Finland. In my opinion, negative testing in the country of origin increases safety absolutely and also the courage to come here, from abroad to Finland. Easy retesting depending on travel time is important. Of course, if it lasts less than three days, there is no need for retesting, but it is important that testing after three days is easy. So I strongly support this test and come model. I am sure that there will be a number of points in the committee's deliberations that will have to be more specific, and what is there to say about the STM, but good work will be done there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u62	Madam President! This test and come model, which is now under discussion, puts us in a challenging situation. This virus is changing all the time. Fortunately, information has increased since spring. For several months now, we have information on what increases the risk and what could be a safe course of action. The only way to bring tourism to a sustainable recovery is to control the epidemic. Testing and quarantine are essential to curb the disease situation. At the same time, we must remember the Constitution and international treaties, which are why we cannot prevent Finns from entering on any pretext. Passengers arriving from the country with a higher incidence may be subject to testing and quarantine. This week, Finland’s disease situation has started to rise rapidly, so we should be able to assess this more easily if the situation changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u63	Madam President! From the point of view of travel, these regulations are extremely important, as many Members have pointed out here, but where certificates are given, it is also possible to distribute false certificates. That is why I would have asked whether there is now any uniform regulation at EU level as to what type of certificate this should be, or whether it is the case that there are very different medical certificates or other certificates from each country that suggest that this is the right one. For example, there is no possibility of such a shady business, which sells different types of fake certificates that allow citizens to travel from one country to another? For example, has there been any discussion of this at EU ministerial level so that this could also work at European level?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u64	Madam President! The proposed requirement can well be considered acceptable and reasonable in view of the objectives of the legislation. Of course, it would have been desirable for the tourist entrepreneurs not to have faced this counterpart any more, but when the interest rate roars, action is required. It must of course be borne in mind that more fundamental rights-related proposals are very much to be considered in this proposal when it comes to the right to live in the light of freedom of movement and freedom of business, privacy and equality, so there is no simple whole. It is good that the ministries have been able to cooperate. Let us hope that we have reliable rapid-measurement methods in place everywhere as a matter of urgency, and that this will also be dealt with in a smart way. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u65	Mr President, värderade talman! Vi kan inte helt stunga in oss på grund av coronapandemin. Det finns många orsaker för både oss finländare och utlänningar att korsa våra gränser för arbetspendling, för nödvändiga arbetsresor och av personalliga orsaker. Världen kan inte stanna upp men epidmins spridning måste förhindras.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u66	Mr President! This test and come model is sensible and important. As a country, we have succeeded if, in this situation, we can prevent the spread of the corona epidemic in Finland and at the same time increase the confidence of passengers in the safety of cross-border travel. We will see a win-win situation if, with this approach, including the test requirement, we manage not only to dismantle entry restrictions but also to combat corona pandemic at borders. Of course, one way or another, the testing model costs less than the worse the disease situation. For many people concerned, it would be important for these border and passenger issues to have as much continuity and predictability as possible. Of course, the challenge is enormous in this constantly changing and serious situation. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u67	Madam President! Korona has been among us for quite a long time, and we must be prepared that this will not be over in just a moment. That is why these measures, which we are now discussing with regard to this proposal, must be effective and very well-founded, why they are to be introduced and what benefits they will bring. With regard to this proposal, the tourism industry in particular has expressed great concerns about this 72-hour limit, and last night several government measures, including Minister Lintila, raised this issue. Now I ask Minister Haraka: are you now proposing some changes to this proposal, since it seems that some new information has been brought up?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u68	Madam President! This model, which is now being presented — the travel bubble, we might call it — must not be a bubble of soap. So that one loophole among them, which makes it possible for the infection to spread, of course, is a setback. Florence Nightingale is the one who once brought this idea of hygiene into the world, and I would like you, Minister Kiuru, to take this role even more and more prominently. It was a very fine speech from you just now, and you stressed the importance of us people actually taking up this serious situation. I would like you to organise an information campaign once again, in which all citizens are actually reminded, because it is up to us — these sources of infection and the fact that the disease is spreading — and so that it also affects young people. I am concerned about high school students and schools, and I would like to see masks in schools so that students can take them. This is up to us, it's in our hands, and I think it's up to the handicraft.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u69	Madam President! Here is the word ‘rapid test’ mentioned a few times,and it has gone on a regular basis. I look forward to the views of the ministers in this regard, and I am sure that we will be able to use the latest information that relates to them in committee. This presentation has been made with the idea that if we draw certain dates and hours on the timeline, this will be quite effective in so far as the tourist stays in Finland for less than 72 hours, it will not be problematic. But for more than 72 hours this quarantine requirement and then the test — everyone understands in practice that feedback from travel producers or service providers is justifiable. And if we can now replace this stage with better rapid tests, which we have been waiting for and hoped for all along and which are supposedly coming at least on a timetable, it will change this quite substantially, and then we will be able to get into a well-functioning situation. I would like to see a view of this myself from the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u70	Madam President! It is important for travel to have corona safety practices at borders. In this proposal, the authorities responsible for the fight against communicable diseases in the municipalities would be responsible for ensuring on arrival that passengers were accompanied either by a negative test result or by a medical report on an existing disease. Of course, this also entails costs for various authorities: the Border Guard, Customs, the municipal infectious disease authorities, among other things. I would have asked about these resources: In what way have they been taken into account and how are they secured? How will we also ensure that the personnel are sufficient for sampling and also for the rest of the population? I would also like to ask whether the use of coronas is to be extended to ports in addition to the airport?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u71	Madam President! This is a good continuum for the previous debate where we talked about restrictions on restaurants. And now, of course, as a common concern, we have tourism here. We have heard a lot of talk recently about tourism in Lapland and saving it. The Government's proposal is in line with the government's own hybrid strategy and is a solid part of it. Since we have so far been very successful in managing the corona epidemic and in managing the economy, it is important that we continue to do so. As Minister Harakka said, in order for this to be possible, we need to make well-considered and moderate and necessary reductions in the restrictions. The aim is to ensure health safety, but at the same time to promote the export industry, production and services that are important to Finland through the testing of the country of origin. In many speeches, rapid tests, reliable tests have been carried out, and I see that they would help us fight this virus in many respects.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u72	Mr President! It is good that this travel is now being sought to create this kind of model with which it would be safely possible. I, too, would like to ask a specific question about coronas, which have now been experimentally used at the airport, and the government has also promised to pay kindly for the test. Health safety at the airport is the responsibility of the City of Vantaa, and these dogs are also under its authority. However, I understand that the wider introduction of dogs would require a change in the law, which would give these dogs this kind of so-called official status. Would it be possible to bring this kind of legal change to the parliament with a quick schedule so that the use of dogs can be extended? In addition, I would also like the ministers to respond to it — such rapid testing by dogs is very painless and quick — that it would also be possible to ensure that those dogs could now be systematically trained in larger quantities. I would also like to mention the wish of the Coronation Coordination Group of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, which is now trying to communicate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u73	Mr President! With regard to these travel restrictions, communication from the government and from the authorities has been rather confusing, certainly for understandable reasons, because the epidemic situation has changed. In particular, however, I believe that clarification would be required on the concept of quarantine, coercive quarantine, self-imposed quarantine and control of quarantine. Minister Harakka here said that, in addition to this testing in the country of origin, the Border Guard or the official doctor will impose this quarantine, but I understand that the Border Guard does not have any authority to impose quarantine. My question is: how does this work in practice so that the public knows? Is every passenger, whether he comes from the eastern border or from the airport, actually being quarantined, or is this a question of self-preservation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u74	Madam President! The Government's proposal guarantees us safe travel from abroad to Finland. The test-and-come model is justified. Once rapid tests and corona dogs are still widely deployed at the border, we can bring tourists safely to the sparsely populated region of Lapland and elsewhere in Finland. Safe nature tourism in sparsely populated areas is highlighted during the Korona era. The more decentralised and small-scale activities are, the more controlled and safer they are. This activity should also be promoted after the interest rate. Many people want to travel to the silence of Finnish nature. I would like to ask the Minister: how do we take account of the different terrain between small operators and larger tourist centres, so that not everyone is put on the same plate?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u75	Madam President! Different countries have different ways of being quarantined when you come to the country, and now that you try to increase such short-term vacations, the question arises as to what will then be done in practice, if someone wants a longer time to come, wants to go to quarantine. Where's he going to be quarantined? In other words, I understand that it is now the case that we have to get a place and control the reality of whether it will happen or not. For example, in Thailand, which is a holiday destination popular by Finns, if you go there, you have to stay in a hotel for two weeks, and you can only go out of the room for a few hours a day. In other words, it is the responsibility of the authorities to ensure that it is implemented. The authenticity of the certificate raised by Mrs Essayah is also a good thing, which would also be good in the preparation. Then the question itself: there is a statement here in the government proposal that the competent authorities consider that they do not have the resources to carry out the supervisory tasks proposed in the government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u76	Irade the Talman! Förslagets målsättning är mycket bra och skulle kunna underlätta resandet, vilket är viktigt. Tack för ministers goda presentation. Det är också viktigt att säkerstalla att det raj lagförslaget inte ytterligare försvår umgänget i gränsregioner och det är viktigt att reda ut de frågetecken som finns. Några exempel från Åland: 25 percent av läkarna på Ålands sjukhus, Liksom övrig sjukårdspersonal, kommer från Sverige. De kan i dag pendla utanta, viiket är livsviktigt för sjukgården. Kommer de kunna fortsätta att göra det? Det borde de få göra. Hur är det också med fabillioner, exempelvis en frånskild mor i Sverige som har delad vårdnad över sitt barn på Åland men utan att vara finsk medborgare — behover Hon ta ett test för att komma och se sitt barn? Och hur är det med vuxna med rötter på Åland eller i Finland, men utan dubbelt medborgarskap, som vill komma hem och träffa sina gamla förläldrar? De har i dag rätt att resa in utan test. Kommer de i framtide behöva test? För höginkomstagare är det ox inget problemm, men det kan vara mycket durt för många att ta de bull testerna.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u77	Madam President! Yesterday, the government has referred to the need to amend the proposal after the adoption of this government's proposal, and Minister Harakka also referred to this in his presentation and further suggested that Parliament would then correct these points. I think it would have been reasonable, at the very least, for Minister Harakka, or Minister Kiuru, to have, in this referral to the bill, told us what the changes that have been considered within the government and for which it is expected that Parliament will make the changes. I believe they are good changes. I also believe that they would facilitate tourism in Lapland. The best boys in Lapland, representatives of Autto and Salmon, have brought up the points that have been made here and I hope that they can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u78	Mr President! This test and future measure to promote tourism is appropriate and well thought out. The Minister stated that this is a temporary measure, but when it extends to 2021 it will be relatively long, and the Minister mentioned that in this respect the EU will now, in a way, be using internal border control in a different way than in the past. I would like to ask how far these measures have now been coordinated within the EU and, above all, coordinated internationally. Testing was one of the points raised here by Mr Essayah as to whether there are uniform procedures, but this model, which Finland is now adopting, seems reasonable within the three-day limitation period. Could this become an international practice of this kind, which would make it easier to travel internationally in general, not just for Finland? Are we coordinating this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u79	Mr President! Travel during an epidemic is always the sum of many factors: whether people dare to travel, whether they have the opportunity to travel, how air travel works and so on. However, I very much appreciate the fact that the government is always prepared to rely on the latest expertise. However, I would ask that people as if they could keep up with Finland's operating principles, both in us and elsewhere: how could the government support, for example, information centres in Lapland so that, for example, the British tourist knows how Finland operates and how this kind of corona-safe travel is carried out in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u80	Mr President! In Finland, these restrictions have been stricter than in many other EU countries. This has led to many European airlines operating Finnair in more countries and has therefore been able to restore their operations to 50 to 60 per cent of the year before, while Finnair has only 20 per cent. Now that we look at this two-test problem, it will certainly lead to tourists going to countries where two tests are not required. My question to Mr Haraka: are you going to raise at EU ministerial level the issue of achieving uniform practices with regard to these test requirements? Many countries then have their own limitations, but how to act between the Schengen countries and the EU countries on their borders could make sense to harmonise.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u81	In this debate, I would like to make two more replies, representatives of Pierine and Salmon, and then Minister Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u82	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for this presentation. As has been said here in a great many speeches, there is a very important issue: tourism — possibly even job tourism — and the way in which other countries can then come to Finland. This introduction states that ‘At the time that Finland is coming to Finland, it is the least 72 hours since he has received a What are the possible test methods in these other countries, where are we coming from? Is it possible that 72 hours will be filled, or is it, then, that as soon as you get here, the quarantine will hit you so that you can't even get back? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u83	Mr President! The economy and health really go hand in hand. And it is the case that, if our economy is destroyed, at least in the medium term, it will also have a negative impact on human health. The plight of the tourism industry affects the whole of Finland — it can be said that the region of Uusimaa and Lapland in particular. Why Lapland? Because there its relative share of all business and employment is quite significant. The latest forecasts predict that if we cannot open up tourism, next summer we will have 8,000 more unemployed people in Lapland because of this, and it will be a huge amount of people in relation to what is there, and it will be a huge plight that will arise from it. That is why it is extremely important, as Mr Harakka has said here, that the present proposal could be adjusted in such a way that we manage the risks of corona, but also that we are able to operate tourism safely. If we have a quarantine requirement, it is clear that no one will come — no one will come into quarantine abroad. Yes, the only way is to take the first test as soon as you get down and as a quick test,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u84	Secretary Harakka, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u85	Mr President! Thank you to the representatives for a good and proper and responsible debate. We're learning to live in a corona world. All the time we get more information about the image and nature of the disease. And that is why the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and its expert organisation, THL, are constantly assessing, every day, every moment, new information, new calculations, new assessments of how this disease is managed, and that is why the committees really need to hear these assessments carefully. This comment to the representatives of Salmon, Lindén and Zyskowicz. Mr Räsänen rightly drew attention to the fact that, under Article 60 of the Act on communicable diseases, this quarantine is to be imposed by an infectious doctor of a municipality or a joint municipal authority. Article 3 of the same Act does not, however, describe in very detail what this quarantine is like. The impression that it would mean staring at the walls of the hotel room is not necessarily true, and in that regard Mr Kivisaari is certainly right — of course this is Minister Kiuru’s affair, but I imagine that it would certainly be of general interest to have more detailed descriptions of what this quarantine could be like. Mr Essayah has paid very good attention to the very thing that we have certainly all wondered about: how to guarantee that the certificate is genuine. Some of the features of this bill have been identified, but it is possible that the regulations would still have to be supplemented. Moreover, unfortunately, in the EU at all, common criteria have not been found, for example with regard to such an internationally standardised and acceptable infectious disease certificate. It would be very useful, in response to Mr Kauma too, to standardise these. Mr Löfström asked about the status of the Ålanders. Article 16a, paragraf 1, has to some extent answered the question that daily commuting between Sweden and Finland would be one of these exceptions. And then Mr Laakso asked what this wording meant by this sudden danger to social infrastructure, which is threatening health and safety. This means, of course, that there is a danger of such a sudden threat to such a large part of the population that there is absolutely no time for such a certificate, and here reference is made in particular to the safety of nuclear installations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u86	This is the end of the debate, and let us start with the list of speakers. Let us take at least one floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u87	Madam President! However, we are still a little surprised at the Minister's reply, because here in the Chamber a number of Members asked specifically that, now that a number of speeches have been made by the government suggesting that some changes could be made to this proposal in this House, it would certainly be very desirable to tell this Chamber now that there are quite a number of Members of Parliament here, as representatives of the various committees, that what are the concrete changes — what does the government see as being possible to do with this proposal at this point? However, many times the concern of the tourism industry about this proposal, especially this 72-hour limit, has been raised here, and now that information has come to light that the THL sees that this limit is not necessarily so justified, but that it could also apply this border testing, as it were, and that it could achieve this same benefit, so on, Mr President, I would ask: what are these concrete means and changes? What, then, does the government see in this situation that can be done in this regard? How will this proposal also be amended in order to bring about a proposal which at the same time will ensure a smooth entry and also that our tourism industry survives this unprecedented crisis? These things can be combined, but it would now be very important to hear in this House what the concrete changes are and what the government will present in this proposal. Unfortunately, Mr President, we did not hear this in the recent debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u88	On this point, I will give the floor to Minister Kiuru. He is the second minister of responsibility for the presentation of the matter. — Minister Kiuru, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u89	Thank you, Mr President. This proposal now makes it possible to promote free movement within the EU. Finland is one of the key countries in which it will be possible to do so by means of this prior testing requirement, and hence the legislative proposal before us today, and this is absolutely essential in this proposal. In order to get people to come, we have to make it possible, and with this presentation this is possible on a large scale. It must be borne in mind that our country's testing capacity will always be limited, and in that respect it will ensure that it does not depend on the testing capacity of this country if the conditions for free movement are met to come to our country. With this proposal, which Mr Harakka has brought here, it will be possible in the future, and I believe that it will have a great deal of support here in Parliament. The second thing that this proposal makes possible is what has actually been done across Europe and what the representatives have given in this debate – both here and in the previous one – examples: both these quarantine recommendations and quarantine recommendations have been made in various countries to protect human health and spirit, and this was something that Mrs Räsänen spoke about here. And so that we can shorten the times that need to be spent under sheltered conditions without endangering the health and life of others, this proposal specifically allows us to shorten this time that has been made for the protection of others. It is clear, however, that it is possible, outside this proposal, to consider otherwise, as Mr Ben Zyskowicz and many of you have asked, for example. You will then pay particular attention to how health authorities will deal with individual issues when a new approach is introduced. These are the examples that have now come to light in the two to three weeks that we have been implementing this new approach, and I have
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u90	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u91	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u92	Mr President! Currently, almost every European country exceeds the Finnish limit value for the high risk incidence of coronavirus. It is therefore necessary that it is also possible to travel here without quarantine if, on leaving the country of origin, you present a negative test result less than 72 hours old or a certified medical certificate for a diseased but improved laboratory confirmed coronavirus disease. Transport companies must be obliged to monitor the implementation of the provision in order to avoid unnecessary travel and renunciations from the border. Mr President! Fortunately, the government has promised changes to its proposal, which in its current form would in practice prevent tourism to Finland. For example, in order to save and exploit a situation where Finland could attract tourists who would normally choose another destination for winter holiday, a negative test result or a certificate of improved coronavirus infection in the tourist's home country is sufficient grounds for arriving on holiday in Finland. In this way the winter season of Finnish Lapland could be carried out relatively safely.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u93	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u94	Madam President! This proposal proposes to amend the Unemployment Fund Act, to amend the Unemployment Fund Act temporarily, and also to amend the Act on the financing of unemployment benefits. The Act on the Unemployment Fund proposes to increase the conditions for the financing of unemployment funds, which are now laid down in the Financial Supervisory Authority’s collection of regulations and guidelines. Similarly, it is proposed to include in the Unemployment Fund Act provisions on the financial recovery plan of the unemployment fund, a procedure now based on the established practice of applying the Financial Supervisory Authority. These changes are proposed for an indefinite period and the substance of the case would not actually change. However, the heart of the proposal is the solution in order to safeguard the economic viability of the unemployment funds. In the second and fourth amending budgets for the current year, a total of EUR 60 million has already been allocated for this purpose. The sum of 20 million is intended to mitigate the impact of the increased number of applications and administrative costs resulting from the covid-19 epidemic. In turn, EUR 40 million has been allocated to the partial compensation of the own contribution of the cashier resulting from the increased benefit expenditure resulting from the epidemic of insurance unemployment funds and the changes to the Unemployment Security Act. In addition to these already allocated funds, the government has decided, in the context of the budget debate, to propose that the corresponding increase in own financial responsibility due to increased benefit expenditure be partly compensated for by the self-employed unemployment fund. For this purpose, the seventh draft amending budget will propose an amount of EUR 2.2 million. Due to the effects of the epidemic, increased unemployment and lay-offs, unemployment funds are economically hard. The amendments to the Unemployment Protection Act, which have secured the livelihood of unemployed people who have not received income as a result of the epidemic, have also increased the benefit expenditure and the proportion of this benefit expenditure financed by the cashiers themselves. Last year, when preparing for this year, many unemployment funds had a very different outlook. In their own economy, unemployment funds have not been able to prepare for the impact of the epidemic and the measures taken to control the epidemic on employment in their membership. These changes will resolve the need for legislation to allocate the funds mentioned above. The preparation of next year's budget and the related proposal for membership contributions is currently under way in the unemployment funds. The aim of this package is to allow the funds earmarked to be distributed to the unemployment funds already this year on a schedule which would allow the cashiers to take into account the exceptional additional contributions granted by the State to them when making future proposals for membership contributions. To this end, laws are proposed to enter into force as soon as possible. Additional funding for unemployment funds would be one-off and therefore the provisions on the allocation of funds would remain in force until the end of this year. However, it is proposed that the provisions on the treatment of the potential deficit of the unemployment fund be in force until the end of next year. This will avoid a situation in which the state, after pre-supporting unemployment funds, would still have to finance a further deficit supplement if the situation of unemployment funds in the rest of the year were to deteriorate unforeseeably at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u95	Madam President! As the Minister said, in these two areas, the practices of the Financial Supervisory Authority are being transposed into the legislation, that is to say, when we talk about these provisions on financial consolidation and also the provisions on the degree of funding, and nothing really changes in the way things are handled by you. But then the steak of this proposal goes hand in hand with the money already provided by Parliament in its amending budgets, which shows that the epidemic has indeed caused increasing unemployment and, consequently, the need for cashiers' own resources is also high, and the state now wants to compensate for this situation. In this context, it is not possible to avoid a debate on the need to consider extending earnings-related unemployment benefit to all. In this situation too, we see that the state is helping these unemployment funds, which makes it difficult to imagine why our legislation and practices have taken the path that we do not believe that earnings-related unemployment benefits belong to everyone and not just to the members of the funds. I would also like to thank the Minister for the forthcoming proposal — the proposal, which then comes under amending budget No 7 — relating to this unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs, although it has not yet been realised, because it must be said that, during this epidemic, one of the most important changes in unemployment security could be said, however, that the unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs has been opened up. In the Parliamentary Committee on Social Security, we must also take this into account in some way and consider the way in which the unemployment security of entrepreneurs will be provided for in the future. We have seen here over the years that the adjusted daily allowance is not always a successful option. Then, on the other hand, when, in this situation, some of the entrepreneurs are actually out of business, it is extremely important that we have quickly found such a model, which has led to the plight of entrepreneurs in this situation. But this is the kind of work that I hope will then be considered further, including in the post-column period, how we will be able to continue to provide this unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs and get legislation on it, and then on the other hand to ensure that their business activities can continue after this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u96	Madam President! In previous discussions, this possibility for entrepreneurs to have access to additional funding for this entrepreneurship fund was very much on the agenda, and I would like to thank the government for taking this matter seriously in these new proposals. I would like to congratulate Mrs Essayah on the fact that, at least for our party, Mr Arhinmäki, the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group, promised us that we would be active, as long as we were prepared to extend the pay-as-you-go system to everyone, as long as unemployment and the membership of the fund also affect all the players and then create legal contact with these unemployment insurance contributions. I'm sure we'll be able to get to these in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u97	Mr President! I think it is important that the financial capacity of the unemployment funds is safeguarded, and this bill is therefore also a good one. In this context, however, I would like to raise two additional points, the first being that I have understood that the government's employment policies have presented a thousand new people to the TE Centres. I would like you, Minister, to consider not all these people going to the TE Centres but also to consider investing them in, for example, unemployment funds and other such companies that know the market and are able to invest in unemployed people. Similarly, these unemployment funds have a good knowledge of their own cashiers and may be better able to help those who have become unemployed than the Employment and Economic Development Centres. Mr President! The second point in this connection is that in many areas, such as travel and accommodation, 200 lay-off days are beginning to come to an end at this time around September/October, and that means that many of these people who have been laid off during this period may feel that they have been laid off and, in particular, small employers can bring about considerable financial difficulties and even bankruptcy. I would therefore like you, Minister, to talk in the government about the possibility of extending this 200 days of lay-off to, for example, 300 days or 400 days, because we have a number of areas which suffer even more than usual from these travel restrictions and assembly restrictions which still affect the future, or at least beyond next year, many sectors. Therefore, such an additional regulation would certainly help these companies and their people to survive.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u98	Secretary Bakonen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your excellent contributions. As I have said before in this Chamber, the report on this general income security will be completed next year, and the time for conclusions will come after that. At the moment, however, we are living within the existing system and, through this, we are securing the livelihood of people now in the midst of the crisis. Mr Essayah's comments on strengthening the unemployment security of entrepreneurs are very important, and the clarification of these in the Social Committee to which he referred is a matter for all of us. I thank Mr Kauma for these lunches. These things you mentioned belong to Minister Haatainen's property, but they also go into the debate within the government. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u100	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u101	Madam President! This proposal proposes to amend the law on the financing of unemployment benefits and the law on education and training compensation. The proposed amendments to the Act on the financing of unemployment benefits are related to the abolition of the ex ante model for the collection of unemployment insurance contributions. It is proposed that the procedure for collecting unemployment insurance contributions be amended so that it is based solely on the actual payment of wages. As a result of the proposed amendment, the law would no longer have the possibility of a preliminary recovery of unemployment insurance contributions. Only 0.35% of unemployment insurance contributions have been paid through the ex ante procedure and only about 1% of employers have used it. Most For the Fund's customers, a settlement model is used whereby payments are determined on the basis of the amount of wages paid ex post. The maintenance of two methods of recovery cannot be considered justified or administratively reasonable. The abolition of the ex ante model would have no impact on the determination of unemployment insurance contributions or on the overall accumulation of the ESF funding. Nor would it change the financial relations between the various contributors to unemployment insurance. In addition, it is proposed to amend the Education Compensation Act so that the minimum amount of compensation to be recovered and reimbursed would be EUR 10. Recovery and repayment of amounts less than this cannot be considered administratively reasonable. It is also proposed to repeal the references in the law to the precedent and to make other technical corrections to the references in Article 9 of the Law. It is proposed that the procedure for collecting unemployment insurance contributions be amended so that it is based solely on the actual payment of wages. As a result of the proposed amendment, the law would no longer have the possibility of a preliminary recovery of unemployment insurance contributions, i.e. the so-called 'preliminary model' of recovery would be abandoned. The only thing that has been paid through the preliminary procedure is — excuse me, Mr President — I am going to be jumping over again. But, ladies and gentlemen, most of the customers of the Employment Fund use a method of recovery in which payments are determined on the basis of the amount of wages paid afterwards. — Like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u102	Madam President! I think the President will change on that flight too, but thank you to the Minister for his presentation. In other words, the essence of this proposal is precisely that, at the moment, when only 1% of employers use this method of advance payment, the maintenance of two separate forms of payment is certainly a simple and purely additional cost. This advance does not seem to be of great importance when, in the main, these unemployment insurance contributions are paid when we know the amount of wages that has been paid, and this is also the way in which it is paid. Mr President! This seems to be a welcome and good performance and, in fact, with regard to these training allowances, I would have brought the field’s greetings from the entrepreneur field. In other words, this job learning and training in addition to work would have a much greater enthusiasm and willingness in the entrepreneurial field to open up opportunities for young people, and why not for parents, such as those who change the profession, but many people feel that at the moment the way in which employers are treated in this situation is not something that motivates them to take the matter forward. I hope, Minister, that when we are discussing the apprenticeship system and then the reform of vocational training and these traineeships, it will be taken into account that there is a willingness in the business field, but many people feel that, since it is not yet a skilled worker, they would be happy to hope that it will be possible to take better account of the different bureaucracy and many other things which then have to do with these training events. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u103	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Here too, 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u104	Mr President! The Government proposes to amend the Income Tax Act and some other laws so that in Finland a foreign entity with its actual head office in Finland would also be regarded as a taxable person in general. Currently, only the domestic community, i.e. a Finnish limited liability company for example, could be regarded as a taxable person in Finland in general. The aim of the performance is good in itself, as it is intended to prevent the activities in which Finnish operators register the company abroad for the purpose of minimising taxes, even though the company’s business is in practice managed from Finland. Such companies would in future have to pay the tax on their entire income in Finland, which can be considered fair. In the past, it has been more difficult for the Tax Administration to intervene in such activities. However, the bill may also lead to undesirable effects, as the proposed provision is open to interpretation and may also affect Finnish groups whose foreign subsidiaries have board members who live in Finland. Such arrangements are very common in international groups for administrative reasons and do not involve reprehensible tax planning purposes. It is important that the precise guidance of the Tax Administration ensures that the proposed provisions cannot be applied arbitrarily in situations where taxpayers have acted in good faith.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u105	Mr President! ‘I can’t help but think that this tax avoidance is making it more difficult to make I have taken the floor because I too would like to praise this motion. It is excellent that the government intervenes in tax evasion with this bill. Taxation is a very central tool when we want to bring society in a better direction. Aggressive tax planning, on the other hand, is a shocking problem that makes it difficult to finance public services and thus to achieve valuable social objectives, such as reducing inequalities. It is absolutely essential that countries be able to defend their own financial base and intervene in tax planning. Well, this proposal was indeed agreed in the government negotiations, and the idea here is that those companies that have sufficient ties with Finland are generally considered taxable here – that is how it should be. In practical terms, this means that it is now difficult to exploit the companies registered abroad in the form of tax avoidance. When the company’s ownership, management and operations are in Finland, taxes are also due in Finland. Up to now, companies have been subject to general taxation in Finland only if they are established in accordance with Finnish legislation or registered in Finland, and there is now a gap in tax legislation, and that gap has been exploited to create passive holding companies and shell companies in other countries. In this way it has been possible to avoid tax liability in Finland. Well, in the future, such use of shell companies for tax avoidance purposes will then be more difficult. In this respect, of course, the aim is also to ensure the accumulation of corporate tax revenue, i.e. when this legislative amendment succeeds in its objective, it will also extend the Finnish tax base, which is very welcome in this situation. The draft law was also praised for the fact that the draft was substantially improved after this consultation. Of course, other concrete measures are needed when we intervene in tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning, but this in itself is a good and important proposal. Thank the government for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u106	Mr President! This reform is one of the proposals we have put forward in the government negotiations to curb tax avoidance and one of the most important legislative proposals in this government to combat tax evasion and the shadow economy. The reform expands and strengthens Finland's tax base and prevents arrangements to avoid Finnish taxation by registering a company abroad, even if the company's ownership, management and operations are here in Finland. Until now, foreign entities have not been generally considered taxable here. This gap in tax legislation has been exploited, for example, by setting up passive investment holding companies in other countries to avoid taxation. In practice, these companies usually involve companies established for the management of one or a few Finnish investment assets. It is important that the Government's proposal clearly states that holding companies are also subject to the law if the decisions relevant to their operation are taken in Finland. The aim of the proposal is also to improve the compatibility of Finnish legislation with the resolution of double-dressing situations in the communities and to increase the possibilities for solving these situations in Finland’s interest. Fair taxation is patriotism at its best. As a result of this change, domestic regulation is equivalent to regulation in a number of other countries. Taxes must be paid where profits are made, and the poorest countries, of course, are the most affected by tax leakages, but we too have even deliberately drilled holes in the tax base to the detriment of the richest and the rest of society. Mr President! Korona has emphasised the strength of a well-being state built on a functioning tax system, and the Nordic economy has been the least affected by the crisis in the European countries and Finland has done best in the Nordic countries. In order to address the economic crisis, efforts to strengthen the tax base need to be stepped up. In the Government Programme we have a number of good reports to carry out, and I hope that the Minister of Finance will dare to go further than the Government Programme. For the Left Alliance, the consolidation of the tax base is one of the key issues. You know, when scammers around taxes, everybody else pays more. A tax collector eats every one of us at the table. The main problem with the current tax system is, of course, that capital flows freely across borders and companies operate internationally, but regulation remains largely national. Finland should promote national and international solutions that safeguard and strengthen Finland's tax base in a globally sustainable way, and, of course, the tax base of other countries. As a longer-term objective, groups should be taxed as a single entity. When we make a left-wing tax policy, the burden of paying Finnish employees and companies can be reduced and sustainable growth supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u107	Mr President! A highly awaited and desirable reform in addressing the gap in tax legislation, in particular the existence of shell companies and different passive investment holding companies. It has been known for a long time that, both at EU level and in Finland, a large part of the tax base will disappear through aggressive tax planning but also through unfair tax competition and, above all, illegal activity. There is always a feeling that when there is a debate in this Chamber about refugees or immigration, there should also be one passionate debate about tax refugees and tax immigration — or about tax refugees as a whole and fleeing their obligations and the construction of a common good — but apparently they are the most difficult issues to discuss, because the opposing party is less likely to appear in numbs or squares but is so-called invisible. Of course, you want the courage of the government to take further steps. There is more to come, but those deeper-down solutions will certainly be waiting for themselves, and much needs to be done here also through EU lobbying and global lobbying. A common exchange of information is something that Finland can promote on all sides, and hopefully our collective force will also address the issue of international crime being caught only through joint international action. Perhaps it is worth mentioning these leaks as well. I sincerely hope that Finland will do everything in its power to protect the role and life of the leaks, because there have been very bad examples in many countries that, once these so-called Whistleblowers have given information, then their day of life has also been decided. Both journalists and many other actors around the world have suffered this very sad fate in a situation where they have tried to do everything in their power to protect common property. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u108	Mr President! After all, a good tax system is known for having a broad tax base, so that tax levels can be kept reasonable and that citizens feel that it is fair. These elements, among other things, have so far ensured that we in Finland have a very good willingness to pay taxes overall and people feel that the tax system is fair. Mr President! It is important to note that not all operators necessarily share this noble idea and perhaps also try to avoid taxes through their own actions, so that, of course, legislation must be as effective as possible in bridging all the gaps that it may be possible to try to use in tax avoidance. In this proposal, it is now particularly important to prevent foreign companies, which, however, have management, from operating here in Finland but who have registered abroad, from avoiding paying taxes to Finland. I believe that this will improve the situation for itself. Of course, this avoidance of taxes also requires the exchange of information, international cooperation. Such different ownership chains and similar ones will otherwise be very difficult to find out if they are not also able to cooperate through the authorities, for example in recent EU-level directives that have been able to improve the exchange of information. There is, of course, a question here as to whether it is possible to seek some form of harmonisation of tax legislation, or, for example, when taxation is made on the basis of accounting law in companies, whether it is possible to find uniform treatment, for example, for this transfer pricing system, which would avoid companies being able to use different internal invoicings within the group or other equivalents that are capable of avoiding taxation. But these have in most cases been difficult in the sense that we will then quickly come to the issue of national competence, and especially when we talk about tax levels, we are totally on the side of national competence, but many times it has also proved difficult to get these regulations to the same level. I'm sure you have something to support. The committees will probably then be hearing experts, and the potential concern raised by Mr Kiviranta is certainly also worth looking at.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u109	Mr President! It is very happy that we have this proposal here in Parliament today. I myself have named this Lex Harak because last season, in 2018, Mr Harakka made this a bill, and then we did it together, along with Kari Uotila of the Left Alliance and signed the tax section. In my opinion, this could then be Lex Harakka, who is now starting from this referral debate. Of course, it is positive and thanks to the whole government and also to Parliament for wanting, in a good spirit overall, to dismantle these tax havens and even these aggressive tax planning, not to mention tax evasion, to cut back on things and to avoid and eliminate them. President! I believe that this is necessary. From the point of view of fairness, it is quite clear that it is not right for a normal, ordinary employee or pensioner or unemployed to pay their taxes, an entrepreneur who does not have the opportunity and does not want to go to such games, to pay his taxes nicely, but others then take advantage of the fact that it is justified, for example, by such box companies and thus avoids taxation. Especially now that we are talking about the need, on the one hand, which we also have with the interest rate and, on the other hand, keep a strong basis for public finances in order, at least I, as a Finnish person, would much prefer to see this type of thing taxed, to fill gaps in taxation, loopholes, to tighten the tax base rather than to have to adjust the economy instead, for example, by cutting benefits or raising taxes on low incomes or other. This is a fair way, this is a wise way, and it is certainly also extremely necessary, in economic policy terms, to introduce these, because we need — let us say that we are in the same boat, we need more rowers. Everyone's got to play their part. It is not acceptable for only the smaller and the weaker to carry them in a basket, but for everyone to participate. Finland needs tax revenue, and this will enable Finland to obtain the tax revenue that belongs to Finland. This is quite right: for Finns, the tax revenues that belong to Finland. President! There are many other ways. For example, this programme to combat the shadow economy has already been approved by the government. There's a lot of possibilities in that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u113	Mr President! It is a very good thing that we always do everything in our power to prevent tax havens. The Social Democratic Party's representative pointed out the summary of the tax base, and I would like to remind you that in several years in the alternative budget, the Finns of Peru have proposed an extension of the tax base to include such so-called domestic tax havens, if we are to be familiar with the capital income of large foundations and associations for tax purposes. This is precisely about large foundations and associations that receive capital income, such as dividends, rental income and sales profits, without tax. The current system has created a kind of tax haven for large foundations, allowing the wealthy to escape almost completely from taxation and use significant power through large foundations. Here is a very good proposal for you to summarise the tax base. This would apply specifically to large foundations, not small associations. When you talk about this consolidation of the tax base and then about it, as Mr Viitanen said, that everyone would pay and not just low incomes and such small people, then here would be one very good option, and I would ask you to get to know this. We have proposed this in several years, but we have not seen it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u114	Mr President! I cannot help but point out the same thing that Mr Meri has just said, namely the tax benefits of associations of general interest, the tax advantages of communities, that is, domestic tax havens. As we know, the dividends received by the trade union movement are still tax-free, and the question is: when will they be subject to normal capital taxation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u115	Mr President! I think it's a representative. The sea made an interesting proposal to exempt large foundations from these tax concessions, which they have, and to make them subject to taxation. Is there now a difference between us Social Democrats and you Basic Finns? When you are not on the board, you will make such a suggestion. I think you were responsible for the government during the last parliamentary term, if I remember correctly, and then you did not make this proposal. We Social Democrats have the difference that our Social Democratic representatives, Mrs Viitanen and Mrs Harakka, have made proposals for the discipline of these holding companies, and when we have the responsibility of government, then we will also implement this. Is this the difference between why you didn't do what you're proposing at your best?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u116	Mr President! In my opinion, many proposals, all of which tighten up the tax base, are worth going through. In this connection, I would remind you that there is more to it than that, we have a working group set up by Minister Vanhanen in the spring, or, at least, a study work which now explains, among other things, what is important to the social democrats and the reform that we are proposing, for example, that these large foreign investors should be subject to withholding tax here at home. It could generate considerable tax revenue here for us, and that would apply — because it could not only apply to foreigners who, however, most of them are engaged in this activity — even here in the country of origin. We are also here to deal with issues like this, and I hope very much that there will be support for this from the Finns of Finland, as, hopefully, this will also take place next spring after the report is ready for follow-up. That's what I'm hoping for. In accordance with the Government's schedules, the government has clarified this possible value-added tax, which would therefore squish it away from temporarily moving books abroad and avoiding — there taxes are being raised, and then back — that is to say, the tax that is due to Finns for the income, the profit that has been generated here, would be taxed in Finland. When I supported this idea when the study was completed, the debate started there that it is a terrible thing, when people are being taxed all the time, it is the tax revenue of Finns, what is born in Finland, what is being paid in Finland, and that is how the Finnish welfare society is being funded. And I really hope now, because I appreciate the fact that there will also be proposals from other groups to eliminate the different tax evasion and to extend the tax base, that when these proposals are made, we will also receive support and support from the Finns, for example, because it is important that, on the broadest possible parliamentary front, we should be able to commit ourselves to these issues. But there is more to it, Mr President, and of course we are happy to take them up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u117	Mr President! We are dealing here with the proposal to control tax evasion. It is thanks to the fact that the left-wing parties are now in the government, and that is a great thing. The left-wing parties are working to put an end to tax evasion, whether we are in government or opposition, unlike the Finns who, when they were in government, did not care to do this work. It is as interesting as it may be that it is Mr Viitanen who raised this withholding tax very well, because the left-wing parties are in favour of this withholding tax, which would also come to the trade union movement, which was mentioned here, but on the right side of the Chamber, the majority of the Chamber did not want this, because there is quite a lot of money there, obviously in various foundations, in the employers' business organisations, which, of course, have also been an election funder and have their own interests to run. Of course, as mentioned here, it would also target foreign investors, which would be a good thing. In fact, considering this proposal before us, it is actually a good thing that this debate did not stop but continued, because in fact there is even a Member of Parliament in the Group of the Finns Party who has praised the fact that it is possible to do this by not paying taxes in Finland and transferring activities abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u120	Mr President! First of all, I would like to respond to Mr Kiljune on this matter, as you preach. Now, let's take this centenary of yours: I wouldn't dare here to brag about what I promise, that's what I'm doing. And yet you did not answer that if we live at this moment and there is an idea — Mr Viitanen brought up the summary of the tax base, that everyone involved — we have an idea and I offer it, then the answer is what happened in the year of the wiener and stick. [Quick Five] I am surprised that someone's message is being raised here somewhere. I can't answer for other people. Then maybe we can keep doing this in the cafeteria. I don't even know who we're talking about. But if we are talking about taxation, then the Social Democrats have always loved taxes in the sense that if we look back on the debate on inheritance taxation over the last period, then the current Minister Harakkahan, who was the head of the Finance Committee in the Social Democrats, felt that inheritance tax, for example, was the best tax in the market economy, even though, according to the Taxpayers' Confederation, for example, it is the highest tax on average income.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u121	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u122	We will now resume the debate on item 7 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u123	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 5/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. After the introduction, it is possible to have a debate if there is enthusiasm for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u124	Mr President! The Government's proposal implements a Directive on the Energy Efficiency of Buildings, which includes an obligation in relation to the charging infrastructure for electric cars. The new legislation meets the minimum requirements of the Directive. In some respects, the level of requirements is slightly higher than that of the directive. For example, the obligation for new and large-scale residential buildings to be repaired applies to buildings with at least five parking spaces when the limit set by the directive is ten parking spaces. I would like to point out here in particular that the obligations in this respect apply only to new and large-scale buildings. In this case, it makes sense to prepare by pipeline the wiring to the future charging points, because it is cheaper to do it when the construction is carried out. The existence of readiness in buildings also increases the value of the property. It is always worth remembering that, for example, in paved courtyards, when the pipelines are ready, huge sums are saved when there is no need for a hole in the yardyards, but only electricity lines can be drawn into the pipelines that are already in place. The committee carefully examined what such extensive repair work is. According to Article 3(3) of the draft law, large-scale renovation refers to a renovation where the total cost of rebuilding the renovations related to the technical systems of the building or the building is more than 25 % of the value of the building, excluding the value of the site. It is essential that, in the case of large-scale repairs, parking spaces and the electrical system of parking spaces or buildings are also repaired. So it is not just a matter of repair, it is simply a matter of preparing for future charging places in the same way as when building new ones. As an example of the discussions in committee, I can mention that if you make a new flat roof or change windows and doors, this is not such a renovation, it is normal home repair. Or kitchen renovation: it does not require this type of electric charging site at that stage. In other words, it applies to such renovations when the building is heavily tampered with and renovated. The Committee on the Environment also stresses that this legislation on the charging infrastructure for electric cars does not alter a coherent technological neutrality policy, but the objectives of increasing the use of biofuels and biogas, for example, will be implemented as before elsewhere in the legislation. The Committee stresses that all efforts to achieve the emission reduction targets for transport are needed and should be implemented as soon as possible. Mr President! The new climate annual report shows that the number of electric cars increased significantly in 2019. There was growth in both rechargeable hybrids and full electric cars. In 2019 the number of full electric cars in Finland nearly doubled compared to the number in 2018. In recent years, full electric cars have accounted for about 20 per cent of all electric cars. The medium-term climate policy plan has set a target of a total of at least 250,000 electric cars in Finland in 2030, i.e. either a full electric car or a charging hybrid, and at least 50,000 gas cars. In the case of electric cars, it appears that the target of 250,000 cars is easily achieved by the current instruments of control. The number of electric cars is likely to be much higher in 2030. Mr President! I would like to emphasise that this new legislation does not in any way affect the way in which the costs of installing the charging point are shared in the housing company. The Ministry of Justice has started to identify the need for changes to the Housing Company Act. The committee attaches great importance to this, in the form of an urgent study and the preparation of the necessary amendments, in order to prevent confusion in the decision-making within the housing companies from becoming an obstacle to the purchase of electric cars. This report contains two objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u125	Thank you, Mr Hoskonen. Now was there any willingness to go to the debate on the subject?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u126	Mr President! Finland's goal is to halve transport emissions by 2030 and fossil-free transport by 2045, and this requires a massive electrification of transport, which in turn requires a significant increase in the charge infrastructure of electric cars, especially at home and at workplaces where people charge their cars. For the most part, this government proposal is in line with the level of the EU Directive for the construction of the charging infrastructure and points. In some respects, the obligations are more ambitious than the directive but only for new buildings which are to be largely repaired. It is now important to note that, above all, better capabilities are being built here for electric motorists of the future as well. The Government's proposal also takes into account the fact that obligations do not become excessive for the owners of buildings. Micro-enterprises, among others, have been exempted from obligations. Mr President! As the chairman of the committee described here, this government proposal is a carefully thought-out package to improve the conditions for electric motoring in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u127	Ärade talman, Mr President! This proposal is ambitious, as it should be. We will achieve a win-win situation when we can improve the energy efficiency of buildings and mitigate climate change. The opposition protests that some of these obligations are too heavy, but, as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection states, it is cheaper to install charging point facilities for new and widely repaired residential buildings with more than four parking spaces in comparison to retrofitted installations, and sooner or later this capacity is needed everywhere. It is true that the proposal is more demanding for residential buildings than the directive behind it. This is because the Government's climate policy is ambitious.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u128	Mr President! You have to thank me when it's worth it. Although this government proposal for its original timetable was significantly delayed, the changes that came with it are very good. This, after a reasonably crushing response to the opinion, made it reasonable for the government's proposal to come close to the minimum level of the directive in all other respects, except as far as these housing companies are concerned. It is precisely this obligation of the government's proposal which now calls for stricter obligations on housing companies in new buildings or in large renovations. The proposal would impose obligations on 30,000 small housing companies, which do not necessarily have the financial resources to make a change, and this change is, of course, required throughout Finland, even in places where electric cars are unlikely to be the most likely way of moving in many years' time. A stricter requirement would bring a 75% increase in the number of housing companies but only 20%
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u129	Mr President! The real goal of the government is ambitious and it can be said to be too ambitious, especially in this economic situation. This proposal has indeed gone in a better direction since the crushing criticism round and has removed, for example, these obligations of micro-entrepreneurs, but it still has the same problems, the general problem is the same as in the past, and this is indeed stricter than the directive in the case of residential buildings. The True Finns believe that, especially in such a situation, we should not take action that is deplorable, whether it be an entrepreneur, a store, a resident or any citizen. On the contrary, we should take measures that improve purchasing power, improve the situation in the labour market and otherwise. The main point here is, of course, as far as climate policy is concerned, that our main problem is not with the basic consumer that he lacks infrastructure to load his electric car, but the biggest problem for the time being is that,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u130	Mr President! This proposal is a good proposal and an important route towards the climate policy that this government wants to be doing. There is no doubt that electrification is mainstream and will also increase in traffic, and it is necessary to pursue ambitious goals that our government has. Electric motoring is going to increase, much has already increased, as was heard in the presentation by the chairman of the Committee on the Environment. It must also be said that electric cars are not yet accessible to everyone, and I very much hope that the market will make electric cars available and that companies will make them more accessible to everyone. That's why this presentation is important that when there are cheap cars available,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u131	Mr President! It is good to start with the big picture of why this law is being made. First of all, of course, this is about implementing the EU directive, and this directive is part of the EU's clean energy package, which in practice is part of the EU package designed to curb climate change in Europe. In practice, this is about promoting a climate-proof transition and, as has been well mentioned here, we do indeed have a significant potential for reducing emissions in transport. It is good to say, then, that the government is still committed to our climate target, and that is why all these measures are needed. Just as the chairman of the Committee on the Environment said, so all efforts to achieve the emission reduction targets for transport are needed and must be implemented as soon as possible, just as we say in the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u132	Mr President! Here we are dealing with the pattern for Parliament as laws on charging points for electric vehicles. It has now been mentioned that we have an overall share of electric cars, i.e. full electric cars, of 20%, but now I would remind you that the number of electric cars in total is about one per cent, so that the people will have the real knowledge that is being done here. So about 1% are electric cars, and now we are making the law about increasing costs for almost every corner. True Finns are opposed to such climate pose and development, especially in this social situation where we live now. We cannot and do not want, as a group, to contribute to the European Union's overly ambitious climate policy objectives, especially since this proposal does not save the climate but merely imposes costs on people and weakens the competitiveness of industry. That's what's gonna happen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u133	Mr President! I personally consider this bill to be a good one as a rule. Perhaps one small thing could have been a stronger consideration of this regional perspective, but today, at least in this economic area, it is probably not in Inari, but in this economic area, which is the fifth car to be bought, it is a downloadable hybrid, that is, a plugari or electric car, it is realism today that people, consumers, want to stay involved in this climate debate with their own purchasing behaviour. It is true that not everyone will ever be able to afford new cars, not electric cars or many others, and we must always think of the whole people. But when the committee stresses that all efforts are needed and must be made to achieve the emission reduction targets for transport as soon as possible, take seriously, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that you are abolishing the car tax, because if it is not abolished, then all the surplus in Central Europe will come here to Finland and the emissions targets will run away.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u134	Mr President! This government proposal has improved considerably from the draft that went to the statements. The opinions have therefore been consulted. They have been heard by the government and have also been noted in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and have also been improved there. In practice, this means, Mr opposition, that there will be no obligations for existing, existing residential buildings, except for those where large-scale renovations are being carried out in the house. These obligations would only apply when there are more than four parking spaces in the building and, in practice, it should be equipped with a charging capacity. And what is important is that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection set out what the large-scale renovation would be, in practice, 25% of the present value of the building. That is an essential point, which has also been defined for the first time. Business life, especially small enterprises, has also been taken into account in this Government proposal,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u135	Mr President! I am not a member of the Committee on the Environment, but I have read this opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and this is a very sustainable and justifiably well-founded point, when it is stated here: ‘At the same time, the construction of the EWP capacity will limit or invest in solutions that are likely to become technically obsolete. “ In other words, the fact that unnecessary investment is not being made has also been taken into account here. And when it is known that even in such cases 22 kilowatts are involved, it is not a thin cable when you have to move the current along it, so such cables are such things that will be done in connection with major renovations, and was it so that if you have 25 percent of the renovation, then you could be obliged, but still mean these large, extensive repairs. I think this is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u136	Mr President! Finland is committed to being carbon neutral by 2035. This is an ambitious objective which does not just come about with fine words, but requires concrete action, and there is one here. Technical Research Centre VTT, Motiva and the Finnish Real Estate Association carried out a GASELLI project of this kind. According to it, the main deficiencies in the charging infrastructure are specifically in residential parking and job charging in housing companies. The project’s recommendations include, inter alia, the continuation of investments in the promotion of home charging of electric cars, particularly in various housing companies. According to the recommendations, jobs should be encouraged and also directed towards investing in charging opportunities, as the lack of a job charging point often hinders an electric car for a commuter vehicle and also steers the use of hybrid cars. This is exactly what this answers well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u137	Mr President! Thank you for this new law. Hopefully there will be considerably more charging points and capabilities in the future than there is today. Unfortunately, transport emission reduction obligations are not just being met with this electric car pattern, but we must get the full potential of measures put in place: biofuels, biogas, liquid fuels as well as this new type of synthetic fuel that can be produced from the system of the closed carbon dioxide cycle. The reform of the charging system for transport taxes is progressing at its own pace. I hope that one day, when the show comes to the house, there will also be support for it — for years it has been taken away, and not a great deal of enthusiasm has been found. With regard to these gas and liquid fuel conversions, I would also say that when we look at the lifetime emissions and life cycle of the whole vehicle, these conversions of existing vehicles must also take place from a circular economic point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u138	Mr President! In this context, I warmly thank the committee for its excellent cooperation on this draft law. The report is truly balanced and has been well thought out and seen on many occasions. The expert hearings were quite convincing, of course, and valuable information came to us. I have already noted during the committee's deliberations that our committee has excellent expertise on the building side, among other things, and I cannot fail to mention Mrs Torniainen's strong contribution here. In this case, he has given us much of his wisdom in drawing up this report. Thank you both to him and to all the other members of the committee who have had excellent information throughout the debate. There are two things I will pay attention to. The second is that it is not worth thinking now that we are solving something decisive in this way. — No. All we do is make it possible for electric cars to become more and more. And I don't think we should go ahead of the car factories and be champions. There will be new innovations, like catalytic converters, ABS brakes, all possible safety belts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u139	Mr President! It is to be commended when the opposition praises the government, I refer to Mr Multala's speech. Mr Purra spoke earlier and said that this was too ambitious, and Mr Peltokangas said that this is unnecessary because it is implementing a directive from the EU. The fact that, when we take this climate change seriously, electric carisation is the way in which we are going has now been strongly highlighted in many of these speeches. Mr Peltokangas reminded us that only 1% of the car fleet at the moment would be electric cars — too little, because these charging points are missing, and it is important in that sense that we see that electric cars are a genuine future, and when we invest in these charging points in this way, we will have a bigger car fleet in a moment, and I would say to Mr Purra directly: this cannot be too ambitious.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u140	Mr President! I'm sure electric cars will become more common in this area over time. Is it, then, a reasonable solution for the climate in terms of these life-cycle emissions with modern technology, so not necessarily at the moment. This bill has improved, but it still remains a concern for this particular aspect of asset protection, in other words, especially when charging points are built, the actual ones, the time for pre-eminence investments are: that is where technology can change, the standards and then what that final demand will be. Of course, these housing companies still have this national feature. In many other countries, it is on the basis of the Community or on the basis of the property that the problem still needs to be resolved. This problem of proportionality will remain, and if it is necessary to choose between the charging point or charging point capability, then it will be preferred to the charging point capability. Just a couple more points here. The problem of job charging is its tax value: it is too high. And another thing I would like to pay attention to is this fire safety:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u141	Mr President! The moderation proposed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in relation to micro-enterprises in its report is necessary. Therefore, micro-enterprises would not continue to be obliged to equip their parking spaces with charging points for electric cars, even when the company has more than ten parking spaces. Perhaps it is good to say that a micro-enterprise refers to a company with fewer than ten employees and a turnover of less than EUR 2 million. On the whole, it is a good thing that the number of charging points for electric vehicles and the readiness to build them are regulated. This will ensure that electric vehicles can be charged in new buildings. The increase in charging opportunities is a natural prerequisite for the popularity of electric vehicles. Electric vehicles cannot become very widespread unless their charging network is comprehensive. In the planning of buildings in general, it is good to prepare for a rapid increase in the use of electric vehicles in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u142	Mr President! The Coalition Party objected to this proposal in the Committee on the Environment, because, in our view, there are still too many obligations to build charging points, and here Finland is again implementing a directive that is more ambitious than what the basic level requires. Mr President! We also dealt with this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, where we drew particular attention to the fact that these proposals should be technologically neutral and not promote a single driving force. Electric cars alone are not necessarily the solution for Finland, but car technology is developing all the time. Cars in general become less emitters and should focus on the fact that, according to emissions, they would then also be taxed and treated. Mr Eestilä also pointed out that the same provisions apply here to, for example, Espoo and Inaria, which operate under completely different conditions, and in addition to that,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u143	Mr President! There, among other things, a representative The park reached this point, i.e. the overall life-cycle effects. We are talking here about saving the climate, we are talking about electric cars and electric poles. This is the overall effect. For example, VTT’s leading researcher, Laurikko, has stated that this is what makes the battery extremely important, and he uses as an example that in South Korea, for example, electricity is more than 90% fossil energy produced, which increases carbon emissions from the manufacture of electric cars. And, in fact, I would like to ask Mr Hoskos whether he has even considered these overall effects, including the manufacture of electric cars, batteries, precisely how this one pole of electric cars now solves this overall problem. And now that we are presenting an EU directive here, we cannot at least blame the EU, but then blame this Chamber if we do it for once. We always talk about where the EU, where the problem is, but now we ourselves are making more problems, and I would like the chairman of the committee to make a statement on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u144	Mr President! Indeed, this issue has been carefully considered, and it must be remembered that motor vehicle technology is developing, just as car factories here have moved electric cars forward. We already know where it is developing, and we must remember that, for example, the owners of an electric car, whether it is a clean electric car or a hybrid, where there is still an internal combustion engine and these charging systems involved — my friends have a few of these electric cars — yes, they say straight away that when it comes home in the evening, when it comes home, when it comes to a 16-amp socket and a charging wire to the end of the car, it will charge what it needs during the night, so that the problem itself does not exist. What is important, just as the committee said in its report, is that at this stage we should not commit ourselves to any particular technology when car technology is developing at a fierce pace, where huge money is being invested in research, product development. What we have today in electric car technology and what it will be in 20 years' time will not necessarily have anything to do with each other. The technology is developing so fast.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u145	Mr President! The draft law under discussion brings the EU directive into Finnish legislation and aims to improve the energy efficiency of buildings and mitigate climate change. The government took good note of the feedback received during the consultation — thanks for that. Transport produces about 20 per cent of Finland’s greenhouse gas emissions. That is why we need to increase the share of full electric cars and charging hybrids in transport in order to control transport emissions. More charging points are needed to enable more and more people to switch their fossil cars to a lower emission. The driver must be sure that the electric car can be charged at home, at work and on the road. Mr President! Many say that they would have already switched to an electric car or a charging hybrid if they had been sure that they could even install a slow charging option at their own car site. Building companies need to be better involved in the construction of a charging network. According to the citizen's feedback, there are currently challenges in the housing companies and with the managers. As has been said in many previous speeches, we need all the means available to cut emissions from transport, and at the same time when we talk about electric cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u146	Mr President! With the Government's proposal, new and widely renovated residential buildings must be equipped with a charging point for all their parking spaces. In the case of old buildings, it is precisely residential buildings that are to be largely renovated. For people to acquire low-emission cars, it is important that the infrastructure is in order. First, we need to build this infra and create conditions for people to actually have the opportunity and incentive to buy new cars. On the other hand, it is important that low-emission cars are placed on the market for second-hand cars, and the government has its own actions and proposals, which are also available to Parliament. We cannot expect all people to buy a new rechargeable hyb-rid or a full electric car, but it is important that the market for second-hand cars also works. The promotion of electric cars is only one part of the promotion of low-emission transport, which is an important part of the work that we will do by 2035 to make Finland carbon neutral.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u147	Mr President! The government's climate objectives are technically impossible to achieve even under dictatorship, let alone under democracy. The law now proposed paves the way for a terriblely expensive mess in old housing companies and in the low voltage networks of electricity companies. These charging points cannot withstand the power stations of buildings, including the low-voltage grids of electricity companies and their transformers, whose renewal will increase the cost of living again, and people’s well-being will be weakened. The proposal is one of the many ideological intellectual flashes of the government that are causing its victims and society enormous bureaucracy and costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u150	I will give the floor to the representatives of Kivisaari, Kivelä, Kinnunen and Purra, and then we will go to the list of speakers. — — — — Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u151	Mr President! With a very high probability that electric cars will be the future and part of the solution to reduce emissions from transport too, and a significant increase in the number of charging points will, of course, accelerate this development. In this proposal, therefore, a little simplistic is the obligation for companies to build charging points and the obligation for housing companies to build charging facilities, i.e. in practice to pipeline the car seats. This makes sense because a large part of the charge is, of course, at home and at work, where cars are already standing for long periods of time. This proposal has certainly made sense — thanks to the committee. Therefore, these requirements for charging capacity do not apply to existing residential buildings unless there is a large-scale renovation of the building. Mr Kiviranta also made a good point about these micro-enterprises. A very good and rational performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u152	Mr President! What really matters here is that the car fleet is going to change anyway, and now the problem is that there are too few of these electric cars. Well, I don't think anyone's going to get an electric car if they can't easily load it, so it's quite clear at the moment that the lack of a charging infrastructure is a bottleneck in this electrification of traffic. Well, the market-based expansion of electric cars has so far not worked fast enough with regard to climate targets, and there is no reason to assume that it will continue to work. If society does not support this change, then it will only happen more slowly. And that is precisely why these state measures are needed during such a period of transformation, and that is why they are also of greatest benefit. It is also worth noting that preparing for these charging points is also more reasonable and affordable than installing them afterwards. So it's in everyone's interest that these charging points are now being prepared.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u153	Mr President! The Government's proposal is the implementation of the EU directive. The consultation led to a significant improvement in the proposal, close to the minimum level of the directive.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u156	And Mr Purra, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u157	Mr President! I heard here that climate policy cannot be too ambitious. Well, there's a civil actor like Eloka, who just sat on an asphalt and prevented cars from driving. It considers that the government's climate policy is not ambitious enough. I could tell you that if you want to ban cars altogether, it will be more ambitious. Well, as we all know, we do not live in such a world, but this policy is often restricted by limited resources, for example, and, terribly often, these are targeted at low and middle incomes — I think Mr Kiljunen knows that too. It does not really change, even though it is said that a fairer policy is being made, that is to say that the burden of payment is being shifted. Some people usually always pay, whether it's electric charging for housing companies, congestion charges or whatever. For some reason, it comes to mind that it is known that the market will in any case be electrified — this is our natural direction — but some climate fanatics have the fear that it will not be banned, such as peat,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u158	However, Mr Kiljunen's name was mentioned there, so I will give you one more contribution. Scream, then you won't mention anyone's name again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u159	Yeah, I won't mention the name. — In the previous speech, which was used here, my name was mentioned in relation to the fact that I had spoken about too little ambition or too much ambition in relation to climate change. I didn't actually do that. I made a reference to electric cars that are genuinely coming, we all see that it is a strongly growing industry. It is also up to our competitiveness that we create the conditions for Finland to be electric. This is a small measure that is now being taken on the basis of the EU directive. Houseowners will also pay attention. In this respect, I pointed out that this cannot be too ambitious. This is simply the future now, and we are strengthening both our environmentally friendly development, our overall well-being and the competitiveness of the national economy. So, in that respect, nothing but ambition as high as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u160	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u161	Mr President! The Government's proposal for legislation on charging points and charging points for electric vehicles in buildings, as well as on automation and control systems for buildings and amending Article 126 of the Land Use and Building Act is part of the Government's wedge-eyed climate policy. It should be noted that the cost impact of the electricity charging points has been estimated in many expert opinions to be between EUR 50 and 100 million between 2020 and 2030, although the lack of data makes this estimate more difficult. Experts who issued an opinion on the proposal mentioned that the cost of charging points for existing building stock in a large building may be at its worst multiples compared to the costs set out in the impact assessment. This money was estimated to be directly away from building development in a more responsible direction, energy efficiency, renewable energy use, etc. It is also a serious financial burden on the population. The main goal of the Red Mul Government of Marin is that Finland is carbon neutral. We Finns cannot support that idea, for it is, among other things, too ambitious. Thus we see that it will not happen either. The Red Mule Government will be happy to introduce itself both as a planet’s savior and as an anti-Discriminationist. But the truth is different. The policy against CO2 is directed hardest at the middle class and the working class, that is, people who cannot afford to pay astronomical energy prices. We cannot therefore accept such a proposal. In addition, many people may be at risk of losing their jobs in sectors where the red mud government forces them to go down. This is especially the case now that the corona pandemic is under control. The government has decided to ban this — and I cannot, by the way, fail to say this, because this is also linked to this same climate policy with a wedge-eyed eye — gradually by the beginning of the 2030s. In government and municipal real estate, heating oil will be forced to cease by 24 C.E. This will drive municipalities and those living in municipal real estate into financial distress. It forces the closure of a number of traineeships and hobbies for children and young people — this is a youth-friendly government policy, let me ask you. The budget of the new red mud government in 21 C.E. will increase the cost of fossil fuel by 30 cents per litre. These need to be added to the 6,7 cent increase already decided in summer 2020 and the RED 2nd, i.e. a national interpretation of the distribution and blending obligation, which is about 7 cents. When everything is added together, adding value added tax and security of supply, the price of the gas pump is practically up to 50 cents, and the people thank you, the government! All this only because the current government wants Finland to be bigger in global climate control.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u166	Mr President! The main points were already in that debate, but I thought I would comment on these objections. First of all, the Finns of Peru, who focus on this sort of thing, I think a little bit on reality, on painting, and they are against climate policy in general and these measures, and they are focusing on this rhetoric. It is all right to remember that Finns are very much in favour of climate action. Government climate policy is based on climate science, and climate action is being taken to avoid an even worse situation than where we are without these measures. So we want to protect the Finns too, and we want to do our part and to be responsible for our own emissions. It's nothing more amazing than that. Well, then, from this performance itself. Let me start by saying that I myself would have been prepared to promote even more ambitious the charging infrastructure for electric cars, which, in my view, is now a compromise. Of course, this should not go any lower, as these objections suggest. First of all, if these emission targets are to be considered, then the charge infra should be increased even more strongly. For example, according to the Climate Panel, the achievement of climate targets requires that less than 800,000 full electric cars be delivered to Finland in 2030, which would be 27 per cent of our fleet, and from now on the annual increase should always be 100,000 cars per year. Well, now we know we're not exactly in these numbers. Since I myself would have liked us to do even more, I hope that this law, in addition to these provisions, will then give such a strong signal, that this is the direction in which society is going and that these charging points can, of course, be more prepared than the law requires. A good example of this is my own area of Arabianranta in Helsinki, where it was decided to put this possibility of charging on all the heating poles of the car parks last year. So it's perfectly feasible if you want to. So that, in my opinion, the starting point cannot be simply to fear costs. [Leena Sea interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u167	Mr President! It is very sad that such arrogance is reflected in the speeches made by government representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u172	Mr President! Transport emissions account for about one-fifth of Finland's total emissions, of which more than 90% are road emissions, so in that sense this proposal is important and welcome. However, it must be borne in mind that the abandonment of fossil fuels in general is the most important thing, and in this sense the assembly is in favour of a vehicle using electricity, but also biogas, being always more attractive than a fossil fuel. However, technologies are developing, as has been said several times here, which of course affects this whole philosophy. Now, if we look at this proposal, we believe that this proposal has too heavy a burden on housing companies. Now there will be some 30,000 small housing companies under this obligation, which do not have the financial resources to deal with these issues, and there is still a problem that many housing companies have planned various energy efficiency measures and investments, and now, if they go to these charging points even when they are not needed, then it will be out of other investments, and emissions will also come from those heating options. Mr President! In the opinion of the Coalition Party — or we believe that the most important thing would be to make the Finnish car fleet regenerate, because it is unfortunately still at the worst end, the oldest end of Europe, and we have argued that taxation on the purchase of a car should be passed on to the taxation of emissions from motor vehicles. I hope that we will be able to discuss this issue in the context of the forthcoming government proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u173	Mr President! Transport is indeed one of the most significant emitters in Finland. The latest annual climate report shows that transport emissions in 2018 accounted for almost 40 per cent of all emissions in the burden-sharing sector. Transport is responsible for about the fifth of all our greenhouse gas emissions. From the point of view of total emissions, it is crucial that emission reductions are achieved in each sector, but above all in the transport sector, and one important way of reducing emissions is to increase the share of low-emission or zero-emission means of transport, e.g. by electrifying transport. In this regard, it should be noted that climate action also prevents current crises and future crises, both here and in the rest of the world. This proposal introduces an EU directive into Finnish legislation. According to the proposal, existing buildings go to the EU minimum, but for new and renovated buildings, the proposal imposes more ambitious requirements than EU minimums. Our climate objectives too are ambitious and must be consistent with them. The proposed law is expected to generate between 73,000 and 97,000 charging points and between 560000 and 620000 charging points by 2030. The goal is to create a large number of points all over Finland. And as I have already mentioned in the debate, there are a number of measures to promote this lack of job charging infrastructure. Of these, the Board of Directors decided to set the charge advantage of an electric car at the workplace and in public spaces to tax-free until 2025. The Government also decided to reduce the tax value of full electric cars used as a service car in order to make the purchase of full electric cars more attractive to companies and thus increase the number of electric cars. And, as several Members have already said in the debate, this is the direction we are going in, and it is not worth holding back but looking for the forms of support that work for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u174	Mr President! As I said earlier in the debate, I think that this government proposal is generally good. If there had been an increase in the committee, it might have been a slightly stronger consideration of the regional perspective. But these laws are laid down for the future and not for the past, and I believe that this debate on emissions from transport, to which Finland is committed, in other words halving emissions from transport by 2030, calls for a wide range of measures and measures that have been introduced fairly quickly, which is what the committee is quite rightly calling for here. In my opinion, however, we need to state the facts in the debate, and I personally do not know what average electric car emissions will be released when it is in the store hall or on the floor. Of course, these mines and minerals used by the battery industry have some emission significance, which must also be taken into account in the debate. With this kind of too one thing staring at, as it were, the saving of the world by a certain amount of download infraa being put in a house does not have a very great mathematical significance in Finland or even in Europe, let alone globally. Perhaps more and without passion it is worth assessing this current situation, which is not necessarily very flattering for Finland when we talk about transport emissions, because this has been getting worse all the time, namely the flow of imported cars to Finland. In other words, there are practically countries in Europe that sell cars out and buy them in, and now I am talking about the trade in second-hand cars. Last year, 45,000 second-hand cars were brought to Finland, and it does tell us something that people prefer to buy in Europe or Sweden — that is, in Europe too — goods with accessories that are like what consumers want. After all, a parliament should in some way recognise when the market is always right that we must do what consumers want. They want better cars, and this Finnish car tax is really doing a bad thing for us now. It does so for two reasons: firstly, people often cannot afford to buy the kind of cars they want, and then they go to Sweden and Germany — Sweden for the course and the rest. They want just those slightly bigger cars, but in general they are older and more accessible, I think that is the obvious truth. And if we are thinking about the flow of money, I am not fully aware of it myself, but I think that quite a few hundred million are moving out of Finland. In Sweden the situation is different because they have in due course renounced the car tax, so there will be 10,000 cars a year into Sweden, but Sweden will take 110,000 cars. In other words, Europe is divided into countries that suck and push when it comes to second-hand cars, and Finland is a sucking country, and there is only one reason for that: car tax. This car tax should be abolished as soon as possible if we really want to stick to these climate emissions targets and halve emissions, because if the car tax is abolished, then people will have better money to buy the cars they want, and this import — that is, when Finland is a graveyard for used cars — will immediately be drastically reduced. We save Finnish jobs and keep money running in Finland, which means that the dynamic effects are significant. Of course, I cannot say how many hundred million these dynamic effects will be, but they will be significant. I have seen many MPs, even a little populist in the public eye, criticising the car tax-removalism of the coalition by allowing the rich to buy cheaply large cars. In fact, this statement is self-deception, because that is what is happening right now. The big hybrids to be charged — if you see how much car taxes they have, they are handsome cars, and they are now allowed to buy the people someone calls rich, quite cheap. But when they are not available to everyone, it becomes precisely this, that now that Germany, for example, has reduced VAT to 16, it protects its own industry and its own car trade and its own employment. In addition to the EUR 8000 that they pay to the buyer of an electric car, they mean that the car fleet is being replaced there, the industry is spinning, jobs are being maintained and the reverse side is that the old cars that Finland sucks out because of the wrong tax structure are being pushed here cheaply. In other words, we ourselves are working in our own legislation, contrary to what this Chamber is debating this evening, that we need to reduce emissions, and in practice we are keeping them up and increasing them. If we were to make this transaction and even half of the car tax, which is estimated to be 751 million this year, then we would put it in the vehicle tax, then I think that the dynamic effects would sustain employment and we would gradually reach the level of 150,000 annual first registrations, which would allow us to stop this, as if the age structure of used cars were pushed further and older. So this is no such thing that we should get cheap cars for a group of people, but this is a purely structural problem, and I think, when these downloadable hybrids, as I said just now, and electric cars are starting to become more widespread and especially in Central Europe, so when they — in Germany I think there are 48 million cars — start rolling in here, they come cheap and they are just these big-emissions, so I ask you, MPs, whether we really want to do that, that is, we want to support jobs in the German car industry and jobs in the German car trade, but we do not want to support those jobs in Finland. In my opinion, this car tax should actually be abolished, because I do not see that it has any good future; on the contrary, it may completely confuse the market and Finland's emissions targets in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u175	Mr President! I came here to talk on the podium. It's a little easier to talk when you don't have to scream through that valve and get oxygen. There's not enough oxygen. And I thought I'd talk. It is actually good to continue with that debate by Mr Eestilä on car tax. I am not talking about the car tax, but I was particularly familiar with what model we have in Kainuu, Kajaani, for example, the availability of electric cars. I'm not saying a car sign, but there was already a car for sale. On one charge, 500 miles [500 km] had a promise, and less than 50,000 was the price, so that it was no longer very expensive. It's the tax reduction that plays its part. But let us now go to this bill and to this committee's opinion, which I have looked at here. And, as has been said here before, we need to bring down transport emissions, because they are so important, and this is, of course, one way. But the government's proposal also assumes that it will not change a coherent, technologically neutral climate policy, but that the objectives of increasing the use of biofuels and biogas, for example, will be partly implemented as before by other legislation. In other words, in heavy traffic, biogas is certainly one of the things of the future — not to mention hydrogen. The hydrogen seems to be... As I recall, there are hydrogen-powered buses in Italy in the experiment. So that electricity isn't the only thing that makes you happy in this situation. To this construction: After all, there have already been previous legislative obligations in the area of new construction, such as the drawing of broadband cables, and this electric cable is now one of them. And considering that it is put in structures, it is probably the simplest and easiest thing to do at the time of the new construction. That's what I'd be wondering if it's necessary to have the rest of the charging points. So that's where the cabling would be. It will then be easy to continue those procedures when it seems that charging points are needed. And when it has been said here about these small self-employed people that there is no obligation for them, there is a solution to this at the moment that it can be loaded with just that normal 220 exchange current. True, times are much longer ago. But one alternative to these transport emissions is here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u176	Mr President! In addition to the debate, a few comments have been made. Indeed, traffic produces about one fifth of Finland’s greenhouse gas emissions, and about half of these emissions are generated by passenger cars. The reduction of these emissions requires a wide range of measures, as has been said here in several speeches, and one of them is the addition of electric cars to which this charging infrastructure is needed. As has been said here, but sometimes the debate tends to forget, it is indeed the implementation of the EU directive and the EU's common climate policy. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection really dealt with this government's proposal in depth and raised important points in the report, some of which I would like to raise myself. As has been said here, the rapid development of charging technology must be taken into account when building charging capabilities and points, so that it does not just end up investing in obsolete technology. Technology compatibility was also an issue that was discussed in committee. The committee also drew attention to the decision-making process on charging infrastructure and the allocation of costs in housing companies. Indeed, this housing company law needs to be amended in this regard and it needs to be speeded up. It is going on, but it is important to hurry so that the uncertainties in the decision-making within the housing companies do not prevent the purchase of electric cars. I would also like to draw the attention to the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy that it is also important in the future to pay attention to the charging infrastructure for electric bicycles, even if it is not directly covered by this law, in the form of future mobility. Mr President! Indeed, the government's proposal has raised the level of ambition in relation to the directive in a rather moderate way, but still because of the fact that the new law will support the electrification of transport as far as possible and hence the reduction of climate emissions. As has been said here, the obligations of the government's proposal are more ambitious than the directive in terms of new buildings which are to be largely repaired, which is to say that a solution has now really been sought which would make good progress, and it is quite interesting to note that the debate is quite acute in some places. Mr President! Representative Kauma raised the issue of energy efficiency renovations by housing companies and concerns about their costs. I would like to point out here that the government is distributing energy subsidies to renovation projects to improve energy efficiency in residential buildings, and this is also how we want to support and encourage energy efficiency investments. Finally, for the next year, companies and municipalities will be able to apply through the Ministry of Employment and the Economy for aid for the construction of charging points for electric cars through a tendering procedure. In this respect, priority is given to projects located in the territory of a municipality where, at the start of the tendering procedure, there is not yet a high-performance charging point. So this is how to promote a comprehensive charging network
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u177	Mr President! The debate is over, but two speeches were made on this toilet from the Finns of Peru, which I would like to comment on. Mr Ranne said in his own speech that the speeches by the representatives of the government parties were arrogant in nature. I'd like to complain on my own side if there's been a misunderstanding like this. Now I'm not quite sure what this arrogance means. If it means that representatives of the government parties have put forward positions, well-founded positions that are beyond opinion, beyond mutating, then it may seem that way. I have seen many valuable speeches that have now been made here in the ranks of the government parties, where the main argument is when it comes to transport, where 20% of greenhouse gas emissions, CO2 emissions, come from traffic and the car fleet is absolutely central. However, Mrs Ranne said that we representatives of the government parties have as it were the aim that Finland should be better than others, and Mr Peltokangas said that there is such a wedge-eyed planetary rescue operation going on here. To these speeches, I would like to say that this is exactly what it is. At least I myself am guilty of hoping that Finland will be better than others in this respect, and it may be that it is also gleaming to save this planet if we look at what is at stake. Mr President! I'd like to give you a fact: The last ice age that struck this northern hemisphere for a hundred thousand years. The ice age melted, left this area ten thousand years ago, the melting period was five thousand years. During that five thousand - year period, the average global climate temperature warmed up by five degrees, or one degree in a thousand years. What is happening right now if we look at climate change? Since World War II, the average temperature in Finland has already risen by one degree and in the world by half a degree, and in the industrial period it has been a little over a hundred years that the average temperature in the world has risen by two degrees. Now we are ourselves doing a process that is ten times faster than the melting of ice in this northern hemisphere after the ice age. Yes, Mr President, it is a question of saving the planet. We are caught up in a big issue, an exceptionally big issue, and in that sense this ambition of the government cannot even be too ambitious in these climate objectives, as has been said here. We must do this together, so that in a way we can save our planet in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u178	Mr President! Mr Meri has already left, but I have just received more information on his question of total climate emissions, about what the manufacture of cars, especially the battery industry and electric cars in general, are doing to the world's atmosphere. The Finnish Climate Panel has developed a counter that allows anyone to calculate and compare the emissions and costs of cars from different operating forces, i.e. this counter can be found on the website of the Climate Panel. It is always worth remembering that each driver chooses his car in his own way and uses it in his own way. There is no perfect truth in this matter. Let no man go to another person and say that you are polluting the climate with that old Corolla. That is not true. Although 15 years old Toyota Corolla, with its catalytic converters, has fuel injection systems, oxygen sensors — all the incs that are present in modern cars — is certainly the most climate-friendly car that man has ever had. Let him finish his car, keep it in shape, check it out frequently, measure the emissions, and drive a safe car, which is also a good car. I don't advertise any car, these kinds of examples can be found at every car factory, they have all the required inspection equipment, and their emissions are always measured in the survey. So the talk of someone’s car becoming worthless because of these electric talk is not true. I'm sorry that this electric car rush has, like, been blamed on people with that old gas truck. I myself have a seven-year-old diesel, and I would ask that if it travels a hundred for four and a half gallons and is equipped with modern equipment, there is certainly a very environmentally friendly car. I hope in this debate that we will see the needs of our fellowman that we will not go out to blame when he does not have the new one. Now, by any chance, there is no such thing as a Tesla. Let us take two examples, Mr President, in support of this content of my speech: The second is how electricity is produced. Today, too, this city is being pushed into the atmosphere with a huge amount of carbon dioxide, which leaves coal. It produces electricity as a by-product of CHP. And now, if, after the decision of peat, we rejoice that a huge climate action has been taken, that is not the case. A decision was taken to increase emissions to the climate. When some fuel is cut off, something will be replaced. Those boilers won't stay cold in the winter, or they won't do anyone any good, and they're supposed to keep the houses warm and produce electricity with CHP on the side. The combined production of heat and electricity is a very strong force for this country, and on the day this CHP from Finland runs out — it is about to be stopped when the peat runs out, not just wood to drive CHP power, or if driven, so little, because it is so expensive — it is so expensive. In Finnish, it means that we will then buy Norway from Nord Pool. On hard days of freezing, 40% of the additional input required for our electricity generation comes from CHP power. It will then be purchased in Norway at a huge price from Nord Pool, and when it is very cold, it will stamp its electricity price for the whole time, not just the surplus part but the whole electricity package you will buy then, and it will be so expensive that no one will imagine that Finland will benefit from it. Then we burn peat in neighbouring countries, just as now in the Baltic countries we increase the use of peat, so that we can sell a chip in Finland when there is a good business coming. Who said climate policy is global? When it comes to electric cars, you should remember that whole thing. If we go and accuse someone that your old Corolla is polluting, I think it's very wrong. The second, of course, concerns the manufacture of electric cars and the metals we use in that car. The old car, which is 10 years old or 15 years old, is the investment made, the material put and the car works, it is an environmental act as such when it is kept in good condition. What about this mining industry in this country? Now that the preparation of the mining law is moving forward — even today we are discussing it and shortly — it means that, now that we feel that all the mines should be caught, will we then transfer the production of the cobalt to the Congo, where even child labour is used? What about Terrafame? In time, it had to be caught up with a great deal of noise, and many felt that it would be immediately closed. Now it is producing nickel sulphate and cobalt sulphate on the market — a material that is very necessary for batteries, a raw material that is absolutely necessary. The same applies to lithium. Do we want to make batteries in this country, or are we going to give it to a country where there are no rules on the environment and not necessarily on climate policy? Still, we're soo soo, with our finger pointing to the guy that you have an old car, whether it should be remodeled into an electric car. It is always worth remembering the neighbor’s situation, because it is extremely important that the person who drives the car keeps it in order, drives it sparingly, and stops using the line of demeaning other people, because this electric car conversation has contributed to it. The fact that we are slowly developing electric charging points in this country is wisdom. Which one of you, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, is today able to say what this technology will be in 20 years' time? No one can say. Where are we going, is there hydrogen technology coming from there? At least it is certain that technology will develop much, much faster than in the last 20 years. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that when you talk about these climate issues, a little deeper perspective. I only took that peat on purpose, for example, that when we thought we were making a good decision in terms of climate emissions, we made a great stupidity. Now we're hauling stuff all over the world here, from Vorkuta in Russia, and we're about to be hauling wood chips out of the Baltic countries, and then we're going to start from Central Europe's pest insect regions to bring a bunch of shiploads into the forest to destroy Finland's forests. Yes, I am surprised at the enthusiasm of some parties in these matters that what should be done in such a way that there is nothing but damage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u179	Mr President! Interesting points have emerged in this debate. Perhaps I should like to say just now that, fortunately, we have reached such an advanced stage in heating technology in recent years that combustion-based heating productions are not the only ones, but we have great examples: here in Helsinki, we heat the Katri Vala Park with a heat pump, the sewage from Lappeenranta, the data centre, and in Espoo, for example, geothermal heat. But on this very subject, the construction of electric vehicle charging infrastructure. I think that a debate on the overall emissions of electric cars is really necessary. We have a lot of work to do in the recycling of materials so that we can improve the environmental impact of electric cars and, at the moment the car is leaving the lobby of the car shop, it is clear that the electric car has even higher emissions, but in total emissions, given those drives, the electric car is, however, a significantly more climate-friendly option. But this is not a simple matter, and this is an interesting debate. First of all, I would like to comment on this regional aspect of what has taken place in this Chamber. For me, it is important that all Finns, all over Finland, have the opportunity to make low-emission choices, not just in cities or urban areas. In fact, I see that electric motoring is a very good option for reducing transport emissions, especially in rural and out-of-town areas, as there are not so many other alternatives in these places, such as public transport, for example, it can be difficult to deal with. Even in rural areas, daily trips are hundreds of miles, so that the radius of the electric car is not sufficient. The nationwide network is also supported at these charging points by the fact that it must be possible to load an electric car when travelling and, without this possibility, few do so. This proposal does indeed provide for a strong electrification of traffic, and it makes sense to prepare for the construction of these charging points already at the construction stage, because the lifespan of buildings is tens of years. But I would also like to point out that electrification of transport is not the only thing when we halve emissions by 2030, but we also need a structural change where we need to reduce driving performances. Better public transport, better cycling and more comfortable walking environments are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u180	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen said that we are currently saving the planet with these actions, but I fear that it will be quite easy to do so again, because the problem is that we are raising our costs, which means that we will also have to raise our salaries in the future. This means that our competitiveness is losing, and it means that industry is moving away from us, where more is being polluted. The fact that, in practice, we are talking only about emissions from fuel, when it is calculated that, while in a long run, the electric car is environmentally friendly, it is not, however, the quantities that should be in the attempt to halve some of the emissions from transport. However, we certainly do not get the whole thing so good, because people do not have the money to buy those electric cars. When I have had discussions on this matter in this Chamber and in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I can see quite clearly that the group assumes that people will have a disability in their attitude towards electric motoring. In the truth, we have no less attitude, but we have the problem that people do not have the money to buy those cars so that we can actually get enough electric cars for transport. And what we are trying to do now is that we are then moving the renovations of many buildings, that is to say, reducing the work on that side, because more people will certainly fail to do the renovations, precisely because they have to invest in this unnecessary investment according to the electric charging points of these cars. In truth, this will be a really expensive drink for society through the fact that both housing companies and private companies and everyone else will then have to pay for it, which means that we will have even less opportunity to buy those low-emission cars in the future. In the government's presentation, this company car is an extremely good idea, because it is the one that makes it happen naturally. However, in the long run, the option better than the electric car is actually biogas and cars of this kind, because they are considerably cheaper than the purchase prices at the moment. Driving goes to electrification, but there's no point in forcing us to waste people's money first on all this infrastructure, so they can't afford to buy those cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u181	Mr President! I have listened with interest to this debate on this development of the electric car charging network. I understand that this is an argument for and against, but I believe that in the future too, we will be driving internal combustion engines for a long time, that is a fact. Different fuels are constantly being developed and can be developed from different materials. Whether we want to be involved in this development here in Finland is, in my opinion, the core issue, and the automotive industry is also the key in this respect, how the car industry itself is going to develop and build electric cars and hybrid cars that are really cheap to purchase and which each of us can also acquire. This will also lead to the renewal of our fleet of cars. Here, too, is the question of how the industry of electric accumulators develops, where materials will also be available in the future. I personally hope that attention will be paid to this. Technology is developing at a very fast pace in many areas, and if you look back, for example, 10 to 15 years, how the car industry has evolved since the time when emissions have been reduced from cars of that time to the present day, it is already a big leap. I personally hope that when this law comes into force it will also bring about clear rules in real estate, residential buildings, housing companies, clear letters of the law, when to build what kind of charging network, charging capacity or charging points. I believe that this will also lead to an agreement in the housing companies there. At present, many housing companies have a problem with the fact that when a resident acquires a full electric car or a hybrid car, for example, how it is possible for a resident to download it. All the studies have shown that a full electric car or hybrid car is being charged mainly at home or at the workplace, and it is key that we also have the possibility of charging in the future. I myself would like to draw attention to one more point, namely that the supervisory functions of this law are divided between the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency and the municipal building control agency. This is the question:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u182	Mr President! A very interesting debate has taken place, yes. Here I have listened to it with interest. Many keywords have been raised, including the ‘world rescue’ and ‘respectiveness’ level. This is where Mr Torniainen said that we will be driving internal combustion engines for a long time. I really hope that this will happen. For you are concerned about this security of supply in Finland. Have you ever wondered what happens when at night all these electric cars are charging, and it's like 25 degrees below zero? Electricity, I mean, wears out a little bit. At the same time, our industries and households also need electricity. There, I mean, the gauges have bearings pretty hard. In fact, I would like to ask at this point how this electricity is produced. In my opinion, it is like the most important question here, how this electricity is produced, what it saves. Are the Greens really prepared to build a couple more nuclear power plants in Finland to maintain security of supply? Or is electricity purchased from Russia where it may be produced with coal? It does not really sound like a very sensible environmental policy. The fact is, however, that the construction of this charging infrastructure, which is now being presented here, will also cost all those who do not have an electric car and may never be able to afford it. This is the fact that this is going to hit every single one of us. True, the Finns have given some good reasons for why the costs are going to rise, and that is why I do not see this as a good solution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u183	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 8/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u184	Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Transport stresses the importance of road safety when designing a vehicle such as a light-duty vehicle and its legislation. For young drivers, there are many aspects that need to be taken into account. Of these, particular attention has recently been paid to the high proportion of persons aged 17 who have been exempted, both in serious road safety violations and in fatal accidents. We have solid evidence that the response capacity required by traffic is not sufficient for a person under 18 years of age. This risk applies both to the underage driver, to others on board him or her, and to those travelling elsewhere. Road safety for young people is not just a domestic challenge. The same problem is being tackled in all European countries. It is good to look for solutions to this problem, too, in cooperation with neighbouring countries. The main objective must be to increase road safety and improve the accessibility of sustainable transport modes in Finland. Healthy and sustainable forms of mobility are adopted at a young age. Too little exercise causes considerable costs to society each year, so investments to increase cycling and walking pay for themselves through improved public health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u185	Mr President! This legislation on light-duty cars was adopted here in Parliament in December 18 almost unanimously, not quite, but there was a great deal behind it. It was supposed to come into force about a year ago at the beginning of November, but unfortunately, when there were ambiguities with EU law it did not come, and we in the Committee on Transport and Communications gave the government a year to negotiate the matter. And it was the fact that negotiations must be conducted, not aggressively but effectively, and that a good result should be achieved. Unfortunately, this has not happened. The Commission has stated in its decision that there are still conflicts with Finnish and EU legislation, particularly in the Driving Licence Directive. But what was positive was that the EU stated that it was reforming this driving licence directive in the coming years and, in the context of the reform work, the issue of reducing the age limit will be reviewed, also taking into account the specific needs of sparsely populated regions. So this is very positive. Now the situation is that, in the opinion of the National Coalition Party and also of the Finns Party, the negotiations should continue, [Department : Yes! ] The fact is that our young people are moving. And, unfortunately, when it is no longer there outside Ring 3, when you go a few hundred kilometres north, it happens by bicycle and not by walking, when there is no public transport, and in winter even skiing, but those young people do travel there on mopeds, mopeds and aTVs. And we all understand that they are not safe as light cars would be. You can imagine the technique of light cars with all the equipment that even an ordinary passenger car has. So I am very concerned about the safety of young people, or now about the insecurity that will continue. In other words, we believe that these negotiations should continue. We should do a bold trick and take care of the safety of young people and accept that this law will come into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u186	Mr President! I do not believe that the Light Trucks Act should be repealed, but rather that the EU should be rushed to reform the Driving Licence Directive. In any case, the EU is doing this reform work so that we do not yet try to influence it in such a way that this small-scale car project, which is widely considered to be a success in this Parliament, will also succeed alongside it. At the time of the directive's completion, we could already apply our own legislation in practice. For once, the situation would be reversed in such a way that national good practices will guide EU legislation. Lightweight cars are much more environmentally friendly. The last paragraph just mentioned this environmental friendliness. They are much more environmentally friendly than mopeds and mopeds with no filter for exhaust gases. Small passenger cars up to 10 years old are suitable for light cars, which would help to rejuvenate the car fleet and introduce newer technologies. That is why they are both safer and more environmentally friendly, which is important when it comes to young drivers. Small passenger cars are also impact-tested, which means that the safety of not only the driver and passengers but also other road users has been taken into account. When the driver reaches the adult age, it is possible for a light car to be converted into a normal passenger car. This would contribute to the fact that a young person’s first car is not an old slingshot, but a safe little car with which driving training has already become familiar. In the debate on the referral of this proposal, our colleague, Mrs Kyllönen, made an excellent point that Finland may be a little too afraid of the EU's sanctions procedure. However, as a member of the EU, Finland has already been subject to these sanctions a few thousand times, so it is not the end of the world. We do not know whether such a procedure would enter into force for Finland and what sanctions would result from it. After all, in our western neighbour, Sweden, national legislation has allowed an exemption from the EU directive, and even if Swedish tractor cars are not the most practical solution and do not directly adopt this model, it is proof that there are exceptions. The same applies to Holland. When it comes to young people's safety and environmental friendliness too, I see no reason why the Light Car Act could not be tested in Finland. Mr President! This is where Mr Soinikoski raised the issue of young drivers and traffic accidents. With regard to the exemption for 17-year-olds and the number of accidents, I would say that light-duty vehicle legislation would have a positive impact on this. The speed of a light-duty car is technically limited, and it deprives young people of the possibility of evacuating. Sealed devices mean that driving training takes place within certain limits. If the light-duty vehicle legislation were in force, it might be that in many families the need for this exemption might not even exist, but that mobility would always take place in this light-duty vehicle to the fullest age. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u187	Mr President! Indeed, just as Mr Ronkainen said in that previous speech, the truth is that the safety of young people has now been lost, even the safety at the time when we are talking about going on the right cars. Even the racing that often comes along: it would have been much better to control that car at those lower speeds, and perhaps even the worst driving frenzy could have gone away, hardly entirely now. Yes, at this point, indeed, as Mr Tolvanen put it, this should be done in such a way that we should allow this law to come into force and actually look at it, or, of course, this law should be repealed to get light cars in traffic. And yes, we should really be tougher than we are here in the Chamber so that we would really dare challenge the French and Italian moped industry. After all, it is really pathetic that they are going to beat us 6 to 0 and win back, because we all know that this would certainly have gone through the EU at some point in terms of security and others. I cannot fail to mention that when we talk about the share of 17-year-olds in road safety at the moment — I want to tell you this because this is perhaps crazy, but we have not had these 17-year-olds in the past, only a few years — when we look at the situation, there have been 108 accidents this year, last year 63, i.e. this has doubled, but the number of 17-year-old driving licences is ten times higher. Last year there have been 671 17-year-old licence holders at this time, compared to almost 6600 today. When it comes to driving bans, the percentage of driving bans for 17-year-olds who have just received a driving licence is 2.3 — that is to say 2.3-percent of those who have received a driving ban. For 18-year-olds, it is nearly three times that, 7.1 per cent. Even at the age of 19, the number of people who received their first driving licence is 5.3 per cent. No statistics support this job, and I want to bring this up because I am.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u188	Mr President! Young people also need mobility where public transport does not work or does not exist at all. Light cars would be the perfect solution. It is a question of people's freedom of choice and equality. Regrettably, EU bureaucracy is now taking down an otherwise good light-duty vehicle project at this stage. A year ago, the Chancellor of Justice expressed his opinion that the law should be abolished for the sake of the EU. I do not think it is appropriate to question the role and powers of the Chancellor of Justice. Failure to repeal the laws would create a situation in which Finnish legislation would be incompatible with EU law. I don't think I can support illegality. Nor should we lose our negotiating position in the reform of the future driving licence directive. Alternatively, there is no point in postponing the entry into force of the laws for a second time, as the Union's legislative procedure will have to take several years and it will still not be possible to know with certainty the final content of the directive. Now we need to update the outdated EU driving licence legislation in order to bring it into line with the present and the future. There is a need to work hard on it. We also have a good opportunity to consider other options for improving the mobility of young people. Young people are the factors in our future. Some of them are very disappointed after these steps, but let us get this right by developing EU legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u189	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a law on the repeal of the laws on light-duty cars has raised a lot of debate here in Parliament, but also among the citizens. However, it is now important to repeal existing laws so that they do not enter into force as legislation contrary to EU law. Although we now have to repeal the law on light cars, I still believe that this is not the end of the long-term process, but rather a point. There were numerous consultations with the Commission, and the government did everything in its power to allow Finland to obtain a national derogation from the Driving Licence Directive. The Commission welcomed Finland's proposal to allow a 15-year-old to use a speed-limited passenger car, even though it was not possible at the moment. This autumn, the EU will start work on the reform of the Driving Licences Directive and should be completed in 2022. Finland has a place to influence this work. On the basis of previous discussions and through an active contribution to the reform process, we can contribute to the future possibility of light-duty vehicle legislation. Mr President! In this context, I would like to raise concerns about the traffic behaviour of young people. For the past spring, summer and autumn, the share of young people in road accidents has been significant. Young drivers have been involved in numerous endangerment of road safety and even in serious endangerment of road safety. Even if the maximum speed of a light vehicle is limited, it could still do some damage, especially in urban areas. Of course, a young person would be safer in a light car if compared to a moped, but other road users, such as children, pedestrians and cyclists, would be less vulnerable in the event of an accident. Mr President! This issue is therefore not a black and white issue, but a number of points of view. However, it is now justified to adopt a proposal to repeal the legislation on light-duty vehicles. The repeal of the legislation on light cars would not affect the current situation in terms of road safety, traffic flow, transport emissions or the movement of young people, as the laws did not yet come into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u190	Mr President! It is great to note that we are all concerned about the safety of young people in this Chamber. However, I am a little surprised at the basis of the estimates that a light car would bring safety to transport, since there was a rather consensus both among car instructors and the police that a light car would increase the risk of an accident. It is technically almost a car with a speed of up to 60 kilometres per hour, that is, much harder than a moped, it may weigh as much as 1500 kg, and all the experts I have heard say that traffic risks would increase. A moped car still stands out in traffic because of its small size, but a slow light-duty car can even be a large-scale off-road vehicle, and even the fact that it is going very slowly may be a major traffic risk. I think that the repeal of this law is very necessary, and it was expected to happen in advance. But as far as this matter is concerned, it would now be important to learn in the legislative work how we legislate in this country, for this debate and legislation on light driving is not in the best interests of Parliament, not of this country, nor of our young people, their parents or anyone else. Many families have had a great deal of time to work towards the adaptation of old cars to such light-duty cars. This reformed legislation has been expected, even though it has been known that it is going through a great many corners. And now many families are concerned that resources and time have been devoted to solutions that cannot be implemented. In other words, I hope that we, as legislators, will look at and listen with a little more precision to what the EU hopes for and what it will enable, which it will not be possible to do. Hopefully, in the future, we will find solutions that will increase mobility opportunities for young people as well as their road safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u191	Mr President! After all, with this government proposal, the government cancelled its car into the EU. All in all, this is an unfortunate outcome, and one cannot be satisfied with it. In my opinion, road safety is now the second priority, and bureaucracy is a clear one. According to this argument, light-duty vehicle legislation is not compatible with EU regulation and the Driving Licences Directive. It does come to mind whether, in this context, there has been a sufficient level of credit for the EU and whether officials have carried out their duties and, if so, whether they have been done with the left hand. However, this is an important issue and I believe that the negotiations must continue as soon as possible in the direction of the EU in order to bring this sensible proposal into force quickly. There have been speeches on road safety issues, and when I come from that deep rural area, I see this model as a good alternative to caring for the transport needs that young people have in our neighbourhood. But the government didn't make it to the finish line. All in all, that is an unfortunate thing. I believe that this process must quickly be put on the right foot.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u192	Mr President! A light car, especially in rural areas, is a necessary tool for young people to move around. The lack of comprehensive public transport makes it much more difficult for young people to study, work and engage in hobbies. Lightweight cars offer a safer alternative to mopeds. A change to the speed limit would mean that light cars would be better suited to the traffic flow in urban areas, so that they would not create congestion for other road users. Mr President! The Commission is concerned about the safety of light-duty vehicles despite speed limitation devices. It is clear that drivers of light-duty vehicles are required to have sufficient hours of training and that drivers must be familiar with the traffic rules. The Commission also sees that light cars are subject to the definition of motor vehicles and thus fall within the scope of the Driving Licence Directive. If Finland and the EU cannot agree on the issue of the right to drive light-duty vehicles, Finland will have little choice but to repeal its bill. This would be incredible, I think. This would also be a setback for young people in rural areas, precisely those who lack comprehensive public access. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u193	Mr President! It is a great pity that, as a result of EU bureaucracy, this legislation on light cars has to be repealed, which would have made it possible for young people to move better, for example, in relation to hobbies or studies. The fact is that Finnish young people do need more versatile and safe alternatives for their mobility, and light cars would have been a very good and good solution. In time, when this legislation was adopted in this Chamber, it was almost unanimous. It was then, in fact, known what might be ahead, and now it is also concrete, despite a number of negotiations. Thank you to the Minister for Transport and the Ministry of Transport and Communications for having had a dialogue with the EU on this issue, but the unfortunate outcome is now in our hands. There is a need for a sustainable solution that now requires a determined and also patient negotiation towards the EU. Finland must contribute to the reform of the current EU driving licence legislation so that light cars are allowed either directly under the EU directive or at least as a national exception. The city centre definitely wants to have laws in Finland: light cars for Finnish young people. It has been our wish and desire for a long time, and we have worked for it. When I read this joint protest by the opposition, the Coalition Party and the Finns of Peru, on this issue, I actually drew attention to the last paragraph. It says here: ‘The government will actively and without delay continue negotiations with the Commission on the reform of the And when this matter was here in the referral debate, then Mr Harakka, the Minister for Transport and Communications, will say at least one time, if not more often, in his own speech that this is what is being done and that this dialogue is being conducted with the EU, putting pressure on the renewal of this directive on driving licences, which is why light cars are being made possible in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u194	Mr President! After all, this is a bit of a shame from the point of view of legislators as well as many Finnish families who have already invested in equipment, so to speak. Especially in rural areas and in sparsely populated areas, this would have made life much easier for people quite recently, both in terms of children's leisure opportunities and in terms of studying, but there is no need to go against EU law in any case. Now all we have to do is put all the power into this negotiation to amend this directive on vehicles. Well, legislation is needed, that is what we all agree about in this Chamber, and I also think a light-duty vehicle is better than these other, mopeds, mopeds and then tractors, what is in that traffic, from the point of view of road safety. Well, then young people's road safety, which has now been particularly highlighted this summer. Mr Laakso has told us what has happened this summer and the last year. We have to pay attention to it, and there is one big reason for it, the reduction in driving lessons. For example, for a moped, a moped, a tractor, no driving hours are required in principle. There are no mandatory driving hours for these, and I think that is only four hours for the B card. In other words, we should also raise this driving lesson. I understand that this cost also came at some point and that the driving licence was wanted in a certain way, but I think it has also had its own price. This role in driving education and its examination should be evaluated in parallel with the introduction of light-duty vehicle legislation, together with professionals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u195	Mr President! It was sad that this light-duty vehicle legislation, which was quite well prepared, fell there in the European Commission. Now we have to look ahead and, as the Minister of Transport and Communications, Harakka, has already said in the context of the referral debate, work has already begun, influencing the fact that the EU Driving Licence Directive, the driving licence directive in preparation, is being made acceptable to us in the way that the government has proposed and approved the introduction of this light-duty car, which we consider to be good. A light-duty car is clearly a safer option than a moped car, and I believe that this will be achieved through patient work, and there is no point in raising any government-opposition issue here. There has been an extraordinary consensus in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u196	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 7/2020 vp. The committee proposes that the legislative proposals be rejected. After a presentation by the chairman of the committee, the debate will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u197	Mr President! Dear fellow delegates! Indeed, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy worked very hard with this report in the spring. The report was dated 16 April, but it remained at the foot of this unfortunate epidemic. This initiative was accompanied by a broad and well-founded citizens' initiative, which was taken very seriously in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. It was widely heard, and many members of the committee also studied this issue very thoroughly. In this way, as chairman of the committee, we really must acknowledge the fact that the representatives of Mari Holopainen or Arto Pirttilahti, Pia Kauma, Hannu Hoskonen, who just came in — all they really did manage to improve this report all the time. In this citizens' initiative there were a number of issues that would mean quite major changes to the regulatory principles governing mining activities in Finland. Perhaps the most important principle of this kind of theoretical principle is when the citizens' initiative proposes that mining minerals should theoretically be designated as state property. Although the results always depend on the specifics of practical regulation, this would be a big deviation from the way in which mining minerals have mainly been treated in Finland and a little in the world. Similarly, this initiative proposed a considerable overall social consideration, a benefit-risk analysis, when granting mining permits. That too would, in principle, be a major change in relation to the legal judgement that has been exercised so far. Then, in a truly diverse way and in the ensuing debate, a balanced approach was sought between the conditions for mining and the interests of residents, summer residents and other businesses, and there were also important issues about how mining operators should be obliged to pay in advance for funds which could be mobilised in the event of bankruptcy or major environmental damage. In other words, this was a truly wide-ranging, multi-faceted initiative, including ideas on how to involve environmental authorities in authorisation procedures in a different way than in the legal assessment to date. However, in the overall picture of this initiative, it was also important to note that the programme of the current government has, and was therefore defined, many of the objectives of this initiative, not quite identically but quite in the same way. Similarly, the published report by Dr. Pekka Vihervuori, who supported the preparation of the current new mining law, contains quite a few of the same things, namely this strengthening of the status of municipalities, the right of municipalities to decide by planning whether mining is possible, and then, indeed, the total weight of benefits and disadvantages, the collection of guarantees from mine operators. All of these were studied by the Committee on Economic Affairs. This was very educational and important to many of us. There were also a wide range of consultations with traders, residents, other traders, mining industry, environmental organisations. Of course, since this is a citizens' initiative with very far-reaching proposals, which in some way are also involved in the preparation that the government is making, we decided to reject this citizens' initiative as such, but as anyone who considers this report of ours can see, it is also stated here: ‘The government requires that the government take account of the aspects of the initiative and the implementation of the objectives of the government programme in the reform of the mining legislation in its report of the Economic Committee. “ In other words, insofar as this report is now a source of joy and will for the preparation of the government, we are, of course, satisfied as a committee. Indeed, there are a lot of things here, but those great principles concern the ownership rights of soil ores, the Finnish authorities' procedures and then this overall consideration, the benefit-benefit analysis, including the division of labour between the authorities. If these materialize in that forthcoming government proposal, these will in fact be quite major changes and also changes in matters that are constantly topical. After all, these mining issues are very long-term issues. Our current mining law is not ancient, but there is not really any experience of it either, because mining is of such a nature that a mining company may sink investment funds for 10 or 15 years from the time of its search and then make a profit from it only after 15 years. Well, there were a huge number of such social hopes in this initiative that mining will also benefit Finland and will not harm others, but of course we in the report will also highlight the very important fact that mining is a very important and good industry for Finland, Mr President. It is good for the whole world because Finland is a major producer of minerals needed for this climate revolution and the battery industry in particular. If we act wisely, then as Finland we will have the opportunity to create products from these minerals at a higher processing level than has been done so far. So, of course, our second great motive in this report is to emphasise that all these constraints and the aspirations of society that must be placed on extractive activities must not, of course, make mining impossible either. It must also be seen as an important industry which, in the future, must be better coordinated with the interests of other industries, the environment and local communities. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u198	Thank you. - Let's go to the debate. I would ask those Members who wish to make a reply to this question to stand up and press the V button from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u199	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for its excellent work last spring. This citizens' initiative has been an excellent opening for discussion on this important issue at a time when the Mining Act is being reformed. And we have, of course, mirrored the content of this initiative in relation to the legislation in force as well as now the records of the Government Programme. They are quite ambitious in themselves, and it was nice to note in many respects that there were very much similarities with this initiative. But just as the government also calls for this reform to be implemented in an ecological, social and economically sustainable way. I would like to point out, for my part, that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy adopted its report unanimously and included five statements. I am sure that the key message is that, in this further preparation of the reform, not only these government programme entries will be taken into account, but will then be taken into account very carefully by the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u200	Mr President! The Mining Act now is a wide-ranging and fundamental initiative for the reform of the Mining Act. The aim of the initiative is to achieve ecologically, economically and socially sustainable mining legislation. Its reform is timely and the initiative is also linked to the objectives of the Government Programme. It should be noted that valuable natural areas must be limited beyond mining activities. The Government intends to increase the security charges paid by mining companies to compensate, inter alia, for possible environmental damage and damage to mining activities. The new mining tax could be a share of the mining company’s turnover or the value of the excavations. The Government seeks to strengthen the position of municipalities and landowners, so that tax revenue would go to mining municipalities, which the Economic Committee agrees with. Mr President! The current Mining Act entered into force in 2011 and applies to exploration for ore. No new authorisations have been granted during its period of validity. Mining projects depend on financing, economic prospects, the extent of raw material deposits and demand. Mines bring badly needed jobs and tax revenue to municipalities. Just looking for metals and testing drills is expensive work, which requires a lot of capital. This is the case with foreign mining companies that take their income away. I'm in favour of that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u201	Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has proposed in its report that the citizens' initiative be rejected, but that does not mean that there is no need for reform in mining, as the chairman of the committee, Mr Vartiainen, pointed out in his good speech. From the perspective of the Coalition Party, it is important that the extraction of our minerals is widely channelled to the benefit of society as a whole and, of course, that the potential environmental impacts and disadvantages arising from mining activities do not fall on society. Mining must look at both the mining industry and the large value chain it has formed. For example, the growing battery industry offers our country interesting opportunities to recover financially from corona discipline. We have important minerals that will be worth taking advantage of in the future. It is planned to start exploiting significant lithium reserves in the coming years. Its extraction contributes to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u202	Mr President! We all need to understand that Finland is completely dependent on imported metals and various mining-related imported materials. Finland as a welfare state and a high-tech country necessarily needs a lot of metals, and fortunately our bedrock is very rich in different ores. The Geology Research Centre has done an excellent job in its history: Finland's bedrock is very well known. It gives us the opportunity to make use of our ore resources for the benefit of our economy. Once we have chosen this system for mining, which has been in use in Finland for a long time now, we can probably no longer change it. It is still on this principle that once a research permit has been obtained, then at the same time it gives you the privilege to exploit its ore. But it will become different payments and other payments for society, which will then keep Finnish society up. What is important now is to remember that if we do not do mining in this country, then it will be transferred to such countries,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u203	Mr President! When legislation has become obsolete and creates unreasonable situations, it is time to change it. Thank you to the authors and signatories of the initiative. Unfortunately, there are constantly new movements in Finland that want to correct this mining law, and now we have a responsibility to act as representatives of the Finnish people and to do so, as we have committed ourselves to in the government. Like those who took the initiative, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy felt it was important to reform the mining legislation so that these objectives could be achieved and that mining legislation had broad social acceptability, which it does not currently have. The committee made a number of proposals for statements which, among other things, want to ensure that valuable natural areas are better protected, that they are more clearly restricted outside mining and that other industries, such as tourism, are also better taken into account. It is worth noting that now the big battery manufacturers are awakened.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u204	Mr President! The reform of the Mining Act is a very important project for the Left Alliance, and that is something we have wanted to reform last season. Yes, this law must now be reformed to protect the environment better and serve the interests of the local people. Thanks to this citizens' initiative, we now have a report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy here on this subject, and I think it is essential that it now requires the government to take account of these aspects of the reform of mining legislation in its report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy and the implementation of the objectives of the Government Programme. I myself was in the government negotiations to negotiate these government programmes for mining legislation and, as the Minister said two weeks ago in Question Time, according to the Government Programme, we are going to reform the mining legislation. And even though we have this proposal from the TEM team, it's not a government proposal,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u205	Mr President! The citizens' initiative is a very important debate initiative and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has heard a wide range of experts and taken very seriously the initiatives and the content of the initiative. Technically, the initiative is rejected, but the content is very positive. The unanimous report now shows a cross-party view of the need for reform of the law. The report strongly emphasises the environmental aspect, but also takes into account the prerequisites for sustainable mining in Finland. Municipalities' influence over mining projects in their region must be increased, and this will be done in accordance with the Government Programme. The mining tax report is also being rushed, and political negotiations on the new mining law are still ahead, because we have not even received a final proposal on civil service work. This work will therefore continue, and we are awaiting a final proposal from the Ministry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u206	Mr President! I think that this citizens' initiative, the Mining Act, is an excellent initiative now, and I appreciate the careful work they have done in preparing this initiative. The ideas and proposals of this initiative are very welcome. It is a pity that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has taken a negative position and is opposed to the adoption of this initiative, but that is something we will probably be content with — the initiative will hardly pass through Parliament in the vote. However, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has made good statements on how to take this matter forward, and in that sense the ball will now be passed on to you to the government: the Greens, the Centre Party and the Left Alliance, how will you make this environmental aspect more visible in this regard? The mining industry must take greater responsibility — after-treatment of environmental damage and damage must not fall on society, and Finns must have enough
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u207	Mr President! Thank you very much for taking the initiative. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the good and careful preparation we had in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. As has been said here, this initiative was very multi-dimensional, and this will affect the preparation of the Mining Act, the preparation of tax laws and also the preparation of the Environmental Law, which we dealt with very carefully in every direction, and there are also a number of issues relating to the guidelines of the Government Programme, as the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Vartiainen, of the Coalition Party, pointed out. Things have been refined here during this discussion, and it is considered very important that sustainable mining activities are carried out in Finland. The centre is very strongly behind this, and the centre also proposed legislation on sustainable mining as a common Nordic level. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u208	Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for its work on this citizens' initiative. This report obliges the preparation of a new mining law to take into account many of the important concerns raised in the citizens' initiative. Of course, people’s concerns about their own living and living environment have grown, while mining and exploration in Finland have intensified. The total cost of benefits and disadvantages has been limited. Environmental protection is not high enough. People cannot make their voices heard, and natural resources are being handed over too cheaply. Mines are a real threat to the already endangered Sámi culture and the very existence of the indigenous people. Mining is detrimental to the traditional livelihoods of Sami people, such as reindeer husbandry, fishing, hunting. I hope that the Sami people, as well as the same municipalities, should have the opportunity to ban mining in their own territory, for example the municipalities should have the right to ban mining.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u209	Mr President! It is important that the citizens' initiative has been dealt with in Parliament, and I particularly liked the fact that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy had considered it important to weigh between interests in terms of the acceptability of mining activities, and I hope that the message now goes to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, and that it will also be taken into account in this legislative process. Of course, we must remember that the reform of the Mining Act is under way, so the citizens' initiative in itself was, of course, quite timely and in the right place, that there should be more food there: accountability, strengthening local democracy, environmental protection, the rights of the Sami people as indigenous people, and, above all, the fact that we are able to match all such perverse means and strengthen the conditions and opportunities for responsible and fair mining companies to create jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u210	Mr President! This citizens' initiative provides a good basis for mining legislation, as has been well said here, and I think it is very important. We must bear in mind that mining is a sector of activity which currently employs a considerable amount of employment and then produces various minerals, which now seems to be needed more and more in this electronic period. I would like to raise the issue of the right of veto for municipalities, which means that it is very important that the municipalities have the opportunity to decide how close the mining can be to the living environment. Similarly, the authorisation procedure — this is something that has stretched some mining projects for a long time, and this is certainly not advantageous to the applicant for the permit, nor to those who have
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u211	Mr President! I really do thank the people who have taken up this citizens' initiative. The spirit of the initiative is extremely good. Even if this is not going through as it is now, it is important, however, to make laws that lead to much more sustainable activities that do not bring about such disasters as have been done in previous years. I really hope that the government will have the ability in its wisdom, from the point of view of both the green values and the national economy, to seek that harmony so as not to go overboard on the fact that nothing is done, because those materials and minerals will be dug somewhere in the world anyway. It would be great if they were dug here in Finland in a sustainable way and with enough law enforcement and sanctions to get it done, but let's give it to those mines for real.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u212	Mr President! I too would like to thank the committee for its one-inch work, because the mining law and the mine-related issues are generally such that they create great contradictions. As we have heard in this Chamber, I very much appreciate the committee's wide-ranging knowledge of this issue and, in fact, the government programme already made very significant records of how the mining law should be developed a year and a half ago. And I think it is important that even though the municipalities have already had the opportunity, through planning, to tell new mines whether or not it will be there, this possibility will also come into the mining law itself, and, on the other hand, this environmental liability compensation will certainly be specified in the government's proposal. Moreover, this issue of taxation is important and I hope, as is the case with the committee, that it will still be possible to deal with it during this parliamentary term. Even the wrong information about the mines is on the move. In the Sámi area, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u213	Mr President! Finns simply deserve a stricter mining law. The main problems at the moment concern takeover practices, inadequate taxation, the rights of landowners and a weak environmental liability system. I am not concerned about the rejection of the citizens' initiative to tighten up mining. I strongly believe that its contents will remain alive. This is also reflected in the fact that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has made such strong proposals. This is illustrated by the statement by the Section for Housing and the Environment of the Committee on Finance on the post-mine management and management. Since the Government Programme also has very strict notes on what is required of the new mining law, I am confident that we will achieve a better mining law in this government, despite the fact that the working party's proposal is still pending.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u214	Mr President! In mining, it is important to take into account its economic and ecological effects, which are typically significant at least at regional level. The citizens' initiative is motivated by genuine concern for significant environmental damage. Mining must take account of the environmental aspect in a sustainable way. At the same time, however, the mining sector is an important industry. It is our job to create legislation that ensures the continuity of mining operations while taking into account the ecological dimension. We do not want and do not need mines that destroy our nature and dirty our water resources. Many of the proposals of the citizens' initiative are in line with the reform needs identified in the Government Programme in terms of content and objectives. Proposals for statements in the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy should be implemented. The important thing is to find out about that mining tax mentioned in the Government Programme, a separate mining tax. If, for example, this could be provided as a tax on real estate tax and on the municipality,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u215	Mr President! I would also like to thank the authors of the initiative and, of course, the committee. As has already been said and noted, the Mining Act Citizens' Initiative has been an important source of debate on the reform of the Mining Act and on the shortcomings of current legislation. I really appreciate this opening, and that is exactly the kind of opening we need in order to be able to protect the environment even better in the future. And as Mr Kopra said there, I also fully agree that there should be scope for influence, whether it be a landowner or a property owner. The ability of municipalities to influence planning is also very important, and I therefore believe that this debate will also take these objectives forward in the preparation of the Mining Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u216	Mr President! The public debate around the reform of the Mining Act shows that this citizens' initiative has been very important, impressive and necessary. It highlights with merit the pains of the present, outdated mining law and creates pressure for significant changes. Mining is a huge scale of activity that destroys nature and the landscape, at its worst pollutes water bodies and changes the environment, bypasses local residents and other livelihoods and the local economy. The current Mining Act does not meet today's values, requirements and expectations in relation to nature and the influence of residents. Therefore, cosmetic changes are not enough and a comprehensive reform is needed. I too would like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for the report which provides guidelines for further drafting of the law. Thank you, too, to all those who contributed to the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u217	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! I would also like to thank the authors of the initiative and the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, my colleagues. I would like to raise a few quick points here. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stressed, among other things, the importance of promoting research and development and increasing value added. This means, in addition to further processing of minerals, the production of battery cells, for example, underlining and respecting the principles of the circular economy. Finland must promote education, research and innovation and patents related to electricity and energy storage. The storage of electricity and energy must also be developed from environmentally sustainable materials. This is a thick, good report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u218	Mr President! Thank you very much to the authors of this citizens' initiative, and also to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for this report. When both the citizens' initiative and the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy go through it, you will see that the same things have been taken into account, and the same things have also been addressed in the Government Programme. Those five statements by the committee are very important and I personally hope that they will be taken into account and also as a basis for the adoption of the new mining law. In particular, in my view, the statement stating that ‘the Member State requires the government to ensure that the legislation governingmining is more clear to other economic activities and housing than at present,the protection of important and unremuneratedregions,and to ensure I personally hope that when these mines are planned, the people and landowners in the region will be better able to participate in decision-making, because they are their own regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u219	Thank you. I will give you seven more answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u220	Mr President! Clean, diverse nature and a comfortable environment are riches and values that must be nurtured in sustainable mining operations. It is worth taking advantage of the ideas of the citizens' initiative. Thank you also to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and VTT and its partners are studying mineral traceability, fingerprinting. Finland has a very good chance of producing responsiblely produced metals with a mineral fingerprint that has a head start on the world market. Mining is an important industry for Finland. Let's take the locals into consideration. I also think it is important to promote the reuse of mines when mining is due to stop. It would help mining sites to move ahead with structural change.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u221	Mr President! Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers. It has been said for a long time that Finland is the Congo of the Nordic Region as far as mining is concerned. Here, for example, in booking practices, mines seem to be wedged above everything. The repair of the damage caused by the mine will also be dealt with by others. We will do our best to tighten up considerably the draft Mining Act drawn up by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. Obligations can not only be put together later in other laws to resolve, but also on the whole, in terms of mining law, mining tax and, for example, the Nature Conservation Act and the Land Use and Construction Act, must be agreed at once to provide us with a sufficiently strong means of steering mining operations. This government has also seen new growth potential in the battery cluster. I very much hope that it will be born in Finland, especially from research and knowledge, not just from easy access to soil minerals. Unrealistic expectations of mining productivity and employment effects should therefore be abandoned.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u222	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the citizens' initiativeers for having a good debate. As has already been said in this debate, Parliament will then demand that the government take account of the points raised by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the reform of the mining legislation in its report on the initiative and of the implementation of the objectives of the Government Programme. It is obvious, and it is also the centre's line, that mines are needed, but nature is protected and local rights are safeguarded and mining is then coordinated locally with the rest of the mining industry and business activity in each mining area, now that this confrontation is sometimes carried out in relation to mining activities and, for example, tourism. Mr President! I must say that the opposition is now shining with its absence. But I must thank the representatives of Sankelo and Kopra for having you here today to discuss this issue. But now, Mr President, it is somewhat unclear.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u223	Let me just say that representatives have been asked to be in their offices to listen to the debate if there is nothing to talk about in this matter, that there is not necessarily absent from the debate, but to listen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u224	Mr President! In answer to that question, the Coalition Party definitely supports sustainable, strong mining operations in Finland, adapting to local situations and other industries, that is obvious. I also hope that the government will be consistent in taking forward this legislation. These draft articles have caused turmoil within the government, and hopefully the message will become clearer, perhaps on the basis of this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. After all, mining is a long-term work that lasts for years. The regulation and the conditions cannot be too much, the cost of setting up a mine is high. The mining industry employs 7,000 people and has a turnover of EUR 2 billion per year. Yes, these are important economic issues,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u225	Mr President! This popular initiative will now unfortunately be rejected. Fortunately, however, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has made five excellent statements, and they must then be baked into that bill by you in the government. I am a little surprised when, for example, the Greens' speeches have been deeply concerned about the shortcomings of this current legislation, yet only two representatives of the Greens' Parliament have anything to say about this, the others are absent. It would be great if the environmental party were here to discuss the matter. The second thing I wonder about the Group of the Greens is that you, in these speeches — your representatives here have been here — have criticised the negative aspects of the current legislation from an environmental point of view. But then, with one hand in the government, you have approved EUR 450 million in funding and funding for various ore exploration projects and mining projects and research, including those that will take place in the Saimaa region, and your actions may lead, for example, to the establishment of mines in the Saimaa region.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u226	Mr President! I personally think that this citizens' initiative is now an important addition to this reform of the Mining Act, which we are in the process of doing when we have these good government programme records. Now we are getting these important additions through this debate. I myself would like to make a specific point about this mining tax. It has been a very important issue for the Left Alliance, and it is now being promoted as a project of its own within the government. I am pleased that this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy advocates a mining tax. Then, as far as this mineral needs is concerned, I myself think that climate change requires an energy breakthrough which means that these metals are needed. At the same time, however, there must be a starting point for all economic activities, including the mining industry, to be within the framework of environmental conditions and also within the public sense of justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u227	Thank you. And then, Mr Mäkynen, let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u228	Mr President! It is very nice to note that there is a broad consensus in Parliament that the Mining Act should be reformed. This is reflected in the praise of the government programme over the opposition-government line as well as in this unanimous report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. In substance, we are moving very strongly towards this citizens' initiative. As has also been pointed out in this debate, security regulation will be developed, local authorities will have more influence over planning, environmental values will be strengthened and at the same time the Nature Conservation Act will be reformed. This comparison of interests, on the one hand, the introduction of a mining tax, on the other hand, is also being clarified and needs to be speeded up. It is possible for Finland to act as a model country for sustainable industry and environmental value coordination as a result of the electrification of society, and here we have excellent expertise. That is why the emphasis made by Mr Strand on research and knowledge is very welcome. When we talk about the Saimaa region, we could say that mining processes will have to be more careful about these environmental aspects and the impact on water.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u229	Mr President! First of all, the ambitious reform of the Mining Act certainly does not catch the Greens — this is for the previous speaker, the opposition representative — and we have made a number of statements that environmental conditions and also human rights need to be better taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u232	Mr President! In my previous speech, I raised the economic importance of mining for Finland — 7000 people and a turnover of 2 billion. It is not an insignificant matter in the current and future economic situation. Mr President! Of course, it is clear that the mining sector must also take responsibility for its activities. After-treatment of environmental damage and damage should not fall on society under any circumstances. And let us take examples: there are still mines in Finland where there are no guarantees at all. Another problem arises in the event of bankruptcy, where after-care has fallen to the taxpayer. The holder of a exploration permit shall lodge a security in order to compensate for any damage or damage and to carry out the killing and subsequent operations. It is clear that mining has a significant impact on the region's nature and other industries, and we need to find ways of coordinating this. Above all, the guarantees paid by the mines must be at the right level and the guarantee should cover all the costs of closure and after-care that will then exist in the future. Well, the other thing about this whole thing is that Finns must receive adequate compensation for the exploitation of our non-renewable minerals, and the model may be such a mining tax. This will allow us to think about how society will then get the best part of the result of what the mining company and the mining industry produce. This debate has also highlighted the potential of municipalities and municipalities to exert influence in planning mining activities. It is clear that this needs to be improved and, in all cases, there should be a legal formula for general or station. Of course, the coverage of environmental protection must also be improved in the context of the reform of this future mining law. The records relating to the renewal of the Mining Act in the Government Programme are mostly good, but many public problems are related to environmental protection rather than to the Mining Act. In any case, from the point of view of the opposition, greetings are given to the fact that in this legislative process, when the government finds a common note in it, there are two key issues: economic aspects which are essential to Finland, environmental considerations are essential to Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u233	Mr President! Once again, thank you to the citizens' initiativeers for raising this important issue in the form of a well-prepared citizens' initiative, and also to all those who have signed it. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for its very thorough work on this matter and for the work of the unanimous report and the heavy statements. They provide guidelines for further drafting of the law, as has been well stated here in the Chamber. In this context, I would also like to thank the representative of the Greens, Mari Holopais, in particular, for her very thorough attention to this issue. The guidelines put forward by the Mining Law Group, which have been made public, have raised a great deal of concern and rightly so, but, as has been said here, this is only a proposal for the preparation of posts, which now needs to be made significant changes in further preparation. This work will now continue on the basis of both government programme records and the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I think it is important that civil society continues to actively monitor this preparation and take a position. Mr President! The Mining Act needs to be reformed in such a way that nature reserves and valuable natural areas are limited outside the mining sector and that municipalities are given the power to decide whether or not to enter their territory. Similarly, the rights of the Sámi must be strengthened and exploration permits restricted. It is important that the environment and other livelihoods are better taken into account when deciding on mining permits and that it is ensured that the environmental disadvantages of mines are not borne by society. Indeed, in addition to taking greater account of the environment and the local population in the future, we must finally recognise and recognise the nature of mining minerals as unique natural resources, the exploitation of which society really must and must take up and receive compensation. It is good that there is broad consensus in Parliament on this. Similarly, the mining tax report under the Government Programme must be carried out without delay in such a way that the legislative reforms on mining taxation can still be carried out during this term of government, and once this debate has been listened to, I believe and trust that this issue will also be brought forward without delay. Mr President! A ban on the establishment of mines in nature reserves, national parks or other valuable natural areas must indeed be introduced in the new Mining Act and it must be possible to limit the search for mal if it causes significant damage to the environment or to other economic activities or if it conflicts with environmental or cultural values. In its report, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy called for clarification of the responsibility of mine permit applicants for the impact on the Sámi culture, i.e. at least the genuine influence of Sámi on mining law projects in their region should be ensured in the future. Mr President! On an even wider scale: it is indeed necessary for us to learn how to use all our natural resources sustainably, and it is also most important for the miners. The mining industry plays a key role in Finland's journey towards an advanced circular economy. This means that we are investing in the reuse and recycling of raw materials so that we can reduce the use of virgin raw materials. What is more, we need new technological solutions, which Mrs Holopainen has spoken very well about several times here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u234	Mr President! There has been a good debate today and, as I said before, mines are needed, but nature is protected and the rights of local people are protected, and the centre wants to be in this government, in this time making Finland a model country for sustainable mining. After all, there is mining and mining because our society is electrifying and needs minerals. We have batteries on phones, on computers and, for example, on electric cars in a few years' time, when they start to become more common — those electric cars, of course, already exist today. Work to combat climate change will also further electrify our society and thus increase the need for minerals. And yes, Mr President, it would be very inconsistent to oppose mining and, at the same time, to encourage, for example, the electrification of transport. It is also good to remember that the problems associated with the excavations will not disappear because we close our eyes for Finland and then transfer the rest of the mining operations to other countries. Mr President, I would also like to take into account in this debate the fact that Europe today consumes much more metal than can be produced in the European Union. As a result, 98% of the metallic raw materials used by the Union are imported from outside the region, and the Finnish metal industry is also heavily dependent on imports in terms of raw materials. In fact, when I come from Kainuu, and there, of course, there has been a good and bad mine, originally Winterfell, the present Terrafame, we must remember that we have the largest known nickel deposit in Europe in Sotkamo Winterfell, but yet, despite this, more than 90 per cent of the nickel pollution processed in Finland is still being imported into our country. Mr President! These are the points that have been made in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u235	Mr President! During this term of government, the most important single issue for the sustainable use of our own natural resources is the overall reform of the Mining Act. The law should be reformed in such a way that the risks to the environment are minimised. Valuable nature reserves must be fully protected from mining activities. The whole of the Mining Act and other laws is precisely where expectations are high for the government and legislators. Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers for raising these important demands, and thank you also to the active citizens for contacting us and also for telling us the glaring examples of their own region. I hope that the situation that our current legislation has led to and the need to change it has become clear to everyone. The requirements of the citizens' initiative are important and shared by the Greens: 1) Municipalities must have the right to say, if they so wish, not to mining activities in their territory. 2) The rights of landowners and residents and Sámi must be strengthened. 3) Minerals in the rock can only be used and used once. That is why society should receive good compensation for the exploitation of our common property, for example in the form of a mining tax. A tax based on the amount of extracted aggregates would also encourage the reduction of the amount of mining of waste material that is loaded on the environment. 4) Mining should not be allowed in valuable natural areas. 5) Mining minerals of Finnish soil are classified as property of the state or landowners in a manner compatible with the Constitution. In particular, the current booking policy cuts over the rights of the landowner, residents of the surrounding region and the values of nature. 6) The overall benefit of society must be assessed for each project. Thank you to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for a good and thorough reflection and a unanimous report. The report steers the preparation of the Mining Act well, and it must certainly take better account of the draft that has now been prepared at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. The report raises the following points on the initiative and calls for a speedy clarification of the mining tax, good resources for the mining licensing authorities to ensure quality, and for the government to protect areas of unreplaceable natural value and also other industries, such as tourism, better than at present. In other words, an overall assessment of the benefits and disadvantages is really needed, not on the terms of just one sector. Here Mr Kopra raised quite the relevant concern that this government too was prepared to invest significantly in the battery cluster, its potential being seen. As I said in the debate, I hope that this potential will be seen first and foremost in research, development and knowledge, not in the easy way to get to grips with soil minerals. This enthusiasm to invest in the battery cluster increases our responsibility to regulate a strong mining law. It is clear that citizens want mining to bear social and environmental responsibility more strongly, and that is what we need to ensure through legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u236	Mr President! Thank you again for opening up this debate to these initiators. Indeed, this initiative has a wide range of points of reference for the renewal of mining activities, and in many respects this goes further than what is currently being presented in our government programme or in the government programme, but they are very much in line. For example, the mining of these waters or seabed minerals has been taken into account in this citizens' initiative. They are also an important issue, which I am sure will also come up with in this reform of our mining legislation. It has been a very open process, a reform of the mining legislation, at the moment, and it is indeed in the hands of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and we hope that this autumn will bring it to the attention of Parliament. These efforts, which are here, have hopefully contributed to the preparation of the Mining Act. I would see good points in them. In other words, this initiative, as I said, has so many aspects in relation to taxation, environmental legislation and mining legislation that, in the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, this whole package could not be adopted either, that is to say, this initiative was rejected in that sense, but these ideas and proposals come out very well there, including through the ponies. This really goes to permit systems, government systems, various reservations, ore exploration and the role of municipalities. I'd like to stop this comparison of interests. It is indeed important that we have a sustainable mining industry and a competitive mining industry, given that we are already thinking a little bit of the future and also that we in Finland can process the raw material from these ores directly into products, such as battery cluster products. But on the other hand, we in these same regions will have tourism again, and in what way this comparison of interests has been made at the moment, it has been primarily a matter of town planning, that is to say, how close the activities of this tourism and mining industry can be and what kind of return they will have on the environment, or how they have affected the environment. In Levi’s surroundings, for example, these have also been taken into account. But, Mr President, there has been a good debate today in this Chamber too, and I believe that, once we get this new revised mining law back into this Chamber, it will bring us to the heart of the matter, so to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u237	Mr President! I would also like to thank the authors and signatories of the citizens' initiative for bringing this important issue here and for the fact that these additional decisions now being taken in this context are indeed binding upon us when the Mining Act is being reformed. Yes, in many ways mining law is a very important law. Soil minerals are the responsibility of all of us, and it is quite clear that the rules of the mining industry must be changed and that they must be environmentally sustainable and fair to local communities. Well, the Left Alliance has had a lot of demands for this law. Soil wealth is, in principle, a matter for citizens and society. Companies will have to pay adequate compensation for the exploitation of their national assets and for the damage to the environment. You have to pay a tax to society on a battered ore. The specific issues of cultural minority groups and religious communities must be taken into account in all mining activities, and I refer in particular to the rights of the Sámi. Municipalities must have the right to permit or prohibit mining activities in their territory. The search for ore in nature reserves should be prohibited. The environmental impact assessment must be amended so that the State is responsible for the implementation but the company pays. The future of the mining establishment must be secured by funding in case the mining business stops or the mining company goes bankrupt. In practice, therefore, we have announced that we are prepared to support more ambitious entries in the Mining Act than the Government Programme, and I would like to emphasise in this context that the proposal of the Mining Law Working Party of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy does not really reflect our view of what this final proposal will be like. In fact, the mining tax will then be cleared up as a project of its own in order to finally make a reasonable contribution to society. In any case, it is quite clear that companies must pay for the exploitation of our non-renewable joint assets and that companies must bear the responsibility for the environmental burden that their activities impose. We spoke earlier in this plenary about a good government bill on tax avoidance, and I think it should also be taken into account with the mines, which means that the tax evasion of mines must also be addressed. Almost all of Finland's mines are owned by foreign companies, and the sector has been renovated in aggressive tax planning. Of course, this has resulted in huge tax losses for Finland. Especially in such an economic situation, it is unacceptable to allow this. Then, Mr President, I would like to raise another important point which I believe has not been raised in this debate, and that is the reuse of mines and the preparation for this reuse. I think that this is something that should be on the agency already during the mining process, and I think it is also something that should be taken into account in this reform of the mining law. Finally, I would like to say that it is really great that the reform of the Mining Act is now actually taking place during this reign. The Left Alliance still wants to ensure that it is done ahead of environmental protection and local democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u238	Mr President! While Parliament is now considering this citizens' initiative Mining Act Now, the Government is preparing to reform the Mining Act and the Mining Tax Act. The ideas of this citizens' initiative are to be welcomed and should be taken into account in this preparatory work of the government. It is important that citizens and organisations are active in this regard, and thank you to those responsible for the citizens' initiative. Currently, therefore, there are legislative reforms under way in relation to mining and there is talk of a significant increase in mining activity across Finland due to, among other things, the needs of the battery industry. Of course, mining is important and is an important source of prosperity and prosperity. However, it must not be at all costs. It must be practiced with skill and regulated strictly enough to maintain important values. Finland’s nature is of absolute value and, as a rule, more valuable than the minerals that may be found here. Therefore, mining must place particular emphasis on the responsibility of the operator and ensure that no damage occurs and, if any, that the tracks are properly cleaned and repaired. A company’s promise or signature on the contract paper is not enough. Some ways in which mining is carried out are so risky that the authorisation of such activities, for example in the sensitive nature of the lakes, such as Saimaa, needs to be very critical and there needs to be broader mechanisms to prevent or prohibit operations where necessary. In the supplementary budget in the summer, the government granted a total of EUR 450 million in money or powers to search for ore and map. These activities can lead to the creation of mines with the findings. Many representatives of the government who spoke for the environment here too have given their blessing to funding. I very much hope that, despite their dual role, the representatives of the government parties, acting on behalf of nature, will take genuine steps to reform the legislation relating to mining and mining taxation in such a way that the outcome is good for the environment. The government parties have a place of evidence here, taking into account in particular the statements made by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy. In Finland, too, there are examples where the mining company has taken the wealth out of the country and left problems and pollution to the Finns to clean up and taxpayers to pay. This can't happen. Whoever gets the chance to keep the principle of mining no longer exists today. The laws in preparation must be made in such a way that Finnish society and landowners will receive adequate compensation for the exploitation of the natural resources to be mined and that any environmental problems will be dealt with with with certainty. The reservation policy based on the notification must be abandoned and mining companies must pay in for cleaning up any problems. Mr President! As I said at the outset, the ideas of the citizens' initiative are to be welcomed and the government must take into account the considerations set out in it in its preparatory work when preparing the Mining Act and the Mining Tax Act. I consider the active role played by the citizens and organisations that has been shown here to be valuable, and for that I would like to thank the people responsible for the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u239	Mr President! Local people, livelihoods, diverse nature and a comfortable environment must be taken into account in sustainable mining operations. The ideas of the citizens' initiative and the good comments of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy should be used in the reform of the Mining Act. Responsible and natural mining is an important industry for Finland. It brings a lot of work, vitality and well-being to its regions and to the country as a whole. Mining Act Now, the Citizens' Initiative is an important initiative for the reform of the Mining Act. It aims at ecologically, economically and socially sustainable mining legislation. There are a lot of amendments. The initiative provides good opportunities when we develop a responsible example of sustainable mining in Finland. We must look at mining as a whole. The benefits and disadvantages must be weighed on many sides. When we promote responsible activities, we must support socially responsible production and, of course, domestic production in particular. The opportunities for local residents to influence must be improved. The mines stir up a variety of emotions in us. We discussed the future of electric cars earlier. Among other things, electric cars need the mining industry. Minerals are needed for their batteries, although alternative battery materials should also be developed alongside them. VTT and the State Geological Research Centre have launched a three-year project with their business partners to promote sustainable production processes and the traceability of battery materials. In the future, a mineral fingerprint may reveal whether metals produced under responsible or questionable conditions have been used in electric cars, for example. Finland has a very good opportunity, for example, to produce ecologically, socially and economically responsible metals for electric car manufacturers, which have a head start in the market due to a mineral fingerprint. Mining is an important industry for the future in Finland. Minerals should be further processed as a new technology here in Finland. The EU Commission estimates that the battery market will amount to approximately EUR 250 billion in the next decade. In electric cars, the battery with its control system can make up about a quarter of the total value of the car. We have good reserves of the necessary minerals in the rock and Finnish-owned industries, such as the lithium-focused Keliber or the nickel and cobalt sulphate-producing Terrafame. Promoting this type of activity through the new mining law and making responsibility a trump card. I would like to join the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in taking note of the fact that mining minerals are one of the unique natural resources for which society must receive reasonable compensation. There is also a need to change the taxation associated with mining and to clarify compensation practices. Mr President! As I said in the debate and as Mr Kivelä said earlier, I think it is important to promote the re-use of mines, because no factory is forever, not even the mines. According to the Government Programme, the reform of the Mining Act is based on improving the level of environmental protection, ensuring conditions for mining operations and improving local acceptability and effectiveness. I have received feedback on the use and support of mines. There is a clear need for this. Extending the life cycle of mines through reuse would directly increase the local acceptability of mining activities. Re-use could bring new innovations. By the time mining stops, reuse would help the mining community in restructuring.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u240	Mr President! I find it very promising that both the government parties and the opposition will have a common will to reform the existing mining legislation so that the mining industry in Finland will be genuinely more sustainable and broadly socially acceptable in the future. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has assessed its content in relation to the legislation in force, the legislative reforms that are under way and also the government programme documents when preparing its own report and dealing with the citizens' initiative. This state of affairs is already confusing because, although this law has been in force since 2011, so long transitional periods have caused this law, which is applied in practice, to be decades old — no wonder there have been problems and ambiguities, and I am very pleased that it is now being addressed. Although it has been the committee's primary task to focus specifically on these economic aspects, we have sought to take a broad view of the responsibilities and obligations of the authorisation of environmental protection, the equal treatment of the various industries and, for example, the rights of landowners and indigenous peoples, and for this reason the consultations were also very extensive. This is a vastly diverse and multi-dimensional package, and it is therefore important that all key ministries work closely together in the preparation, so that we also have genuinely effective legislation and, of course, we ensure that it is properly monitored. But I would like to draw attention now to the fact that, although we all recognise and know the importance of the mining industry as a source of employment, given the whole value chain, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also draws attention to the fact that we should try to treat these wage-related industries as equally as possible. As has already been said, so often these mining-intensive regions also play a very important role as an enabler of local employment and also as an economic partner. I know that the government has also set very ambitious targets for the extent to which tourism's share of GDP will also be raised. In fact, here we need to pay particular attention to the extent to which there is a relevant conflict of interest between, for example, the mining industry and other industries, and to try to coordinate them. Of course, this is not an easy task, but I believe and trust that we will also make progress here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u241	Mr President! First of all, thank you to those who took the initiative. Admittedly, this mining bill has led to a lot of good discussion in Finland about how mining activities in Finland should be conducted. Very valuable data have come in, and the five statements that this unanimous report contains are very good and very indicative when work on the reform of the mining law has already begun. In order to see in the right light this report before us and the forthcoming reform of the Mining Act, it is worth remembering the big truth that Finland is totally dependent on the metals available. If we do not get metals into this land by digging them ourselves out of that bedrock, then we will import them from abroad. There is a somewhat worrying phenomenon in Finland that we here are trying to stop economic activity and we pretend that it will then do a good climate policy. That's not how it works. If we end a job here, it means that it will certainly go abroad to places where there is no legislation of any kind — or there will probably be legislation, but not as high as it is in Finland, for example, the cobalt mines known in the mining industry. If we ban mining in Finland or make it difficult to do so, they will go to countries such as Congo, where the use of child labour, among other things, is still regrettable. Our responsibility is whether we want to do those activities in this country, or whether we throw the operators out here and suffer massive unemployment, after which the standard of living will fall. If we vote in this Chamber how many people want our standard of living to be reduced by 30%, then I know the outcome of that vote in advance. It is worth remembering when, more than a hundred years ago, in Kivisalmi, Rääkkylä found the strange-looking stone that then led to Outokumpu, a place called Outokumpu — then Kuusjärvi, now known as Outokumpu City. There was indeed the strange mound, the strange nature formation, where there was a huge copper deposit. This copper deposit paid a lot of Finnish war compensation and created a standard of living in Finland. Without that well, Finland would have been in really, really big trouble. Those persons, such as Pertti Voutilainen, the long-term CEO of Outokumpu Corporation, did a worthwhile job in raising the Finnish standard of living, and all the wealth was dug from within the soil. New inventions were created, such as the flame-melting method, which is a unique technique, a time ahead of its own for decades, a clean and economical way of making metals. And now, as we look around, as the mining law is being reformed, we must make sure that mining continues in this country. If we put a note at the door, that example I have just mentioned means that the standard of living will then be on a steep decline and more unemployed people will be. Don't let anyone in this house bet on debt. There's enough and a little too much in this country. Mr President! If we talk about environmental impacts, how mines affect Finnish nature: of course they do, but we have the best environmental know-how in the world, I say. We know how to do what, how to measure it and how to do clean mining, and that work is done by Finnish mining operators every day. If we want to have a metal industry in this country – for example, the mining industry has world-class machine manufacturers in this country, and the same applies of course to many other industries, it also applies to the forestry industry, the high-end machines in this country – all of them need metals. A wise miner’s saying sounded loudly in my ears at the moment. He said that every morning, when you, ladies and gentlemen, wake up or anyone wakes up, he is very likely to be the first one to grab on to mining products, some metal — a coffeepot stings on fire, and that’s where the day begins. So let us not succumb to the fact that we are now going to confessionals to bring down the Finnish mining industry. No, we are looking for the means by which the Finnish mining industry prospers and thrives and does clean work in this country. We have a rich bedrock, as I have said many times. The Geology Research Centre GTK has done a really great job for over 100 years. Our rock base is well known, and we must ensure that we use it and keep things in proper balance — that we keep nature clean, work and livelihood here, and benefit from these wealth, which is in Finland's bedrock, even the Finnish people. Of course, even the entrepreneur who invests billions in the preparation of a large mine, for example, must have the right to get rich with that economic activity. Business must be profitable, otherwise there will soon be no business. That will then be the subject of bankruptcy law. I wish the House great wisdom in dealing with this issue so that we would not be guilty of any excesses, even in legislation, but would do so rationally, with respect for the clean nature and, above all, with respect for Finnish expertise. It's time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u242	Mr President! I would like to thank the citizens' initiative and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for the very broad familiarity and hard work that has been done to produce this report, as well as the House across the opposition and government boundaries that are involved in this matter. It has now become clear that we are in agreement that the Mining Act needs reform, and we also have common objectives in relation to its content. It is important to develop the value-added value of Finnish minerals and to develop the entire value chain related to the mining industry, as well as the utilisation and circular economy of minerals that have already been raised. As society electrifies, Finland can act as a model country for the coordination of sustainable industry and environmental values. In this context, we need more and more research and knowledge and development, and that is what the government is committed to. The citizens' initiative is a very important opener of the debate, and it may have made us even more prepared for this legislative reform than would have been the case otherwise. This has already been the subject of a hard debate in the course of the government negotiations, and it has already largely reflected in the Government Programme how this legislative reform will be carried forward, but I would argue that the citizens' initiative has moved the debate forward. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has heard a great deal of the various parties involved and has dealt very strongly not only with this economic aspect but also with the environmental as well as social aspects involved in mining, and although the technical initiative is now being rejected, the content of the proposal is very positive and along the same lines as the initiative itself. The unanimous report reflects this cross-party view of the content and need of the reform of the law. The report strongly emphasises the environmental aspect but takes into account the prerequisites for sustainable mining in Finland. The involvement of municipalities in mining projects in their regions needs to be increased and the mining tax survey has to be speeded up. The actual political negotiation of a new miner is just ahead. We have received some preliminary officials' proposals, but the final ministerial proposal is still coming, and that is what we are waiting for. In this respect, the work will continue and it is important that sufficient time is set aside for preparation. In substance, it is very important that this guarantee regulation is developed so that, in the event of damage or bankruptcy, the damage will be remedied and the restoration will be managed with certainty in the future. As has been said, municipal empowerment will be increased, environmental values will be strengthened, and this will include the reform of the Nature Conservation Act. Various studies are already under way in connection with this reform of the Mining Act, and we are in particular pressing for a comparison of interests and the introduction of a mining tax. In the future, mining processes will have to weigh environmental and water impacts more closely, listen to local residents, entrepreneurs and landowners, and ensure that the mining process does not cause undue harm to other industries, such as tourism. This affects the livelihoods of Lapland as well as the Saimaa region, for example. But it is still possible for us to engage in sustainable mining activities in Finland, and the new Mining Act will set a sustainable frame for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u243	Mr President! I would also like to join in thanking the very broad consensus on the importance of this initiative. Indeed, good objectives have been highlighted here, both in terms of the reservation system, ore exploration permits, environmental permits and then changes in taxation. Mr Kopra said about this investment money, which Parliament has previously decided on, and he is quite right in saying that, of course, we have a responsibility to ensure that we always weigh whether every citizen's euro has been used in the best possible way. Mr Kopra is right in saying that there is certainly room for us to weigh it. Unfortunately, some of the mining activities are based on the fact that, although the deposits are reasonably poor, there is indeed infraa in Finland, and then the laxity of the legislation has made it possible to make these reservations quite easily, as has been the case here several times. But it cannot be thought that we can support a particular sector simply because it is being supported, especially since these profits seem to be falling completely elsewhere. Yes, we must consider that if the state invests EUR 450 million, what is the industry that also produces the maximum economic return here. And when, unfortunately, only some of Finland's appearances are such rich deposits, it cannot be said here that we are now necessarily making the best investment. Furthermore, ethical principles have emerged from this problematic operation of Trafigura, so it is very difficult to justify that 450 million have now gone to the best possible use. It would also make sense to decentralise the state's financial contributions. We know that we have an over-focused industrial structure, and we have many areas of the future, so we hope that this will be seen a little further. And, as many have said now, the battery industry based on the use of these kinds of metals will only be an intermediate stage, so we must make sure that our nature and water bodies are not left in bad shape because of this kind of intermediate phase, but that this legislation will be made ambitious, as so many people here have required and Parliament requires with this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u244	Mr President! Once again, I would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers and the group of 60,000 people who have signed the citizens' initiative for allowing us to have this good, constructively diverse debate in this Chamber today. Mr President! I would also like to remind you that in this country, in this world, mines are needed, but protecting nature and protecting the rights of local people, and that clean and diverse nature and a pleasant environment are riches and values that must also be nurtured in the mining industry. Responsible mining operations take these into account. Mr President! We have had a good debate today, and I would like to point out in a certain way the problem that this citizens' initiative is proposing a mining tax. Not all mines are as profitable to each other, and if such a possible mining tax were to be imposed, I would believe that it would treat mining companies unequally. Taxation should focus on the net return of the mine, which, if such additional taxes were to come, would then be taxed. With regard to this taxation and anyway, if taxes were to come, these municipalities, where mines are located, would then earn compensation through possible taxation, and if such environmental damage were to arise in mining, then it would be appropriate then with these money these disadvantages would be compensated. Mr President! However, we must not see the mining industry as some kind of troll. For example, at Kainuu Sotkamo in Terrafame, now that we have talked about this further processing, a battery chemical plant is being created, whose products will then end up in electric car batteries, among other things. I think it is more sustainable and responsible to mine these minerals here in Finland than to import these potential minerals, for example, from the African Congo, where monitoring or consideration of nature would probably not be as accurate as we do in the North.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u245	Mr President! In this regard, the Committee notes that it is essential for the environmental impact to distinguish between the different environmental impacts of the types of mining. For example, the environmental impact of lime extraction and metal mines is very different. The most significant damage to endangered species is the extraction of lime. The most harmful for mine water management and nearby water bodies are metal ore mines with heavy metal emissions. It also states that mining always has an impact on its environment, so of course this is an important aspect to take into account that there is no solution in this that would have no impact on the environment, and it is therefore important to ensure adequate, better environmental protection, to do so by means of legislation and to ensure that the state of our waters does not deteriorate. Unfortunately, there are a number of clean waters in Northern Finland as well as in Saimaa under threat, and mining is one of the factors which, if implemented, would weaken the condition of these waters, because, as has been said, the environmental impact will always be caused by the drainage systems and then, of course, by its enrichment. We also have other valuable natural resources, such as clean water bodies, but in rather shallow lakes, so they cannot withstand the burden, and with climate change the value of these waters continues to rise. It may not have been understood in Finland yet how valuable a resource our clean lakes are. It must also be said that, in the context of climate change, reducing the consumption of natural resources is very important, so all of these are linked. But thank you all for having a good debate and also for this very unanimous state of affairs, that we now need those changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-06-ps-124.u246	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The matter was removed from the agenda at the plenary session on 2 October 2020.
