ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u2	Mr President! This bill proposes a temporary restriction on the opening hours of catering establishments, which would mean: until the end of May. Nutritional establishments should stop providing products to customers at the premises of the restaurants. However, the sale would still be allowed. We all know what the situation is in Finland at the moment. There's an emergency situation here, and last night the Uusimaa border is closed. It is very important that restrictive measures are now being taken within Uusimaa to prevent the spread of the virus here too within the borders, but at the same time measures must be taken throughout Finland. That is why it is also necessary to close down the restaurants in order to stop the gatherings and the spread of the virus. At the same time, this is a very sad day in the sense that this means a significant death blow for many restaurants. This will mean a significant drop in income for them, and not all restaurants will be able to go out as agilely as they could imagine. It's not easy. It means for these entrepreneurs a significant change in the life situation, mental health problems and other what this kind of sudden cessation of business or temporary interruption means. It also means loss of work and loss of income for many workers. At present, there are many people in Finland whose livelihoods are threatened and who are in a very difficult situation. There are all kinds of things involved: families with children, single parents and individuals. This proposal will exclude workplace restaurants, those that cannot be eaten from the outside, and it is, of course, justified in hospitals, for example, to continue to provide food to workers in places where people work in critical sectors. However, it is important there too, and wherever this workplace meal is offered, that special attention be paid to the hygiene level, that if there is a buffet type, there are disinfectants and preferably still different takers for different people, and there are safety distances also there in restaurants. Now that this proposal has been here at second reading, it would be possible to bring this into force today, so that it would also be legal that no restaurant or pub could be open tomorrow night if the Council of State is now adopting a regulation to bring this into force. When we have Prime Minister Mari here, I could ask at the same time: will the government, the Government now do this today so that it will be binding everywhere in Finland and this will actually be put into practice right now and not as a recommendation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u3	Mr President! I don't think anyone needs to go back to what was seen some time ago in the tourist centers in the north. There the instructions and precautions given were ignored. Fortunately, however, crisis awareness has improved fairly. After all, the most annoying thing about that arrangement was that some of those people who rushed into the northern exorcism came directly from the south’s solar beaches, from high - risk areas. My own company, Utsjoki, contacted and described the situation there: the Norwegian border has been closed. All the tourists have left. Only local residents, a thousand people in total, remain in the area of the big municipality. There have been no observed infections, and the next municipal centre is well over 100 kilometres away. When the only bar or diner is closed, however, the same people visit a grocery store across the street where the contacts are at least as close as they would be at this feeding place. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has, in its own report, considered this possibility of territorial delimitation in a proper way, and I hope that those who prepare and decide on this implementing regulation will take these references seriously into account. However, considering that these small businesses are also important for those large tourism companies — tourism is very much networked and there is still a very long subcontracting chain — if those grass-roots small enterprises die in this storm, it is extremely difficult to fill the hole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u4	Mr President! This is one and certainly a good way to try to limit the spread of the corona virus. It is a good and worthwhile measure and I hope it will also provide good support for these other means that we use. However, it must also be remembered that this is a major blow to the whole food industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u5	Mr President! In times of difficulty, flexible legislative work is also needed. This was a matter of rapid work and it was hoped that it would have come into force this weekend. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs called, among other things, for a technical change to be made in order to see the regional situation, especially when it comes to the dismantling of restaurants. It was a common state of desire. On the basis of the information received, it is justified to close down restaurants throughout the country, and there was no doubt about this. In the press, however, at some point in the process, unfortunately, before the whole report had been adopted, there was such a misunderstanding that there was a desire to look more at this regional opening time. But we really did work on a tight schedule, the report was written at the same time as it was discussed. Now that this, too. However, the timetable for Uusimaa was well achieved through cooperation between the Government and Parliament and the weighing of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and these necessary changes have been made, so that there were already concrete piglets in place and the closures were immediately closed, so of course one could ask — since everyone will certainly want to stretch and be flexible in such a situation when it is known that the epidemic situation has progressed — is it possible that such a technical regulation could also be dealt with in order to bring this decision into force? Of course, this is a tough blow for small entrepreneurs and even bigger entrepreneurs, and that is why it has now been agreed that, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy called for in their own opinion and in their report, we will also find ways of supporting some of this difficult situation. Unfortunately, small entrepreneurs and large entrepreneurs face the same situation. There was also a discussion as to whether there could be some sort of square limitation of the customer base, but it may not be justified in this situation, which seeks to avoid social and physical contact, because the ultimate purpose of the restaurant is to bring people together and spend time there. Now this is not advisable, as the vi-rus epidemic is progressing in Europe and Finland, and it was considered necessary to implement it in this way. However, the opinion of Mara, the tourism and restaurant sector, also commended the fact that this is a take-away opportunity and that staff restaurants can also be kept open. Now they will be, and if it is necessary — if there are critical sectors that need food — then it will be guaranteed. There too, of course, the same precautions must be taken. I don't think it's appropriate, for example, to have a buffet service. But it can be solved then in further processing, just like many other restaurants have already moved on to such individual catering and other solutions that this epidemic now requires. There have been some reliefs, but it is nevertheless necessary that we really quickly contain the epidemic. The situation is still reasonably good, if you can say so, somewhere in Finland with regard to the epidemic, so it is certainly worth keeping it that way and not taking unnecessary risks. All we need here is a few points where, even if the restaurant, the bar karaoke, would spread the chain of infection, and it would also have a major impact on the epidemic situation in Finland. Of course, they do not want to take such risks now. Yesterday we heard about a new estimate by researchers, which had quite a wide range of cases, between maximum and minimum, and the THL estimate hit the ground. Indeed, scientists warned that in the next week our work and, of course, everyone's own behaviour will determine whether or not our intensive care facilities will last, and there is also a risk that they will be filled in the next few weeks. Of course, we can all make a difference here. That is why it is really important to take these measures proactively and to do flexible legislative work so that everything can be put into effect as soon as possible, and now, next, look towards Uusimaa and think about how to stop the epidemic in Uusimaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u6	Mr President! Today, from day to day, we have taken historic and exceptional decisions. Last night the borders of Uusimaa were closed off from traffic and Uusimaa was isolated from the rest of Finland — or whether the rest of Finland was isolated from Uusimaa, the taste issue, depends on how it is viewed. The essential thing is that these restrictions on movement have come into force. We have a well-established discussion already on this kind of concept as a coronal. Maybe. Uusimaa as such is not an actual interest rate, but these restrictions have been necessary in order to prevent corona virus infections from spreading from here at such a steep rate to other parts of Finland as it did. On the other hand, there is a desire to protect the health capacity in other parts of Finland, that the neo-Americans do not meet it, which is justifiable. But if we are talking about coronals, then this international debate is already telling us that these coronals, bars, restaurants, cafés, nightclubs have been the real thing. Finland has also been infected with these bars in the Alpine villages, for example. And in that sense this decision that we are now shutting down restaurants, liquor shops and nightclubs, bars, is perfectly justified. However, it is a question of places where we are longer together and where this possibility of droplet infection is many times greater than other forms of interaction. In this regard, Mr Mustajärvi referred, among other things, to a visit to the store, to the fact that it is comparable. It's not like that. The store is short-term, focusing on other things than socializing with people and interacting with one another. Distances can be kept in peace, but when you are in restaurants, bars, nightclubs and other places, it is the purpose of people to communicate with each other. This interaction, physical interaction, is precisely what we want to avoid, and in that respect this decision is most justified. It must be understood that this is a very big, significant transaction: more than EUR 5 billion in turnover, 50,000 employees, 10,000 entrepreneurs. This is now a major change in Finland. Of course, in many ways we must try to meet entrepreneurs and workers in this situation, that is clear. But this decision is drastic in this respect for the whole industry, but also for all Finns, because this is of course a loss known in every cell, anywhere in every church village. In this respect, we are stuck to the big issue. Representative Holopainen here pointed out that our estimates vary as to what this potential risk is in the kingdom, how quickly this corona virus epidemic is expanding in Finland. With the Prime Minister here, I would now like to thank you for the strong efforts that have been made. It is therefore difficult to assess these because we have taken preventive measures. Of course, our starting point is that they would curb the spread of this epidemic as far as possible, and in that sense one can still hope that the lowest estimates will be achieved. At least we've done our best. And one of our best efforts is precisely what we are doing here: we are putting these — now I am using a bit of a hard term — coronas closed, above all these restaurants, liquor shops and nightclubs, of which it is clear that the corona has spread strongly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u7	Mr President! The fact is that this government cannot be blamed for its lack of action. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Marin, the government has acted with great determination, firmness and crisis-consciousness. All these measures that have now been implemented have been necessary, and it is very good to see that more is coming. It is perfectly understandable that many companies now experience the pain of what the future looks like. Today, the additional budget decided on here yesterday, which the government brought here for a decision, EUR 1 billion — which is historically large — specifically reflects the scale and awareness of this crisis, the government is awake. I understand that next week we are still bringing in a regulation which would allow the Ely Centres to be involved so that small businesses with between 1 and 5 employees would not be left alone in this crisis. When the Prime Minister is here — perhaps I myself would have recommended that you rest today, but I know how conscientious you are, and that is why you are sitting here today — perhaps you could tell us more about the plans the government has, even though today we are dealing with this one regulation. Finally, thank you very much from ordinary people. People will contact you via email, telephone. I myself spent a good hour on the phone yesterday, calling back the people who had made the call, asking questions, but, above all, thank you, saying that we have a good government — a government that has dared to introduce very large, very powerful measures, but in this crisis they have been necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u9	Mr President! Yesterday, when the borders were closed and today, in view of these decisions, restaurants, this is a difficult time. It's a really tough hit for the entrepreneurs. The other night a restaurant entrepreneur called, crying at the kitchen table that what he was going to do when recommendations alone dropped 90 percent of sales. Take away the incomes of restaurants do not run, but it is now necessary to do this, and hopefully it will be done as quickly as possible. The committee has included statements in its report, and they are not in any way easy to implement: for example, it is mentioned here that the government must take action without delay to support the livelihood of restaurant entrepreneurs, if necessary, during a state of emergency and its dismantling, while at the same time ensuring fair competition and so on. But this is not just a matter of restaurant entrepreneurs, café entrepreneurs, pub operators, but of all entrepreneurs in this country: hairdressers, masseurs, shops. All of a sudden, the income drops, and you have to react. I could say that the government is actually faced with an impossible task when it has to respond to all these wishes, both for entrepreneurs and for employees, but perhaps the only luck in that is that the government and the opposition are united in this Parliament so that we can seek these solutions that can meet these painful needs. I could ask if there are members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs present here, that when they stated in their opinion on this regional scope, they would be given the opportunity to take these restrictions out at some point, if it seems that the disease has not spread, or it is easier to suddenly go out in some region of Finland to dismantle them, what does this mean in practice? Earlier, when we were talking about these limits in Uusimaa, we were wondering what region it is, whether it is a province or a municipality, so who is going to limit it when the restrictions are to be lifted, whether it is by municipality, by region or by region?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u10	Mr President! I would like to thank the government for the law to temporarily change accommodation and nutrition activities so that the last coronals stop all over Finland when people don't gather in bars and diners to let them. Unfortunately, the proposal came late, like other government measures and preparations so far, but of course we are prepared to support all these protection measures, as long as they are dealt with. In other weekends, many nightclubs are still running to the full, and despite the recommendations, there have also been bars open yesterday, as we read today, for example, in the Evening Report. Even in the midst of the crisis, we cannot rely solely on recommendations, because not everyone is following them. However, I would like to thank the majority of the companies in the sector who have done the right thing and have been involved in the protection measures, taking on huge shocks to their economy. However, if the State intervenes in the pursuit of a business in such a way that customers leave the business, it is absolutely necessary for the government to propose adequate support measures. However, a large number of companies have already taken the attacks voluntarily, and many entrepreneurial families live in uncertain times when their livelihoods are built on their own entrepreneurship. The government has presented its first support measures, but, as we have heard from the entrepreneur field, they are unfortunately not enough. Two days ago, the Aalto University research team, led by Vesa Puttonen, produced a report on the survival of companies under exceptional circumstances, and it is hard to read. Mr President, it states that between 39% and 50% of businesses in the food and tourism sectors can face payment difficulties within a month without external support. In half, between 85% and 90% of businesses would not survive without support from a situation in which some degree of industry closure would last for six months. This if something should wake up the government and all of us. Therefore, when you consider new measures, they must be proportionate to the collapse of this size class. Otherwise, in addition to entrepreneurs, we will also have a huge number of jobs that will collapse. We are prepared to support you in hard and costly efforts to support entrepreneurs. Another option would be even more expensive for Finland in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u11	Mr President! Over the past two weeks, I myself have received very concerned and desperate contacts from tourism and restaurant entrepreneurs and employees all over Finland, especially, as I am sure very many others in this Chamber. After all, the closing order is not a normal business risk but a business ban imposed by the State in this case. Unfortunately, small rent discounts do not bring much comfort to entrepreneurs. So, as has already been heard from the previous speech, support measures have been put forward in this area, but these support measures are certainly not enough. The government should fully compensate entrepreneurs for their losses. The Coalition Party has proposed a so-called interest rate subsidy for the restaurant sector, which could be based, for example, on the sales margin of the previous six to twelve months. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what new support measures might be planned for the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u12	Mr President! Last night, the borders between Uusimaa and the rest of Finland were closed or the movement was severely restricted, and today is the next big step to catching up with customers. There, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have been working very closely, long hours, and on this subject too, we are considering both the necessity and proportionality. And in both of these cornerstones, we have come to the conclusion that this restriction, which is also necessary to move this proposal forward, is precisely because the corona virus is moving exceptionally fast, is spreading both in Europe and in Finland, and this measure to prevent the spread of the virus is necessary in this respect, in order to severely limit the spread of the virus. However, as we noted here in the opinion, ‘the application of the regulation proposed in the light of the availableinformation on the spread of the virus, however,is of the opinion of the And when Mr Ovaska asked how this would be possible, a delimitation of the territorial scope is possible, for example, by means of a Government decree, where, if necessary, consideration could be given to determining more precisely what the region is. The area can be a very large part of Finland or one of the provinces or so on. Then, when we were thinking about this proportionality, of course, there came this question, a sore, sore question, that what happens to entrepreneurs, restaurants, and this applies to a really large number of operators. What matters is precisely the possibilities for traders to adapt to such a sudden change in legislation. In this respect, the Constitutional Committee was very unanimous and also experts, i.e. ‘taking into account the exceptional effects and effects of the proposed regulation,the Constitutional Constitutional Committee considers it essential that the law regulates both the reasonable compensation for the losses caused by the prohibition under Article 3a and the mitigating arrangements for traders’. I would ask now that the Prime Minister is here: How far and firmly are you taking these steps to moderate or mitigate these losses? And have you considered clear guidelines for traders as to where these subsidies and aids can be obtained, because such enquiries are constantly coming in? On the other hand, while there is, I would say, a great deal of compassion and heart in thinking of the business community, I would also like to appeal to the fact that, although the situation is currently difficult, they would also pick up the phone and, for example, those landlords would courageously call and ask for this rent reduction, a substantial one, or would it be possible, for example, to give these traders a few months' rent-free leave? In this respect, I would appeal to the landlords that, if at all possible, it would be handed out to the traders at this stage. On the other hand, I would also appeal to all of us citizens, to whom it is possible for us to make use of the fact that we can order those meals, or something else that these traders have produced in the restaurants there, these take-away services. And even for those restaurants in nearby areas, for those who have not been able to quickly set up such activities, we might be able to pick up the phone and encourage them and ask if it is possible to order something, whether it is possible to get something, perhaps once, a few times a week. And would there be, for example, elderly people or families close to us for whom we could share in passing on some food rations, for example? I know that in our parliamentary group this kind of activity has already begun. Even a few times, 20 to 25 rations of food have been taken from there, and the phone has been ringing from a familiar circle that there is an opportunity and a desire for this type of activity. But all in all, I would say that we are now in a very exceptional situation in Finland, in such a situation that everyone's contribution to these restaurants and cafés is really needed. I would think that, while I hope that the government will make rapid, swift moves to support the business community, not only the landlords for their part, but also every citizen would wonder how, in this situation, there could be real support for those euros, but also by supporting and accompanying them mentally, because I think that if each one of us puts those euros on the line and thinks of ways to do so, we can find ways to do so. Of course, I have also enjoyed the news and, let me say, very creative solutions, which some of the entrepreneurs or their close circle have already come up with at this stage: that two entrepreneurs have been involved, and then, for their part, they are delivering food rations, for example. And there are many other kinds of creative methods. I wish such good ideas banks could also spread. What is important is that the recession does not hit us or the entrepreneurs, and I believe that together we can resolve and get through this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u13	Mr Grahn-Laasonen, then I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u14	Mr President! First of all, Prime Minister Marin, I would like to thank you for being here. It shows appreciation for Parliament, and I believe that everyone in the Chamber will also appreciate this as a symbolic gesture. Korona has pushed Finland into exceptional circumstances, and these necessary restrictions on health protection have been widely understood and unanimously supported here in Parliament. The Coalition Party has pointed out on the whole way that we must act quickly and willingly more than we think is necessary at the time, that is to say, to do these things in a forward-looking way. That is why we have been concerned that very recently the after-skis, nightclubs, pubs, restaurants are still running, even though the fact that people should avoid these social contacts was already widely presented. This proposal is now coming at the very last minute, and now, of course, it is up to us to try to get it dealt with quickly. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has done a thorough job here under the chairmanship of Mr Vartiainen, as well as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. These reports and opinions have well understood the fact that viable, well-managed restaurant companies are now losing practically all spring sales, and it is, of course, quite exceptional that this should be done by means of state restrictions — but for very understandable reasons. The unanimous report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy requires that the government take immediate action to secure the livelihood of restaurant entrepreneurs. We all understand that the effects of restrictions on restaurants are very strong and bankruptcy is near. In practice, many companies have rents to pay and staff costs and invoices to pay and practically no income at the moment. So my questions to the Prime Minister are: What is the government's plan to compensate for these direct losses to companies? When are we going to get more performances? How do you intend to ensure that Parliament’s will to secure the livelihood of entrepreneurs is also realised in practice, and how quickly can this be done? These are the questions that we representatives come up with on a daily basis. We have also had the idea of producing proposals to the government that are freely available. We are trying to offer all our expertise, and we also hope that parliamentary cooperation will enable these measures to be taken as quickly as possible. Our proposals include, among other things, the return of early-year alves to businesses. In addition to this, we have proposed — once the take-away has been allowed — to extend, for example, the household allowance, as well as the use of service vouchers and also the reduction of the regulation of the catering sector under exceptional circumstances, so that alternative business can be built now at this time of crisis and, at the same time, to ensure that people have access to food even under exceptional circumstances. And I would like to ask: is there any intention of taking up these proposals within the government, and what can be done very quickly? Indeed, last night the borders of Uusimaa were closed. I never thought I would need a pass to get home to Forssa today, but we understand, of course, that under these circumstances this must be the case, that the Uusimaa region must now be isolated in Finland. I would like to ask: could the Prime Minister, with his own authority, also send out a message to the public that it is now possible to support these local companies in this situation? I myself thought today that when I get home, I will order food from local entrepreneurs by way of delivery home and then, in a small part, I will support the locals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u15	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Parliament for taking forward these necessary proposals across the Government-Opposition boundaries. We have had to give this government's proposal because we have not had the opportunity to take this kind of action in other legislation. Parliament has also required a government regulation on this issue, and this work has been launched immediately after we have read the report. Preparations are under way here and, of course, we must now also give a very careful explanation of why we believe that this is a matter for the whole country, not just for individual regions or regions. But this preparation is under way and, of course, we will try to complete it as soon as possible. We have a presentation of the President of the Republic, according to my information, on Monday, then we could bring this proposal into force, but this regulation is still working, and we will do so as soon as possible. Many Members have asked questions here about the way in which we can now, in these exceptional circumstances, secure the situation of small and other companies. I will share this concern with the representatives. This is a serious place not only for restaurant entrepreneurs or tourism entrepreneurs but for all entrepreneurs in Finland, and these measures have already been taken in good cooperation with Parliament. I would also like to thank the Committee on Finance for the speed and flexibility with which it was possible to increase the size of the amending budget, and we received more than one billion of these direct business subsidies. That was absolutely essential, and I thank Parliament for this. But it is quite clear that further action is needed. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy has worked hard on this and sought out the tools to guide support for entrepreneurs. Here, of course, we have the guarantees of Finnvera as well as the possibility for Business Finland to distribute subsidies and grants, ely centres, but now the municipalities have also been involved, and together with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has gone through how municipal business companies could help to get the money, especially for self-employed people. So it is not that we do not want to help, it is not even that we are not prepared to direct funding to this; it is also that we have the mechanisms and instruments to get help to entrepreneurs now, and this work is constantly being done. It is quite clear that more needs to be done, and I can assure you that the government is prepared to do so. Personally, I would not like to see the situation in this country that we saw during the recession of the 1990s, in which companies went bankrupt, human fates were sad, and many families also broke up as a result of the actions that were taken at the time and as a result of the bankruptcies we saw at the time. That is why I think it is extremely important that every effort is made now to ensure that this does not become a reality again in Finland, which means that the government is prepared to take action. I know that the Ministry of Finance has had an active dialogue with the tax authority on the use of these different tax instruments here. Unfortunately, our system seems to be rigid in this respect, just as it is in the social security field, but we are working tirelessly to overcome these administrative rigidities that exist in our country and to get help from businesses, workers and all citizens in this exceptional situation. So I believe that in this, too, the will is in common. We will need Parliament's help and support to carry these proposals through from now on, and I hope that good cooperation between all parties will continue in the management of this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u16	Mr President! First of all, we must thank the Prime Minister for his clear answer to many of the questions raised in this Chamber, and it is absolutely necessary to draw attention to the very special strength of cooperation that has been seen in these times between the Government and Parliament, particularly the Constitutional Committee. Only with such strong cooperation will we be able to ensure that the necessary measures are taken quickly and smoothly enough. I think yesterday was a good example of this: there the authorities were already ready to close Uusimaa, the Constitutional Committee was working hard all day to ensure that the closure was as fair as possible, and the Council of State was ready for flexible cooperation so that everything would go through and into force as it should, and then at midnight we really caught up with Uusimaa. I believe that this is a good example of how the rule of law can function quickly and effectively even in exceptional circumstances, and it is very important to stick to this. In the case of this restaurant closure, we have also looked for new ways of operating under exceptional circumstances. It has already paid tribute to the legal scholars for the fact that it was the Mara law that was introduced here and not to seek, for example, a ready-made passage that is not there, because there is no perfectly suitable place for such a lock there. That is why it was definitely better that this should be done. It was even possible to do so quite quickly and to ensure that the restaurants were caught in time. The question was asked earlier in this Chamber what was the consideration of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when drawing attention to this regional issue. Now, after the floor, I would like to speak with the next speaker who has been there in committee. This is because Article 4 of the Emergency Act provides that powers can only be exercised in such a way that they are necessary and proportionate, and special attention was paid to the fact that, for the time being, the situation is different across Finland. But it was noted here that it is precisely this anticipation that is absolutely essential: when we talk about a pandemic, we must be able to anticipate it, and that is why the Constitutional Committee has written this down so that the government can give it an opportunity to consider the best knowledge of experts, but yet, if necessary, the Government will be able to react quickly to expert knowledge and impose restrictions more flexibly than if it were to have an act that would automatically cover the whole country at the same time. After all, it has now been the decision of the Government that this should come into force at all times, because it is known that the epidemic is spreading rapidly, that it is now wise to act on time throughout the country. But it is this phase of demolition that is essential here. We do not yet know what the end of this epidemic looks like. There has never been such a pandemic in the world before, and that is why it is important to give the flexibility required by the 4th draft statement to that phase of demolition, because so far we cannot know what the end of the corona virus will look like in Finland. However, Finland is in many ways a different country than those countries in Asia where the pandemic seems to have already subsided. At the same time, it must of course be said that we cannot yet know exactly whether it has actually been eradicated from these countries. But for example, because of the few settlements, this place is quite different from South Korea or Singapore. And that is why it is important that we really try to apply these provisions of the Emergency Act so that flexibility can be found if necessary, so that we do not have to keep too hard a policy in place for too long. It has been well pointed out here that this is a very expensive and difficult business for entrepreneurs, and we all want to avoid the situation of the recession in the 1990s which not only drove entrepreneurs into distress but also led to cuts that seriously affected the history of an entire generation. This is known, for example, for the long-term studies that have been carried out since the late 1980s. It is known that the recession is truly worth avoiding, because its price is at its worst sore. It hurts entrepreneurs, it hurts young people, it hurts those who are already in the most difficult position. That is why it is important now to pay attention to the dismantling of this crisis, not only as to how the locks will end. We need to think about what kind of business we can do from here on out. The Prime Minister gave a very good presentation of the economic activities already known at this stage. It is quite remarkable that the Committee on Finance added EUR 800 million to its government's proposal to support businesses. Now, in this acute situation, it really seems that the Government, Parliament and the Committee on Finance have a very precise picture of the situation and the opportunity to act very quickly and flexibly in a very historic way. At the same time, we should plan what the end of this crisis will look like, how we will support entrepreneurs, Finns, those low-paid workers in the restaurant sector at the time of the end of this crisis, and how we will ensure that, now that the debt payment is postponed, taxes may now be deferred, then they will not be paid at once, because it is known that if the cost of the recession is too high and at a time, it will only prolong the recession. We must now really look forward to long-term, preferably parliamentary planning: what does Finland look like after the corona — not just in a year’s time, but in two, three, five or ten years’ time. And I really would like the parties to make proposals in this direction too, because it is now necessary to give it a long-term perspective. This is particularly highlighted on the economic side where many entrepreneurs have naturally thought about this five years from now, many investors will think about it five years from now, and at the same time we should now extend this political debate to the long-term agenda. But really, I think so far we have taken on a strong responsibility together, acted very quickly and seamlessly — not forgetting thoroughness — together, and this is something that needs to go on from now on, not just next week, but further into the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u17	Mr President! I would have thanked the Prime Minister here and, in fact, I thank the whole Government for its decisive action and for the necessary proposal and also for the clear message to be sent to the entrepreneurs in the sector and everyone else for the action to be taken in anticipation of the entry into force of this legislation. The debate surrounding this proposal has highlighted this demand for the possibility of regional differentiation, which is now being introduced in the amended proposal by a regulation. However, as a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I would like to highlight a few points about this report. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy expressly points out that the situation requires proactive measures and that regulation must be put into effect as soon as possible. 4. In its statement, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy raises this regional differentiation specifically in the context of the lifting of restrictions, if the situation of infection so permits, that is to say, that this regional aspect is a good tool when these are dismantled, but there is no reason to be too careful about this pre-emptive restriction, because it is clear from the picture that this disease is the one that requires decisive proactive action. I would have asked the Prime Minister here, although Mr Haatainen can also answer this question, or at least say hello, in connection with this dismantling. Now, of course, it is critical that the disease should be rejected and these decisions, such as this one, should also be prepared in time for the lifting of the restrictions. On the basis of researchers in different fields and international comparisons, it would appear that there is a need for extensive testing both for these carriers and for those who have already suffered the disease and for a very precise, possibly individual, monitoring and restriction. I believe that this testing capacity is constantly being increased, which is, of course, an excellent thing and necessary, but the full use of the information produced by this test may well require such monitoring and restriction of the individual image of the disease. There is a great deal to be said about health protection, the maintenance of the economy, the protection of privacy and the fundamental rights of people. And in some way, I would estimate that there may also be a need for legislation to be reviewed, for our legislation to enable this type of action at the moment, and, if so, how to ensure that there are adequate controls on those issues of our fundamental rights, our privacy? This is exactly what I would have asked about the level of preparation for the conditions and means of dismantling. That's what I'd be interested in. To the end, thank you again for your determined, good and very important presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u18	Mr President! School meals have been made to work in municipalities with different temporary solutions, and this is good. The Minister of Education, Mr Andersson, was still there a moment ago, and so was the Prime Minister. I would have liked to ask them: has the participation of first- and third-graders in school been followed during this first week, when critical areas were not limited to this law? Some municipalities have reported that as many as a dozen per cent more pupils have been in schools every day. I would also have asked about these critical areas: when would it be possible to limit this to the law, and how exactly are these first- and third-graders and those involved in early childhood education being monitored? Now that we are taking drastic measures elsewhere, close borders, diners, bars closed, these will become more watered down now if schools then start bulging again from these students.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u19	There was a clear link in the speech to this issue, but otherwise I hope that we will refrain from doing so under the heading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u20	Mr President! This is a very necessary proposal, for which I thank the government. I would also like to thank Minister Andersson and Prime Minister Marin, who have been very active here in Parliament in their discussions, and it is great that Minister Hatainen is also here today. This is a very exceptional presentation, and we are living in very exceptional times. Think about it, I could hardly imagine agreeing with the Christian Democrats and wanting to have the food stores in the sack. [Laughter] But this proposal is very necessary, and it is now of course particularly important for restaurant activities, but the whole business field suffers from similar problems. There are already problems with payment. It has been difficult for companies to pay all wage costs when there is no income. Similarly, there have been difficulties in managing the rentals of commercial premises. I am therefore pleased that in the Committee on Budgets we were able to jointly increase the amount of aid to entrepreneurs by around one billion. This is a good starting point for further action. This too will continue to cause pain in the business field, but in this situation and in order to prevent the spread of this disease, however, it is necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u21	Mr President! Contrary to what Mr Junnila thought, I am saddened that we are now going to have to take this decision to close the accommodation and nutrition shops. This morning, I got on a train from Riihimäki. Two policemen checked my pass on an almost empty train, and by the way they praised the fact that Finns have obeyed this closure of Uusimaa very well. These policemen were very decent and friendly, but I did feel sad that we were in this situation. Fortunately, this is not a normal state for us to drive down business, shut down restaurants, prevent people from moving. We are in exceptional circumstances, and we have a necessary reason for these, but I really hope that we will get over this very soon, and that we will also get the restaurants open and the citizens will be able to move freely across that border as well. I am also concerned that, when we know that there is still a significant alcohol problem in our country — even now almost 80,000 children live in a family where both parents are or one of them are having problems with alcohol consumption, they have a problem with alcohol — the result is that now more and more people are drinking in the homes, and when children are not even in school and in day-care centres the number of children has decreased, so too is the amount of such outside control and support for these children. I therefore find it irresponsible that even some traders have advertised — and I think some Members of Parliament are — these underpants, [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u22	Before the Minister, I will now give the floor to the representatives of Vall and Vartiainen, then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u23	Mr President! Indeed, we are at a serious point when food shops and accommodation establishments are ordered to be closed down. Of course, this must be done, but the next question is that, since the government orders companies to be closed down, how will the government then compensate for the losses? It is self-evident that the government must compensate for these losses, because this goes to the protection of property. I have watched a lot of what is being done in other countries. In Germany, for example, there are measures, generally throughout this micro-enterprise field, that if there is a small company, between 1 and 5 employees, the lump sum is EUR 9000 for a period of 3 months, if the entrepreneur is able to demonstrate that this corona crisis has had an impact on liquidity and cash flow, and if there are between 6 and 10 employees, the compensation amount is EUR 15000 for a period of 3 months. I am now being contacted, day and night in practice, on the social media side of entrepreneurs' questions, that where is the support you get when this is a bankruptcy now at the door and payments stack and so on. I'm interested in how the government thinks about doing this job. When can we get a clear online address, a website from which to direct these small entrepreneurs to the right? How is it ensured that the aid is received before bankruptcy, so that it does not go that far? For example, can you take a model from Germany, even if you ask how they have handled this if you do not want to find a model in Finland? Well, now the Prime Minister just told me that through the municipalities some model would come to the sole proprietors. So there is a need for support, not a loan. The majority of entrepreneurs do not want to over-indebtedness because of this crisis; financial support is now needed. And if this results in massive unemployment, its decline is about 10 billion a year. So we have to act proactively. It must be understood that billions will return to this now, but it will in practice be saving money in the future if this massive unemployment is eliminated. Then there's a lot of questions about how these collection companies, they're bloodthirsty enough to sharpen their nails so they can inherit. Is the government going to do something to the collection companies that they will not be able to attack from there, because then comes this cycle of succession, which is also difficult to break? Is there any way to slow down recovery firms in this situation? This is not just a threat to restaurants and accommodation companies, it is now a threat to the entire SME sector — there are barbers, masseuses, physiotherapists, gyms, small building companies, car repair shops, special shops, which means that this goes through the whole of society. This is quite promising, what we have just heard from the Prime Minister, but I would like to ask whether next week or when this support system will be crystal clear, that we parliamentarians will then be able to put a link to the entrepreneurs, that that support money will be available and that much of it will be possible to obtain, it would be good to get the money. Of course, there should be no support for box companies, but companies that were in operation, paid their taxes and other payments before this crisis must be adequately supported. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u24	Mr President! A few aspects of this change of law. Here some have mentioned that it will remain in force until the end of May. Perhaps it is worth reminding everyone, including the citizens, that the validity of that report until the end of May is purely theoretical. It is said that there should always be such a thing for legal reasons, but, in fact, this legislation is fully bound to exceptional circumstances. This cannot continue after its state of emergency and the relevant Government Decree adopted during this state of emergency cannot continue to apply after the state of emergency. So it is now up to the Government to decide when this will end — or, in fact, when it will start, and then when it will end, at what rate and how regionally. The second aspect is that when you think more about what is going on, you should not belittle this sale out, take away. I think that, at least in urban areas in today's world, many restaurants have already had the threshold to move on to this kind of activity, many have already moved on to it. Yesterday, actually, it was pretty nice when I got home really late, my wife was there, and she had ordered us a nice dinner from a crowned restaurant. This was the case even before this regulation was in force, but restaurants adapt. If you want to find positive features of this misery, which is now described here of course, then often different innovations are born and progressed during a state of emergency. I am optimistic that this transport reform of the previous government, the excellent central transport minister, may also be supporting such a take-away activity of the restaurant industry, which, over time, will create a new kind of business and potential for prosperity, so that perhaps something good can be seen in this misery. Finally, a word of comfort for all of you in the rest of Finland: Last night you have indeed been isolated, and you are not now going to New Zealand.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u25	Mr President! Thank you to Parliament for dealing with this matter quickly and to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for this report. We are going to go through this now, and we are now preparing for how we can now create the conditions for these companies to get over it with as little damage as possible. I myself have great concerns on behalf of these companies and share their concerns with representatives. This is not an easy decision to make and take forward. I have a heavy mind to present this law, but this epidemic situation requires it. The justification for this law also arises and has been made precisely from the point of view of preventing and slowing down this epidemic. Now we need to focus on what are the means, which is the toolbox to ensure that companies can survive. The Prime Minister has already described them in his previous speech. We now have this parliamentary support package, thanks to the extension of the package, which is now worth 1 billion, to various companies, and now it will be distributed through Business Finland and ely centres. There is also aid in the form of subsidies which can be used for these fixed costs, and it has rightly been called for direct aid to be provided for, so that rents can be paid, electricity paid so that it does not get into trouble. Then they asked where to get this information. There is a package of information on the website of the Ministry of Employment. It has been specifically provided with what is available for companies of different sizes, how to apply for these forms of aid. This has all had to be built on a very fast schedule. We are now going through this report carefully and we are going through these various possibilities in the government, which is as effective as possible in avoiding damage. Yesterday, the government also decided on a separate interest rate subsidy for sole entrepreneurs, who will now be distributed through municipalities. This has now been prepared on a fast schedule in cooperation with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities — thanks also to the Association of Local and Regional Authorities for being helpful in this. With a few city mayors and mayors, I was already late this evening, and there were messages that we are ready to make use of the apparat in this distribution of this support. And I believe that it will also give us this information channel very quickly. Information already exists on the municipalities' websites, and it is updated on what our decisions allow to share. I think it is very important and I am rushing that these decisions should be prepared quickly and in a timely manner, because this really does not have time for paper-spinning, but must be in place. How these systems of ours quickly turn out to be the distribution of these subsidies has been a challenge, but we have different routes, including through municipalities, we can do this in the best possible way within the existing framework. We will do all we can to achieve this, and I am happy to continue working with Parliament on all ideas and ideas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u26	Mr President! The speed has been high in Parliament these weeks, and the scales have been massive. But this has been extremely justified, and for that I thank the government for taking these necessary steps quickly and also for being able to make tough decisions, such as the closure of restaurants in this debate. The tourism and restaurant sector is now suffering at the forefront and has, in fact, been suffering at the forefront from the effects of these exceptional circumstances. And especially in Uusimaa, which is still hit by this strong closure of the province, these effects have been harsh and severe, because the industry here is very service-intensive. Currently, there are up to 145,000 people in Uusimaa on lay-offs. It is a really large number of people who are currently dealing with various income-related challenges at home. Mr President! On this point, I would like to pay particular attention to the daily lives of people with low pay. It is quite clear that it is important to focus on the concerns of entrepreneurs and this closure of restaurants will have a significant impact on the everyday lives of entrepreneurs, but so will the daily lives of those who work in these restaurants. In this respect, I hope, now that Mr Haatainen is here too, that we will also be able, under these exceptional circumstances, to pay particular attention to the rules of the labour market. At the moment, when companies are forced to take decisions at a fast pace — there are layoffs, then there are different contracts in the workplace — and when there are many young people working in the restaurant sector, I am concerned about how these young people are aware of the rules of working life — even under normal conditions, but especially in these exceptional circumstances — i.e. what are their rights as well. When I have also received a lot of inquiries from young people about whether they are obliged to start summer holidays during this period or to give up duty schedules, I hope that we will also avoid, under these exceptional circumstances, not taking account of the rights and situation of all people. I hope that there will also be clear instructions from the ministry. Now that the social partners have agreed on a rescue package for businesses and jobs, then, if the Minister is still here for a while, I would ask: in what way now that we have agreed to speed up lay-offs and also to improve unemployment security, these matters have been received there on the ground, and has there been clear guidance and communication?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u27	Mr President! A number of speakers have discussed how entrepreneurs, including workers, can cope with the various forms of payment that they are now faced with when the industry and incomes are falling short. It is certainly most appropriate here for the tax authorities to compromise, for the enforcement authorities to compromise and for the collection agencies to control themselves now, to which reference has already been made. The representative, Mr Tanus, also wondered whether he should receive a rent payment because the rent is a fixed expense for many, practically everyone, restaurant owners, bar keepers and others who may not have that property owned by them. In this respect, there is a good example of Spain, where there is a large-scale situation — including in the hairdressers I have heard it about — that when many hairdressers have lost their customers, the landlord has met in such a way that the rent is halved during this period. So the risk is borne by the entrepreneur — half of the rent must be paid, but only half — but the landlord also genuinely accepts and accepts this risk as well. I think that this is a fine example of solidarity in that this burden is being borne together, and it is not the case that landlords stick to their rights until the end and then despoil entrepreneurs in this case in an unreasonable way. This could also be an opportunity for the Government to even come out on this issue, that we genuinely call for this burden to be shared together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u28	Mr President! The legal closure of restaurants is necessary. It sounds like a dramatic action, and it will give us all a lot of feedback from entrepreneurs. In reality, however, the impact of this measure on turnover is limited because the majority of restaurants are already closed. They are partly closed because entrepreneurs are self-responsible in the event of epidemics. However, they are mainly closed because the customers have disappeared. People follow recommendations and, above all, common sense. The reverse is that even if restaurants are allowed to open their doors again at some point, the situation will not return to normal for a long time, possibly not for years. Such epidemics come in several waves, and even after restrictive measures have brought the situation under control, the danger of a new epidemic remains lurking over Finland and the whole world. It is likely that it will only be possible to get the vaccine on the market to normalise the situation, i.e. for corona. It is unlikely that interest will be the last or even the worst pandemic if mobility is not restricted by permanent measures. This is a unique situation, and no one can reliably predict its overall effects. It is possible that it will change people's social behaviour and consumption habits permanently or for at least years. This may not be a bad thing in all respects, but it may lead to drastic changes in the structure of the economy, especially in the services sector. This should also be taken into account when planning the necessary support measures. It may not be enough to keep companies above the acute crisis if the former customer numbers do not return after that. To some extent, in the dark clouds, I see gold edges similar to those of Congressman Vartiainen. It is always the kind of innovation and the kind of new work that is hard to foresee. Mr President! This crisis has highlighted weaknesses in globalisation, such as long and vulnerable production chains. I hope that lessons will be learned from this. The short-sightedness of the labour market debate has also become clear. It is not a long time in weeks when there was a screaming labour shortage in the restaurant industry, and now we are here. Finally, I call on colleagues and all the citizens whose income has not been affected by this crisis to support it in their nearby restaurant by applying for food. This is what I do myself. In particular, entrepreneurs who pay their taxes conscientiously and take care of all their other obligations must be supported. It should not be the case that this crisis will bring down healthy businesses and leave the sledgehammers behind. And remember also to maintain a sense of proportion. Not all services are contact-intensive, but they can be used without any concern. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u29	Mr. Speaker! There is a very exceptional government proposal on the table, which has been carried through our parliamentary institution at a very exceptional rate. This legislative proposal and the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also relate to this corona crisis, which has hit the whole world and also Finland, and we have been discussing this all week — we are also working on weekends, here we are dealing with these proposals, which, above all, are needed to protect human health and gradually also to avoid financial damage. This is a law that is now being adopted, a fixed-term law, and we are closing down our customers' restaurants and various liquor shops, and this is a very drastic step. This will also be a very destructive measure for this industry. This is a very serious interference in the protection of property and freedom of business protected by the Constitution. But, as all colleagues have said today, this is an absolutely necessary measure, because food restaurants and nightclubs are gathering large numbers of people and the epidemic is such that it does not look at what is going on, but it is spreading there when there are a lot of people together, and it is really logical that restaurants should be closed in such a situation. Well, as has been said here, the Minister of Labour, Mr Haatainen, has just made a very good speech about it, by all means, the government of the country and also this whole parliament, the parties in the government and the opposition, all of them, are now trying to limit the damage that the economy is causing by the fact that the normal life in Finland is being severely restricted at the moment. The aim of this whole house is certainly not to see any healthy Finnish company fall into this situation, that is to say to save those companies whose business is otherwise healthy, but then restricting people's mobility and restricting people's lives to the bottom of the business, and this week we have dealt with a billion-dollar support package for Finnish companies. I would also like to say that the billion will probably not be enough, but we will also have to apply for other means of support. President! I don't want to make a tautological speech. I would like to add a few new points of view to this debate, which I do not think has yet come up. First of all, I would like to say here too that this week and this transition to exceptional circumstances have also demonstrated the strength of the Finnish rule of law and Finnish parliamentaryism in that this system of control of our constitution works. Although control through the Constitutional Committee is a freak in the world, just as Finland may be a freak, it seems that our Constitutional Committee freak is working. So we've been able to handle things quickly, reasonably quickly. I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, including the Economic Committee and all the Members of Parliament, for having worked day and night. But, in particular, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like to thank them for having dealt quickly — and that has not been any rubber stamping. In the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there have been constitutional irregularities and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has reacted to them. In other words, under pressure, the epidemic, under exceptional circumstances, our Constitutional Committee also works and I think it shows that we do not need any new court or other new system for monitoring our constitutionality. But then, Mr President, I would like to say that I believe that this week has also shown that, especially with regard to this restaurant issue, our Act on communicable diseases and the Emergency Act are not up to date. When you think of the North: it is crazy that there is no such authority as the CDD that people's gatherings, concerts and restaurants, large diners, are not able to close directly under the Act on Disease Control, but that such a fixed-term express law is required. It tells us that unfortunately it's not right. I have to admit, Mr President, that these legal tricks with yesterday's Emergency Act and the fact that we had to hold many plenary sessions and there were some failures in the drafting of the law did not say that we had our emergency law in place either. In other words, when this crisis is overcome, I think it is essential that both the Act on communicable diseases and the Act on Preparedness be reformed. But then, President, there is a big issue on the ground which the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has also stated in its report — I read the quote: ‘On the basis of the report received by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, in any event, only very small part-financing isreplaced in exceptional circumstances such as those at issue. “ In other words, there is a lot of talk about the fact that when a political decision is taken to close down the restaurants by the authorities, whether the entrepreneurs will then receive compensation from the insurance company, and it seems that many suspension insurance policies, which have been granted by insurance companies, are very vague and that they are made in such a way that they do not necessarily make any compensation. Well, insurance is a private contract. I'm a big market economy fan. I am not in favour of introducing freedom of contract in this Chamber to collude and in some way to break it, but I do think it is a very strange and special situation if it now turns out that the entrepreneurs who have paid the suspension insurance will then receive nothing from the insurance company, and I would encourage in this debate, too, that the associations of restaurant entrepreneurs and all entrepreneurs should take to the insurance board, for example, for the purpose of interpreting these suspension insurance conditions, that is, if such an exemption law closes the restaurants, then nothing can be obtained from the suspension insurance. President! I agree with Mr Kiljunen that I am appealing here to the private sector, I am appealing to banks, I am appealing to insurance companies, I am appealing to landlords that, in the event of this sudden illness, responsibility should also be borne in the private sector by those who have market power and who have money, i.e. the banks would now be flexible, the big landlords would now be flexible, and the insurance companies would also consider in a contractual relationship how they would pay compensation to those entrepreneurs who have taken out insurance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u30	Mr President! In his previous speech, Mr Halla-aho made a good point about the fact that many restaurant entrepreneurs have already responded, either because of their obligation or because of their lack of customers, to this situation. A good example: yesterday, when I left here after the sitting sometime around ten o’clock in the evening and went to pick-up food, I was the only customer and there was only a police car and a security car on the way. But this bill is very important, especially for the rest of Finland, where the situation is not yet this way. Finnish Entrepreneurs surveyed their member companies yesterday, and it says that 23 per cent of the member companies are already in crisis. Earlier, Mr Kiljunen spoke about rentals in commercial apartments, and there is also such a speciality that these contracts are often concluded for three months, and now that in practice a large number of entrepreneurs have lost their income and do not necessarily have the opportunity to meet their obligations, there is a need for help. According to the law, the normal notice period is a month, but many contracts are indeed three months. I do not know how to resolve this, but I hope that the government will find ways of making it possible to examine these leases and their duration in such a situation. I don't think it would be desirable for companies to go bankrupt because of the rent in a business apartment. Or consider some other possibilities of support. One model is the one mentioned by Mr Vallin. He mentioned Germany, and there is such a pay subsidy model in place, the same is true in Great Britain and Denmark. I also left the amending budget initiative No. 4 out of a slightly similar model. I hope that these will be examined and that the proposals will be brought to the Committee on Budgets on a timely basis. True, Finns support all good performances that support small and medium-sized enterprises in this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u31	Mr President! Thank you for a good conversation. Since Mr Haatainen is also here, I would have liked to ask a question which was raised by Mr Harjanne and Mr Räsänen, among others, and yesterday by Mr Vestman. What kind of time window can we now expect for restaurant entrepreneurs and other entrepreneurs: how long should Finland be kept closed or at least restricted as we are now, with our current operating model? Germany has announced yesterday that it is obviously moving from slowing down the virus to stopping the virus, and the Norwegian Government has also announced this change to the strategy this week. Germany is obviously increasing the test capacity very strongly, with 200,000 tests per day at the end of April, and this in Finland would mean 13,000 tests per day if it were proportional to the population. In the economic sense, this is certainly much better for restaurant entrepreneurs too, because if you know where the virus moves, what the transmission chains are, you can isolate them, you can also move more freely. As Mr Harjanne pointed out earlier, this would probably also require changes, including legislative changes to the possible use of identification data, and this is a reflection that is worth considering now, because in both cases we are restricting fundamental human rights in a very fundamental way in this situation, when many people have to stay at home, children cannot go to school and entrepreneurs cannot open their doors. If there is such a technological way that we can both overcome the virus and then a little more freely open up the functions of society, then this kind of thing should go through quickly, before the virus has progressed further in Finland as well. It is now possible that, if we act quickly, we may be able to stop the virus from progressing in some areas, and if we then have such means that we can better identify the transmission chains with testing and other measures, then we may be able to live more quickly again in normal life. Of course, this situation in Uusimaa is quite critical, because here we must not allow this virus epidemic to proceed. This is not just about the economy. If this other type of strategy is achieved, which is now being pursued by Norway and Germany and many other countries, it will also save lives. Now it is critical in Finland too very quickly to make the policies and decisions that we are trying to make.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u32	If you don't mind, I will give the Minister the floor after the fourth speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u33	Mr President! Nutritionists have been waiting for this decision to shut down restaurants and restaurants by the government. It is a good thing that this is coming so quickly and we will be sitting in plenary on Saturday. Indeed, many of the restaurant owners from that Kainuu have already sent a message last week that you should now shut down the restaurants by the government because they do not have customers in the restaurants. Now they are free of this torment — and they have already closed the restaurants. Mr President! I would also like to point out that yesterday, when the borders of Uusimaa were closed, I have received messages from those provinces and also from my own municipality in Kuhmo that many people have come to the cottage now. But I would also like to point out here that there is no reason to worry if people have come to the cottages when they stay in their own circles, so to speak. Then this disease would not spread any further. I also said, Mr President, yesterday in this Chamber, that when no cases of infectious disease have yet been detected in Kainuu, fortunately, would it be appropriate to close the Kainuu district borders? But the coming week will show it, as we've seen. Looking back a week, the situation was much easier, and now it is already challenging — what will it be in a week?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u34	The President is still the President, not the President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u35	Mr President! Indeed, these take-aways can still be sold from restaurants, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that the sale of the drink will continue to be allowed. Of course, alcoholic beverages sold from restaurants are only part of the alcohol that consumers get in their hands with, but I hope that Minister Haatainen, together with the government, will pay serious attention to the fact that when this time is distressing and depressing for many Finns, it is also possible that alcohol problems will get worse. My particular concern is for those children who are home with their parents who may have substance abuse problems. I hope that the government will pay particular attention to this. Then there is another matter to which I would also like to ask the Minister for an answer. Now that different ways of supporting these companies, restaurants, such as various forms of support, are being supported, as is required by the effort we are discussing here, questions and concerns have arisen from organisations, foundations and associations that, for example, these subsidies from Business Finland and Finnvera do not extend to them. However, there are many players there who now have to lay off and lay off, at worst the organisations are going bankrupt. So how will the government ensure that these various support measures could also apply to foundations, associations and organisations? Then there's the third thing. Now that in many ways Finland is being closed down and restaurants are closing down, I just received a message from a special shop owner who operates in a shopping mall that why not quickly go to the shopping centers to close down, because there are also these special shops in it. They are forced to keep their movements open, and trade is not actually going to work. Then, of course, there is the problem that people may still flock there in vain in shopping malls, and they are increasing this epidemic and the risk of infection. So does the government have any intention of limiting this trade to essential food purchases and grocery sales? And then there's the fourth thing. Here Mr Holopainen spoke very well, and I would also like to ask whether the government intends to change its strategy in the fight against this epidemic virus from this policy of obstruction to repression. In my opinion, we are not yet at the point where we need to raise our hands and surrender in front of this virus, but precisely with this massive testing and tracing of infections and also with the quarantine measures of those who have been exposed, we would be able to contain and suppress this epidemic, especially in the region of Uusimaa. Especially in those regions where there are only a few cases, this could be quickly influenced. I would now like to ask Minister Hatainen: are you going to change the strategy, as Norway, for example, has done and also Germany?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u36	Mr President! As a member of the Constitutional Committee for one parliamentary term, I am very pleased that the Constitutional Committee is still in power and even in this exceptional situation, in these exceptional circumstances, it has been felt necessary for restaurant entrepreneurs to receive reasonable compensation for having to shut down their restaurants from customers. Of course, it is clear that very many other entrepreneurs suffer losses and do not receive compensation. If you do, you might even say that restaurant entrepreneurs are even better placed to deal with, for example, housing companies, whose activities are not banned, who have similar customer losses and who do not even receive reasonable compensation, whatever that is — that is the real problem of the government. So the situation is very problematic. There are a lot of hotel entrepreneurs who do not have food service activities, and they have certainly had just as long and more or less as strong this customer loss. These compensation issues are in a very problematic area when there are exceptional circumstances. All you can hope for is wisdom in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u37	Mr President! Indeed, not only the food industry, but also the tourist industry, are at stake here. I would like to thank the Minister for being here today, and I hope that these support measures, which he has pointed out, have been taken up by the government, and that the self-employed' interest subsidies will also make real progress quickly. This report, as has also been pointed out in this debate, is that in many cases the fixed costs of entrepreneurs, those engaged in business, are actually going to continue, not just those rental costs, but also those of electricity, water, waste management, insurance premiums, various operating licence fees and repayments of loans, etc. I would like to ask the Minister: Have you had any discussions, and could you from the Government's side, from the Ministry, really strongly appeal to the operators that they, for their part, would accept that the landlords would give it a helping hand to moderate the rent, perhaps half the rent or possibly rent-free for months? But then, could it be that other recipients are also being appealed to: electricity, water, waste management operators? What is the reason why, when there are exceptional circumstances, a state of emergency, there cannot be a decision to reduce or postpone these payments as much as possible? Similarly with regard to banks: when many of us have had months of shortening leave for years, would it not be good to appeal to the banks to do so for their part? Then I would like to ask about the operating licence fees: when they are often paid specifically to society, could it be thought that such licence fees would also be deferred or, under exceptional circumstances, totally exempted from them and returned to payments and then to collecting them at a later stage? For insurance premiums: These suspension insurance policies were also raised here. I would really like the Government to be able to use its authority here too to appeal to these insurance companies, because many insurance companies today are making a very good profit, the plus accounts are quite large. However, we have entrepreneurs who, not only for years, have paid insurance premiums for many decades and may never have received compensation there. When many have actually paid this suspension insurance for a very long time, it would be reasonable, especially in this way under exceptional circumstances, for insurance companies to actually replace the suspension insurance. So could such an appeal be made there as well? Then what I'd like to raise up is the collection agencies. Have you considered whether there could be any kind of regulation or other, so that the collection agencies, which are actually waiting there — and some of these operators will also receive very large bonuses depending on how much they can collect — could now also, as it were, be shut down on the side? Here I would also like to raise the enforcement authorities, which are the authorities that operate. Could the government consider, or have you possibly considered that, in this exceptional situation, the enforcement authorities would also freeze their activities? For example, there are tax arrears that have gone into enforcement, possibly temporary work has already been done before. And what does this situation bring? Tax arrears have gone to the enforcement authorities, and despite the state of emergency, the enforcement authorities have announced, as I received the message the last day before yesterday, that this and so has been the case with the enforcement authority, that there is no more than a few weeks of grace and progress in matters. Could there be action in these sectors too, and has the government perhaps already considered action in relation to these sectors? Then I would also like, for my part, to appeal to the Minister for this aggressive testing. We have been given the impression that it is not possible to stop the virus epidemic, that it is only possible to restrict it, but that is not the case. In many countries, stopping has been successful, and many neighbouring countries in Europe have taken this aggressive testing and particularly the stopping of coronavirus infection as a top priority. Indeed, as has been added in Germany, it would mean 13000 tests per day or per person in Finland, not just a thousand or two or three thousand. I think that this is not just a question for health care providers or a health care perspective, but, for example, for entrepreneurs now. For example, we in the nutrition industry have had dozens, hundreds, maybe thousands of contacts here in Uusimaa, and the risk or probability of having received the corona virus is quite high in many places. Now, especially when things are slowing down and so, I would see that it is very important for operators to be tested at a very low threshold, and this testing because they can then also be quarantined or isolated so that they do not carry the virus forward. On this point, I would like to ask the Minister: have you had a debate on this, just as Mr Räsänen has pointed out, a change of direction? For my part, I would like to appeal to the government to debate and to go on as a nation specifically to stamp out this epidemic and not just to limit it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u38	Again, this debate is somewhat removed from this actual title, even though it is related. Let us try to stick to this issue of accommodation and nutrition. — Mr Holopainen, then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u39	Mr President! Indeed, the very central question for restaurant entrepreneurs is how long this Finnish strategy will keep the doors closed. As Mr Kettunen mentioned here, would it be relevant to close down another province where the epidemic may not have progressed or has progressed in such a way that it can be quickly suppressed? This is the kind of thinking that's really relevant. Then, as Mr Räsänen said, with regard to Uusimaa, the situation is a little different, but we should definitely not put on gloves. If there were to be such a lockdown restriction to suppress the epidemic, then perhaps it would be a way of having an even tighter lock-out for two weeks, perhaps day-care centres and schools would not be open at all. For two weeks there would be a very close home, as in many other European countries, and then it would be possible to return to tracking this epidemic. All these options need to be carefully and quickly reviewed. If this were to be achieved, this would probably be an economically and humanly better solution. I hope for urgent reflections and an open debate with Parliament. This is a common cause for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u40	Mr President! Perhaps, at the end of the day, I saw this matter in itself and this past week in the whole of Parliament: First of all, I would like to add my voice to the many thanks that have been expressed to the government here for its prompt action and for bringing forward these proposals. But I would particularly like to point out that Parliament has been able to act and take these decisions forward very quickly. This has been an exceptional week if we look at what we have on the table, and the restriction on the movement of the Emergency Act has been dealt with twice, the second time yesterday in a few hours has been passed here, and then the law on this restaurant activity, the regulations relating to the duty to work. I must say that Parliament has shown that there is, on the one hand, room for manoeuvre here to safeguard the terms of the constitution of parliamentarianism, but, on the other hand, to move forward quickly. It is also thanks to all the parties, especially the opposition, because anyone here would have got these things stuck if they wanted to. But I believe that this will send a message to the entire nation that now everything that can be done together is being done here. And then to this matter. This will hit very hard on restaurant entrepreneurs and also on workers who are already low-paid. That means there are little buffers there to face this situation. That is why it is extremely important that we do not leave them alone, not entrepreneurs or employees, but that we do everything we can to help them out of this. This is an important message. Mr President! I noticed that Mayor Vapaavuori said in an interview with Yle that there have still been restaurants in Helsinki that are open. Of course, it is very regrettable that there are those who have not heard this. It brings unfair competitive advantage and also creates risk. Now the government is urgently preparing this regulation to bring this law into force, but I think it is important for the government to monitor this situation. And I would ask the Minister when there is a possibility that, if this activity continues, then, of course, under Article 58 of the Act on Disease Control, the open doors will have the opportunity to intervene where the disease situation is severe, if necessary. I would like this tool to be kept in the bag, but the most important thing now is to bring this law into force as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u41	Mr President! I thank Parliament for these constructive, good speeches. There's a lot of ideas here for further work. I am not going to repeat them now, but I am going to focus on this legislation on restaurants, which also raised concerns about workers, and I am also very concerned about them. The restaurant sector is low-paid and there is particular concern that, in the event of layoffs and unemployment, these payment systems will then function properly. The STM is responsible for it and works with it. STM is preparing urgent legislative changes. There will also be support for the lay-off person in such a way that the lay-off person will receive unemployment benefit without any time limit. This is now 5 days, which means that in the future the unemployment benefit will come from the first day. Similarly, those with low work experience can also benefit from unemployment benefit, as the working condition is now reduced to 13 weeks. There are many young people there who do not have enough time to work. It's 26 weeks now, so it'll change for 13 weeks. And now there is also going to be an obligation to take back the employer, that is to say it will rise to nine months, which means that during that time you have to take back, if this goes, and hopefully you will miss, in a few months — then you have to take back, which is also in support of the employee. Then there are many young people here — Mr Heinäluoma raised young people — there are many students: there are around 83,000 polytechnic students and 86,000 university students, this is a large number of students who study and have worked. And now a reform is coming, according to which, if you are laid off on 16 March or after that, your studies will no longer affect your laid-off unemployment benefit — on what day, yesterday or the day before yesterday, this is what I presented here, it is already going to be a mess — in practice, during lay-off, you will be allowed to continue your studies without losing your unemployment benefit. This is a big deal now for those who have built their livelihoods here. For sole entrepreneurs, a support model has now been prepared, which means that the support will be applied for through municipalities, i.e. it will be shared by municipalities. The funding for this has been taken from the financial contribution through the budget, i.e. EUR 100 million will be allocated to it through the State, it will be allocated by the State through municipalities, and it will be distributed through municipalities. This is now agreed in cooperation with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. Then, while there is certain uncertainty as to what these subsidies can be used for, such as Business Finland and Ely Centres: It has had its own system for normal conditions, but it has now been modified, made more flexible so that it can also be partly used to compensate for wage costs. So we create such apparats, which can then be used for salary costs, for those fixed expenses to use these instruments, these forms of financing, i.e. edited in such a way as to make it existing. After all, the Parliament has already adopted this law, which I have presented, that is to say, those laid off there will now be more easily informed of the fact that they are entitled to unemployment benefit, which means that in practice the TE Offices will no longer examine these conditions, but that when they register for lay-off, it will then go quickly without further clarification, so that information on lay-off is sufficient, the conditions for working will not be clarified. It will certainly speed up this process. Then they asked what the time window of this law is now. This is now coming through this window of time, but of course we are monitoring this situation all the time, and that is where we rely on the knowledge of the THL, on national data. The government is also constantly receiving information and is constantly monitoring and analysing the impact of measures taken in other countries. The strategy that has been chosen, the government decides in a unified way, it is not in the decision-making process of the Minister for Labour, but, of course, the government as a whole bases its views on how health authorities, epidemiology and THL form the basis of this strategy for us under the leadership of the STM. Tests. It is not my area, but Mr Kiuru has said here that tests have now been greatly increased — but this is the remit of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health — and it will also, of course, follow up on how this epidemic is going. But with these words, thank Parliament for its good and rapid and responsible cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-28-ps-41.u42	Mr President! Thank you, ministers, for still being here. I hear we've been talking about things here for a very long time yesterday. When I wasn't there, I'd like to ask you a few more questions. The first concerns the fact that employers are currently advising employees whether to come to work or not. For example, the Federation of K-retailers has sent all employees of the K-store such instructions, which provide different examples of why you do not come to work or come to work. And here is one such example that if an employee is exposed to corona and the question is whether he will come to work, then the advice is that yes, if he is asymptomatic, and if he is ill, he will not come to work. In all these other examples, there are clear guidelines, and these traders themselves are not complying with this precautionary principle. Although they play such an important role as on the food supply side handing out food to customers, the employee is still directed to work if he has been exposed to the corona virus. And, for example, if family members are in quarantine at home, nevertheless, these instructions advise you to come to work if you are not symptomatic. This is quite incomprehensible that such irresponsibility is practised in certain shops. I ask the ministers: how can you intervene in this matter? And another important issue is when entrepreneurs are currently, for example, customers in a shopping centre with a business space, concerned that there are no designated shopping centers closed and other such things — sports facilities or playgrounds — that are often in the property owned by pension companies, and they are not getting the rent cut off. Many of them still keep that business going. This has become a number of calls for each of us, and I ask the government: at what point will you also order the closure of these other sites where people can clearly be exposed to this virus? This is not only because of this own exposure, but also because of the legal protection of those entrepreneurs, because then the liability for their rent ends. I have not received an answer to this — I have been asking this question for a week and a half now — and I hope that the ministers will be able to open up some of the plans you have here to move forward on this matter. - Thank you.
