ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u1	Before going into the order of business, a few press releases. The Council of Presidents recommends that representatives follow the following approaches: First of all, the registration of the sitting will begin 15 minutes before the beginning of the sitting, when it will be possible to enter and leave the Chamber without congestion. This practice has already been initiated in part of this session, and the majority of representatives have already made themselves known in the last 15 minutes. Secondly, by way of exception from now on, speeches in plenary will always be made at their own place, including the presentations made by the committees. Thirdly, during Question Time, the Ministry has been reorganized in order to establish security intervals so that the members of the Government have seats both in the traditional cabinet and here on the side of the official box. Fourthly, for Question Time, a recommendation has been made to the parliamentary groups and representatives to select them in advance so that there are only about a quarter of the representatives in the Chamber and the other representatives will follow the Question Hours after registering outside the Chamber. That is why there are only about 50 representatives in Question Time today. Of course, this is not an absolute requirement. The constitutional rights of the representatives are not limited, but this is the Bureau's wish that we voluntarily seek ways of increasing the fluency and reducing the risk of infection in this House. And fifthly, in the case of the other plenary sessions, the recommendation is that the House should be the closest to those waiting to speak. Naturally, at the decision-making stage, we are all here. These recommendations are valid for the time being, and I hope that as soon as possible we will be able to dismantle them and return to normal procedures.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u2	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u3	Congressman Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u4	Mr President! The Corona virus epidemic creates huge and, at worst, insurmountable financial difficulties for entrepreneurs. If an entrepreneur runs out of income, it also ends with the employees of the company. Unfortunately, extensive layoffs have already been imposed. A Finnish entrepreneur is a fighter who does not lay off his evil but wants everyone to succeed. Now entrepreneurs need help to get bread on the table for themselves and their employees. Many companies now in crisis will be very profitable again after the crisis. It would therefore be unreasonable to bankrupt them. The Finns Party therefore want a comprehensive support package for Finnish companies in difficulty. Mr Government, we must together save small Finnish entrepreneurs and jobs. What measures is the government now taking to help entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u5	Mr President! This is a very important question, Mr President. We know that this current situation, the corona virus, its health effects and the effects that we are seeing in society now, after the adoption of the Emergency Act, also affect our economy, affect the conditions under which companies operate, workers, professionals, and our society in general, also from an economic point of view. The government is committed to making every effort to minimise the damage caused by this situation. We cannot promise that there will be no damage, but we are trying to minimise the damage to Finnish companies, entrepreneurs, professionals, employees, ordinary Finnish people. We're together today with the five of us, we're going over this whole thing. The labour market organisations have made their own proposals, and today we are going to go over this whole with the government parties and we will also be coming forward tomorrow with guidelines on how we can influence this economic aspect. But it is quite clear that this also has an economic impact on society and people's lives in many ways, and we are facing a serious crisis here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u6	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. Today, Question Time is purely about the corona epidemic and its consequences.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u7	Mr President! This is going to be an expensive drink for the whole world. It's going nowhere. True Finns believe, however, that more must be done in a preventive way than the government has proposed. Entrepreneurs do not get much out of the relaxation of the conditions of the payment system if there is absolutely no money. Entrepreneurs must be offered zero interest-rate loans and repayment-free payments throughout the crisis. In addition, tax relief must be provided immediately. Entrepreneurs must be better placed to benefit from unemployment benefits. These are examples. Good government, people are in a lot of trouble. In families, at worst, both parents are laid off. Entrepreneurs have to put a note on the hatch. I would like to emphasise once again that aid is needed now and not only after a huge paper war. That is why I ask: what help do you give to the daily lives of laid-off people and families where incomes collapse?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u8	Mr President! The representative draws attention to the very central issue of this unfortunate situation. I can guarantee that this government will do everything in its power, that this government will do everything in its power to deal with this crisis in a health-friendly manner, and that this will also be dealt with financially. This means that we will do everything in our power to ensure that Finnish entrepreneurs succeed and succeed in the future. And then it also calls for us to be able to maintain all the jobs that are now at risk and at risk, so of course — and I believe that the whole of Parliament is going to leave it — it is important, in this difficult situation, to bring the layoffs into force quickly in those companies that are now taking this attack. The government is taking action to try to make things easier for companies. The change in the tax system that we told you about in the early part of the week is cheaper than the similar change in Sweden. So the government is taking this very seriously, and tomorrow, as the Prime Minister said, we will be reporting on the new economic package that we have achieved this week.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u9	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u10	Mr President! Our really important task is to protect those who are in the highest risk group in terms of infectious disease. Thank you all the professionals at this point, but of course we all have a responsibility. Today, the government has given instructions to the elderly and their loved ones, and now, of course, we must ensure that everyone is informed about the instructions. There is a need to take the guidelines for reducing close contact and preventing the spread of infectious disease seriously. But many older people need the help of another person in their everyday lives. Not all elderly people have relatives or friends who can help you find food or at a pharmacy. How can we make sure that every aged person gets the help he needs home? Has care been taken to ensure that the municipalities are sure to know where the elderly and other people who need help at home, such as the disabled, are? We believe that the services of companies and third sector operators should be used to guarantee this assistance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u13	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Risikko: excellent ideas and exactly what is being done. The question is that this strong guidance as a code of conduct, that it is now important to avoid contact with people over 70, is the most crucial part of this epidemic. We must all be involved in the projects to reduce contacts, but, especially for those at risk, there should be little contact. In this regard, we come to the problem of how the affairs of many people who still live alone but do not need home service are handled. It is precisely these ideas that Mr Risiko had that we will be presenting in concrete terms tomorrow. We are going to have a press conference, and the idea is that it is not only for the operators, producers and local authorities in the sector, but also for the general public to know what rights could be created for them in this situation. Many people do not have help from their neighbors, and these good ideas must be put into practice so that the municipality ultimately does.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u14	Mr President! We have one more suggestion. I am sure there will be more tomorrow, but here is one: the proposal of the Coalition Party is that the elderly who are protected from the disease and other people who need help at home should be supported by a service voucher that would be able to obtain home delivery services for medicines and food and other necessary supplies, for example. Municipalities would issue a bill to older people who would otherwise not have access to assistance. I know we have the laws in place, but now we need a little bit of a push from the government, too. I hope this is in your prescription book and in your choice of means. What do you think of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u15	Mr President! First of all, the whole idea of how we can serve more at home than 70 years of age during this difficult period is a central question. Many may need that help just because there are no younger generations who would run a shopping bag into the doorpost, from which it would be a good door to open and take these shopping safely. In this regard, creative solutions are now needed. When this package of preparedness laws today takes its final form by adopting the last regulation on social welfare and health care, then we will have the opportunity to reorganise municipal work in social and health care. First of all, we are now introducing all the people who we need from the point of view of social services to do this important work, so that no one over 70 years of age will have to endure this difficult time alone. As far as home care is concerned, much more people must be employed there so that this risk of infection is reduced. So the fewer people you see, the less people you see.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u16	Mr. Speaker! This is quite right in the opinion of the Finns, that Parliament is now setting an example and that some of the MPs are there in their offices to follow this plenary session, i.e. to keep their distance here as well. Hopefully, the government will then consistently now also manage these quarantine operations, because the health of Finns is the most important thing for Finns. However, the main issue raised this sector of the economy, and I too would like to ask about the financial side, because now this plight of small entrepreneurs is real, when we do not know how long this situation will continue. Sweden has acted in such a way as to freeze VAT payments, i.e. VAT can only be paid late and VAT payments paid at the beginning of the year have also been refunded. Could the government also consider this measure for small entrepreneurs in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u17	Mr President! We have worked this out too, Mr President. Unfortunately, the tax systems in Finland and Sweden are somewhat different, and when the situation is very rapid — we only have days to get things done — we are trying to do what we can quickly do through the existing laws in Parliament with the existing systems, so that is why we have announced this big EUR 5 billion package, which is actually a large part of taxes. In fact, that change in our tax system is such that three months can postpone the payment of the tax and, overall, within two years, then take care of it and pay it in instalments. In Sweden it must be paid at one time and in one year, and in fact in Finland it will apply more taxes than in Sweden in the future. So we have tried to make a lot of flexibility at this first stage, but we certainly need more economic action, and of course the government is interested in all these good and quick ideas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u18	Mr President! Finland is closed because we want to protect the risk groups and the weaker, and it is up to us others now to follow this advice. Everyone, as we are doing here today, must do our best to ensure that the virus does not spread, that these tough measures are really useful. But what this leads to is that people are in great need at the moment of their jobs, their livelihoods and their businesses. We have 187,000 sole proprietors, who are in a very difficult position in the front line, tens of thousands of companies that do not pay the bills, and they themselves have their own bills. This is a critical situation. Action is needed now and here, and it is good that the government will think about it tomorrow, because the measures taken so far are a good start but are not sufficient for that acute cash crisis. Action is needed: the coalition will encourage and support the government in every way that will make the situation easier for entrepreneurs. On our list we have three months' exemption from employers' contributions, the possibility of local reconciliation, even now on a temporary basis, and then the social security of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u19	Mr President! I'm fully sharing the situation picture with Congressman Orpo. The situation is extremely serious, and this is extremely serious, especially for small entrepreneurs, self-employed people and small businesses. At the same time, I would also like to thank the opposition for the fact that we have received a lot of good tips from you – and we have also received from stakeholders – which should be given attention, and they have been examined with the whole government, and I also thank the social partners. Tomorrow we will indeed be announcing what it will be about the overall package, but the most important thing at the moment is the situation of a small entrepreneur whose balance sheet is in practice the balance that is reflected in the note taken from the ATM. To them, I would actually like to say — and I am wrong to say that you should look for financial models in Finnvera, we will increase the possibilities with billions — that the first contact is probably the bank.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u20	A minute's deadline.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u21	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u22	Mr President! Now, if ever, is the time for neighboring society. I would like to thank the government for being quick and clear and easy to understand. I raise one big concern, and it concerns the enforcement debtors who are currently thinking that if they are laid off or laid off, how will they cope with their payment plans? Also, if the payment plan in the individual’s debt arrangement lapses in these situations, it means that the entire payment plan and everything that has been put into it will lapse. So I ask the government: are there any specific measures planned for, for example, the suspension of enforcement operations? We know that there is an instruction in the enforcement cycle and in the enforcement procedure for such situations that one or two months of relief can be made in a payment plan, but that is not enough in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u23	Mr President! That's a good question for a representative. Of course, in this very difficult situation, the government is trying to go through everything. I have also commissioned our officials in the Ministry of Justice to look at the enforcement situation and see what can be done under the existing legislation in order to facilitate those in this difficult situation. As Mr Laukkanen also said, there are some measures in the enforcement arch. For particular reasons, it is possible to facilitate the situation of enforcement debtors on a case-by-case basis. For example, for a specific reason, the enforcement officer may grant the debtor a payment period of three months at the request of the debtor and, for a specific reason, the payment of wages may also be granted months of leave or a reduction in the amount due for a limited period or for an indefinite period. In other words, we are going through this and I also hope that the enforcement men will now take some thought into it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u24	Mr President! My question concerns interest rate testing and its situation in Finland at the moment. It is now the case that, according to the World Health Organisation, the testing and post-test isolation of the corona is an effective means of slowing the epidemic down and that is how many countries have achieved good results in the fight against the disease. However, there seems to be insufficient use of these tests in Finland and worrying messages from the field that even people suffering from symptoms would have been turned away from hospitals without testing and saying that you should go home and get sick. In addition, people from foreign resorts are still returning to Finland. I wonder how their testing has been taken into account. Many countries test all immigrants. So I ask: what does the government intend to do to increase the testing capacity in Finland immediately so that people can be properly tested? I would also like to point out that very little has been said in the public debate about the situation of family carers and care providers, and I would like some comments from the government on what is being done about the status of family carers in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u25	Mr President! This question of testing is often asked, and that is our national concern. That is why the Council of State, both last Thursday and Monday, has now stepped up its own efforts to increase this testing capacity. These tests are now being carried out in Finland almost 1500 copies a day — so we are about to be tested at a level of about 1500 copies a day. This is what I last asked the experts today, and this amount corresponds to the Chinese testing capacity in proportion to the population at the peak of their epidemic. Nevertheless, we are committed to choosing a strategy to test more and more people in Finland. As fast as we can increase the testing capacity, we will. Action has already been taken last week when this Government-level approach was adopted, and to this 1500.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u26	Mr President! Today, our civilisation and Finnish civilisation are measured in a very specific way in how, as a society, we can work to ensure that the greatest possible security in life and health is maintained, and in this respect, what we have seen is mostly positive about European society. We are able to take significant action, we are able to do this together. At the same time, of course, it is very true that an extraordinary number of Finns today are concerned about what will pay the bills tomorrow, and some face the crisis in the economy more violently and faster than others, and perhaps the most difficult situation is now for those small businesses in the service sector, especially the self-employed, and in this respect I ask: is it possible that, in the event that a full-time entrepreneur hits the demand wall, too, who currently does not have access to the adjusted daily allowance, normal social security, other than by giving up his business permanently, could be caught up, as is the case with a secondary entrepreneur at the moment? This is a question that thousands of small entrepreneurs are currently thinking about, and I hope that rapid changes will be made. People are also concerned about this timetable at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u27	Mr President! This is our common concern. Now that we look at the situation of businesses, and in particular at the situation of professionals and self-employed people, the situation is that we need to secure funding quite quickly, we need to make a quick effort to reduce costs and then we need to make a quick effort to make the necessary living for people. This is a whole which we are now examining in the government and today with five parties we are going through, specifically this issue of the status of self-employed workers, because they are in a very vulnerable position in this particular situation when domestic demand and over-demand are rapidly falling. We are now experiencing a crisis in the real economy. This is not the usual economic crisis we are used to, but we are living in the crisis of the real economy, and that is why we are now seeing a strong start to these measures and we are looking at all the instruments we have to help these people — both the professionals, the self-employed, the larger companies, and also the workers in this difficult situation. We are in this situation together, and all the work must be done, and the government is committed to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u28	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u29	Mr President! The sole entrepreneur has not only the importance of pay, but the rents they have to pay, and when many entrepreneurs do not have any activity, this rent payment will be very difficult for them. I would have asked the government if you had any advice or are you going to do something about it? If you think of a shopping mall with 200 companies and no customers, the same rents will have to be paid. This is the kind of thing that entrepreneurs think about a lot: how do they cope with these rent payments?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u30	Mr President! During that weekend and early week, there have been numerous discussions with various actors who are in an impressive role in this situation, and one of them is the landlords. Based on the discussions I have been having, say, with the most significant landlords in Finland, they have had a strong understanding of the situation. It is not their interest to drive the entrepreneur down because the entrepreneur is a tenant. They'll recognize the situation there, too. But of course I assume and hope that these speeches, which we have had in various negotiations and discussions, will become more concrete because, as Mr Harkimo said, the sole entrepreneur's rent and property costs are the biggest items. However, the fact that the government could impose rent levels/exemptions is unlikely to be possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u31	Mr President! It is excellent that the government is specifically addressing the plight of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. What happened after the recession in the '90s, no one wants to be repeated here. We know that our economic system was faced with a wide range of threats and challenges even before the corona virus epidemic. Among other things, our demographic challenges, the imbalance in public finances and so on are all going to get worse. The situation is different from what it used to be in that this shock does not come from within the economy at the moment, but is a virus that spreads, makes you sick and kills you. It is therefore essential to ensure that the epidemic is slowed down and that healthcare capacity is maintained. Otherwise, no economic action will be relevant either. In other words, economic activity is currently dependent on the virus, not primarily on money. That is why the time for resuscitation is actually later and now we have to react to an acute threat. My question is: how does the government support the Finnish health system in order to be able to respond to this highest peak of epidemics ahead?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u32	Mr President! I think it is a very good analysis that we now need to focus on slowing down this epidemic, and in this respect the measures taken are aimed at maintaining the capacity of social and health care in all circumstances. The epidemic has been slowed down at all its stages: we have already gone ahead of the epidemic to prepare for measures to trace these transmission chains, then to the decisions taken by last Thursday and now to these new decisions. The common denominator for all of these actions is that we ensure that people refrain from social contact in an interactive situation here and now because we get fewer of these infections and that it protects social and health care. We are going to have significantly more resources in the amending budget to ensure that this is fully in order. Tomorrow, the national plan will tell the various actors how to take action at the basic level and at the specific level, how private individuals will be involved in this picture, as well as organisations. And the most important thing is that we are able to guarantee the health of the medical staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u33	Mr President! In the face of this crisis, it is the small companies which have not been very much thought of by these large social partners. Most of these companies are non-organised. We know that they generally work well, that they are able to settle things, because Finns are reasonable and responsible, as Prime Minister Marin said yesterday on television. They could also make this situation much easier if we could now agree more freely on arrangements, working hours, wages and other working life parameters. It would be a very easy way to do this: the first step would be to dismantle the specific bans on local agreements on free, non-organised companies. Those passages are easy to write. I can hand them over to you. Don't you think it's time, Attorney General Henriksson, for us to move forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u34	Mr President! As far as local reconciliation is concerned, I believe that it goes more to that side of the Minister for Labour. I have always been in favour of an agreement in all matters — when it is possible to agree so well — but of course the government is now looking at this situation, and the Minister for Labour is responsible for these matters, as perhaps Mr Vartiainen knows.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u35	And now, Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u36	Mr President! With the corona virus, our country is in an emergency state that affects everyone who works in Finland. Many people are distressed when they suddenly stop living and wonder where the money for food and the next rent comes from. The unemployment funds are tough and there is a risk that the processing times will run the risk of being prolonged. The bottoms of the coffers are not yet visible, but the employee is interested in how quickly the money is in the account. It requires human resources for the cashiers. Mr Pekonen, could the processing process now be temporarily facilitated so that decisions can be taken on the conveyor belt?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u37	Mr President! There has been a good, thorough debate about the concern caused by this corona virus in relation to the economy, from the point of view of both companies and employees and all of us in Finland. This situation of unemployment funds raised by Mr Malmi is one thing that we will also take into account here as a whole. We have many different activities in addition to unemployment funds, for example Kela, which has already been congested in many situations, and people are waiting in line for their livelihoods. These are issues that we are now going through with the government and we are wondering how best we can organise the situation in such a way that people will be less harmed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u38	Representative Salmon
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u39	Mr President! I will return to this very serious economic issue, because many Finnish companies, and hence many jobs, are now under threat. In a particularly difficult situation, companies whose demand for products and services has collapsed or even ceased. Therefore, it is extremely important that those companies that have no need other than to protect themselves against that virus continue their business normally and thus keep the wheels of the Finnish economy running. It is now extremely important that the message from both the government and this Chamber is as uniform as possible: we will do everything we can to prevent any healthy Finnish company from going bankrupt. We have been told about these support packages, and we will also hear more about them on Friday, tomorrow. I would like to ask the government: do they take due account of professionals, freelancers and small and medium-sized enterprises? And now many entrepreneurs are interested in what is the timetable for bringing these aid packages and solutions that help businesses into force, at best.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u40	Mr President! It is quite clear that the government will do everything in its power to get rid of this virus, and it is quite clear that the government will do everything in its power to ensure that Finnish companies do not fall into this virus or, as a result, this country does not suffer mass unemployment. And that is why, as many Members have said here, it is important that we now get the lay-offs moving quickly, that companies that have suddenly come up against the wall quickly get the costs down. But it also means that it is important that people continue to consume, that they buy those products in the nearby store and try to help the entrepreneur in the neighborhood and visit the online store there. All the means in this exceptional situation can be used to support the domestic demand that is now in such a difficult gap. Mr President! The government will introduce legislation very quickly not only on taxes, as has been said here, but also on labour law issues, and hopefully then Parliament will be able to put them into effect as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u41	Congressman Holopainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u42	Mr President! This corona pandemic really treats different companies and different sectors differently. Finns and Europeans are mainly employed in the service sector. The consumption of services in particular has now plummeted. Unfortunately, we will see layoffs, redundancies and bankruptcies, even though we will do everything we can to avoid them. At the same time, many have to risk their own livelihoods by isolation from home conditions and caring for children, which is necessary in this situation. More and more people are now in need of social support to secure their livelihoods, and is it not at the same time encouraging people to be very creative and free to make a living from different sources, to study? Even after this crisis, there are areas where there are labour shortages. Now is the time to encourage them to do so. We should make life easier for people. For example, we could temporarily waive the need-tested treatment in Kela's unemployment benefit, minimum sickness allowance and parental benefits. So I ask Minister Pekos: What measures will the government take to secure income for people who are unemployed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u43	I would like to draw your attention to the one-minute limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u44	Mr President! Such a crisis, which has now hit all our society, will certainly also create creativity and cause people to reflect on different ways of safeguarding their own livelihoods. But it is self-evident that we need to reflect on these issues raised here by Mrs Holopainen with regard to unemployment benefit, including home care for children, because many people are now in a situation where they have to stay home with young children without any certainty about their livelihood. And in fact, when I said that the government is going to think, we are not going to do so, but we have really already done so. We will certainly work more in this evening and during the night with the power of the whole government to tell people as soon as possible how the government will act in this situation, how we can help financially people who are in distress because of this corona virus,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u45	Mr President! It is particularly good to hear that the government will be publishing tomorrow measures for small businesses and for all those companies that, in this situation, are waiting for the strategy with which their business activities will be saved. However, I would like to highlight the particularly vulnerable people in Finland, i.e. the low-income people. According to some estimates, there are as many as 900,000 poor or almost poor people living in high - risk groups in Finland and about half a million people living in deep poverty. Many of them even live on food aid almost completely. At the moment, several food operators, which there are about four hundred in Finland, cannot provide that food aid to them, because groups of more than ten people cannot be arranged. Some do creatively: they supply food bags to homes and try to help further. In order to continue this neighboring work during this long, perhaps very long, crisis, whether the government could also look at organisations, give them additional support to do this door-to-door activity, to take food aid to people and also, for example, to trade on behalf of these people in a high-risk group.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u46	Mr President! This question is very acute and, in many respects, difficult, because we do not want to cause people to be infected in food queues, but at the same time it is not the fact that people are not being helped, and Mrs Niikko is quite right in that regard. This concern has also come to my attention, and in this regard we are currently wondering how we can respond to this acute distress. Support for organisations is certainly one, and then the other option is for municipalities to play a greater role, and why not both. But since I do not yet have concrete measures to put forward, they are now being considered, in this regard I recognise that there is an issue here that needs to be addressed. It is also good to say that there are a lot of things we have to consider together on how to respond to them, and not all the questions have yet been answered.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u47	Mr President! Two aspects: The first is to keep up with people. We have professionals in health care, elderly services, day-care centres, schools — teachers stretch beyond belief in the provision of distance education — and even in homes, and, above all, in the case of the elderly, that is a great concern. I hope that all the means will now be put in place to ensure that we have adequate telephone services and different kinds of mental support, for example, even in this difficult situation, and that people are not left alone in these critical groups at the workplace either. Another aspect, a little more concrete: the quick-jump companies are now preying on people's distress and financial distress, and I cannot imagine any more irresponsible activity. At the meeting we propose that we urgently restrict their harsh activities and immediately impose marketing restrictions. I would like to ask: is the government ready for this, and can we together make a proposal on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u49	Mr President! A very good question and a good observation. It is a real shame that, in this difficult and serious situation, we have entrepreneurs who will then try to benefit from the plight of people. We are now in the Ministry of Justice to consider what to do about this. In the course of this day, I have learned that the Emergency Act itself is not the instrument for this. But from the Ministry they have been in contact with the Competition and Consumer Office, and the Agency will now, as soon as possible, give instructions to consumers on how to deal with payment difficulties. The Agency will also encourage creditors to be flexible as far as possible with regard to requests for extension of payment periods. This is certainly something that deserves attention, and we are now thinking very carefully about what we can do about it. I would like these entrepreneurs to understand this situation and now look at the whole, not just themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u50	Congressman Salmonkoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u51	Mr President! Now that society is practically closed because of the interest rate, many citizens are suffering great loss of earnings. Some small entrepreneurs and employees may even lose their jobs altogether. Unfortunately, we hear lay-off and news every day. It is anticipated that Kela and the unemployment funds may become very congested. Another cause for concern is the fact that many parents are practically forced to stay at home with schoolchildren. If there is no possibility of teleworking, even in these cases, income may be threatened if the employer is not flexible. The situation of single-parent families in particular is difficult and fragile. In many countries, new, significant reforms have been made to ensure the livelihood of small entrepreneurs and workers. What measures does the government intend to take to ensure people’s livelihoods and the smooth payment of benefits?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u52	Mr President! Representative Lohikoski here well described this situation at the moment: uncertainty, fear, anxiety in many families about how this income payment will be made by the government. As I have already said to Mrs Holopainen, we are doing all we can in the government at the moment to be able to deal with this matter and to resolve it as soon as possible so that no one has any doubts as to what kind of potential benefits they are going to receive during this crisis. With regard to unemployment funds and Kela, we will strengthen resources as best we can. But it must also be said honestly that this situation that we are in has come very quickly, and that also means that we do not have time to train staff for these demanding tasks, for the benefit treatment of the unemployment fund or for Kela. But I promise you, we'll do our best.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u53	Congressman Norrback.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u54	Mr President, ärade talman! Det är inte bara vi människor som ställs på hårt prov, också samhälls ekonomisen lider kraftigt av coronapandemin. Då gränser stängstängs riskerar företag, till exempel byggbranschen, men inte minst primängarna som är helt beronde av utländsk arbetskraft, att drabbas av arbetskraftsbrist, hur konstigt det än låter. Jag tar växthusnäringen som exempel, det handlar också om frilandsodling och give primerproduktion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u55	Mr President! This is a real problem for seasonal workers at the moment, because for years we have had a situation where there has been a significant proportion of seasonal workers, especially on the garden side, on vegetable and berry farms, in production, and now a large part of them are outside the borders of our country. This is well-known in the government and we, together with the Minister for Labour and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, are working on this matter. That work has started a long time ago, and we are looking for the means to do this. Similarly, we are going through the domestic opportunities in this situation, how we can ensure that seasonal workers are then made available to farms and to other companies in this respect. The situation is problematic, it is quite fair to say, but we are trying to find solutions to it in every way, both at home and abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u56	Mr President! The government has made a very strong effort to overcome this corona virus pandemic. Of course, this is a serious blow to the economy, but these measures are justified, for two reasons. Firstly, because it is more important than the economy to protect life and especially the lives of the elderly in our country. Secondly, the economy will never recover until there is a vision that we can get this situation under control. That is absolutely a prerequisite, and that is why we must now take all the steps that can be taken, as the government goes ahead. It's justifiable. Banks play an important role in this. Financial supervision eased the capital requirements of banks. It makes it possible to lend 30 billion dollars. It is now important to ensure that these are not used for profits, but that they are used to credit companies, because it makes no sense to bring companies down to the liquidity problem in the world of zero interest rates, you have to go over. And then the employees and the people who are concerned: Now we see how important this unemployment benefit is. Is it possible that this write-off will take effect retrospectively from the beginning of this week? This is very important in order not to have to resort to these speed levers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u57	Mr President! Mr Lindtman raises a very important question here, and when a country has actually faced a crisis which is causing layoffs, certainly also unemployment, it is important that we also look at the days of unemployment security. That is what we shall be doing shortly and I really hope that we will be able to tell you tomorrow about the decisions that the government will take on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u58	Mr President! In times of such a crisis, of course, the central government's main task is to safeguard human health and other basic needs first and foremost. There must be water, food, heat and medical care, things like this, and of course we will do everything we can to guarantee people. Now we have read in the newspapers that Sweden has even asked if Finland could get food when food self-sufficiency is so low. A lot of energy is also imported into Finland from abroad. I would have asked the Minister for Energy: At what level is our energy self-sufficiency at the moment? I know that a lot of electricity is imported to Finland and also in other forms of energy. How do we react in such a situation that the personnel of a power plant on a large scale become ill? Are we sufficiently prepared for such events and such things so that we can secure the energy supply of our country, both electricity and heat distribution, under all circumstances?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u59	Mr President! For the benefit of the representative, I can say that we did go through these arrangements with our major energy producers at the time when this situation began to unfold. Perhaps the most important role is the staff of the nuclear power plants, and they have their own systems to secure the staff and that we are going to be fine. When these laws were introduced, paragraph 3 of Article 3 was used, which also allows energy to be restricted if such a situation occurs, and is, of course, the ultimate means. At the moment, there is nothing in sight that we do not have enough energy. Of course, at the moment we are also importing some externally, but in domestic energy production we have nothing to worry about in that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u60	Mr President! Two things that have not yet come to the debate: municipalities and local government finances. There has already been a very narrow situation in the municipalities and negotiations have begun. Pihlajamäki, Chairman of the public and well-being sectors, now warned of the risk of dismissal and lay-off, because there are our social and health care professionals working at home and in health care. I would like to ask: what package and message would now be for the municipalities, that there would be no emergency solutions and such economic balancing programs would not be considered first and foremost, as in my municipality of residence At Hyvinkää, where I strongly disagreed that negotiations on cooperation should not now begin in this situation — in the same week when it is announced that there is a state of emergency? The second question is for the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, on justice and justice: I get a message that the judges are a little confused about the fact that the Court of Justice is not going to properly communicate how to prioritize the sittings, there is no such thing. Is the Minister of Justice aware of the situation in the courts?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u61	Now, close answers to both. — First Minister of Local Government Paatero.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u62	Mr President! Local government finances have been in crisis in the past, and it is now a challenging situation that tax revenues will be reduced and, on the other hand, large costs will be increased. We will probably be tabling an addition to the first amending budgets on this side of the municipal economy. With regard to the workers, we are also making a list of who are critical workers. A large number of them are municipal workers, which is why it is probably not very realistic that on that side it would be possible to do so, because in addition to care and care, social welfare and health care, and people on the educational front, the managers of waste, water, energy and other infrastructure are all municipal workers and critical of our society's survival.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u63	Mr President! That is why it is important that, even in exceptional circumstances, our judicial system works and we have independent courts. They themselves largely decide how to organise their work, and now we have a new Court of Justice office which, in a way, also gives instructions and so on. I am now in the position that I have not had the opportunity to contact the Court of Justice in the course of this day, and that is to say that I have not now received these concerns from the representative. The sea here brought out, but I'll call there and see what the situation is. We must bear in mind that our judicial system operates independently and that the administration of justice must also operate under exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u64	Mr President! The virus epidemic is progressing, and the inevitable consequence of it is these economic difficulties, which have been discussed a great deal now, and the financial distress is now present in many Finnish families today, whether it is an entrepreneur or an employee. We have had a debate here, and on the basis of the answers given by Prime Minister Marin and, in particular, by Minister Lintilä, I believe that the Government's picture of this situation is clear, and I also believe that you are taking genuinely effective measures to make this financial distress, both for entrepreneurs and for employees, easier and better. But we have not discussed the EU at all. After all, Finland is a member of the European Union and, if I am right, the European Union has launched a crisis finance package of EUR 750 billion to minimise the impact of this corona crisis, and now it would really be interesting to know how Finland and the Finns could benefit from this crisis package. Will entrepreneurs send applications directly to the EU, or could it go so that, through national funding mechanisms, this aid package would also benefit Finnish people and Finnish companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u65	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kopra, for the important question. Indeed, last night, the ECB has announced a rather large measure, EUR 750 billion they are putting in motion, and the aim is, of course, to safeguard the uncertainty that is currently emerging in the financial markets, and it is, of course, still evident in the various countries. Let us hope that this ECB package will create stability and, in fact, many mechanisms have taken it in the same direction. The EU is coming up with a number of parts that we can put into this fight against the corona virus, for example from cohesion funding. If you think about the ECB's package, it should account for around EUR 15 billion for Finland, and it is of course important that we ensure that it will also be used for the difficult situation of Finnish companies now. After all, the state has also contributed to this, and also the Financial Supervisory Authority, so we are trying to do everything in our power to support the attack on businesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-28.u66	Mr President! I would like to thank the representatives for their questions and all the parliamentary parties for their cooperation in the midst of this difficult crisis and situation. We are living in exceptional circumstances, an entirely exceptional situation, both from the point of view of human health and the economy, and I understand very well that there are many questions in this Chamber, as citizens do at home, about how this situation is dealt with, how it goes over. Nevertheless, we must all recognise that, unfortunately, we have to live in uncertainty and the government does not yet have the answers to all these questions at this stage. We are working hard today, as we have done before, and here we shall continue to find answers to all these concerns and all these questions, but we must also be honest in recognising that we are all facing new ones and that there are no answers to all these questions at this point. But I want to believe that together we are now going to solve this challenge, all parties in this room as well as the whole of society, and I want to appeal to all Finnish people to follow these instructions, to take care of their own health and of the health of loved ones and fellow people. I would also like to appeal to the Finnish business community, the economic operators, that there is also an understanding on that side that everyone needs to be flexible now.
