ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u2	Congressman Mäkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u3	Madam President! There are terrible news from the Finnish export industry. Due to the future outlook, Kaipola factory in Jämsä is being closed down. The government has just implemented a record increase in fuel taxes. The reasons for the situation in the forest industry are therefore a climate policy with a wedge-eyed eye and an ever-increasing tax burden. At least a sitting government does not make predictability easier. The Finnish Government's decisions drive competitiveness to its knees, and production moves to cheap countries where the environment and the workforce are ignored. True Finns understand that a Finnish factory pipe is a responsible climate action. Mr Government, are you going to improve the purchasing power of Finns and the competitiveness of industry? Would it be all right if, first of all, you cancel the record fuel tax increase you've made? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u4	Mr President! The government has decided to lower the electricity tax on industry to the minimum level in the EU. This is an important opening in terms of our industry being competitive in the future, but also in terms of our industry being electrified. Yesterday, I met with the actors in the forest industry, the CEO and the chairman, and they presented, among other things, the work that was being done. The forest industry has expressed its view on how the industry is moving towards carbon-neutral Finland in 2035. Finnish industry has called for a progressive climate policy, and the forest industry also plays its part in this as a whole. As part of the road map work in the industries, they have made their own road map of how the industrial sector is being reformed to be sustainable, and they see the great potential of climate action in Finland, so that we also create production and activities that have a competitive position in the future market. So I don't see this as a confrontation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u5	That being the case, and here again I would like to remind you that questions and answers may last for a maximum of 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u6	Instead of making a long-term and sustainable employment and industrial policy, you are undermining competitiveness and expelling Finnish companies abroad. You're after six hours of work. There's no realism in what you're doing. Will this swamp be overcome by increasing social security and reducing working hours? We're not gonna make it. As the Prime Minister said, the government of one of the long-term targets of the Finns is about to implement: a reduction in the electricity tax on industry to the minimum level in the European Union. But when a screw is tightened even harder at one end, the benefit is left to the cold. The government distributes cake collected by increasing tax burdens on costs, development aid and the financing of tax reductions in the countries of southern Europe. Mr. Government, where is your sense of reality? Now tell the Finnish people: how do you secure Finnish work and increase jobs?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u7	Mr President! In its budget line, the Government will take decisions to strengthen employment and strengthen the Finnish economy. We are in the midst of an exceptionally deep crisis, and the government has been taking measures throughout the year to ensure that Finland survives this crisis with the least possible damage that all the countries are facing together. Of course, as a whole, we in the European Union have also made important decisions for the recovery of our entire economic area. In this respect, Finland will also make its own recovery plan, which will enable us to strengthen our business activities and the operating conditions of our industry. Finland, too, has the opportunity to spend around EUR 3 billion on measures to strengthen green growth, green employment and digitalisation and to strengthen our competitiveness in a wide range of areas. This is what we need to involve the industry, the Finnish companies, and I personally see that this is a great potential for seeking future growth. With regard to your reference to the reduction of working time,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u8	There is another question about this same subject, the theme, and I will now give it to you. Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u9	Mr President! UPM 450 jobs, Finnair 1000, Lapland tourism 2000, Swissport 700 — list of closures and redundancies could be continued. In many homes around Finland, we are now thinking about how to manage this, how to handle housing debts, where to find a new job. Mr Marin, the need for these families is real. You brought out last Saturday's first morning at Yle that if you had been free to decide for yourself, you wouldn't have shut down Kaipola's factory in Jämsä. It is a beautiful idea, of course, but it raises the question of how well you actually understand how companies operate. The fact is that the company must be profitable
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u12	Mr President! Here are some false claims. I have already corrected the point that there is no reduction in working time in the government programme, and that is not intended as a short-term objective, but as a result of improving labour productivity, we can also improve the status and life of ordinary workers. A reduction in working time could be one such solution. It is not on this government's agenda and it has never been. If this debate is to continue, it can certainly be done, but this fact will not change. The second incorrect argument here is that private companies would have been snarled with regard to testing. That is not the case. The government has welcomed the capacity of our entire healthcare sector and has wanted good cooperation between the public and private sectors in getting our testing capacity as high as possible. This has been a clear message from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u13	Mr President! My next question is travel restrictions. Mika Salminen, an expert at THL, has said that Finland's travel restrictions are very strict. This already disturbs our tourism and the travel of workers from both here and abroad from Finland and here to Finland. I understand that the government is rather divided on this issue. You have different views among parties on what should be done about these travel restrictions, so that jobs can be maintained and people can also come to Lapland to maintain travel. What are you going to do to convince the rest of the party and the government of this? Minister Lintilä, I understand that you have a somewhat different position than other government ministers. I'd like to hear what's coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u14	The Prime Minister asked for the floor, the Prime Minister first.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u15	Mr President! There is no disagreement within the government about this. Of course, we want to keep the disease as good as possible and, at the same time, to safely open restrictive measures. As I have already said, the government has set out to prepare a health-safe travel model, which could make it possible, through a negative test result, to allow more work tourism and other forms of tourism, while at the same time ensuring that it is safe, and at the same time we can open up tourism for example in Lapland. This would be a big help for us, and this work is currently being done. I hope that next week this legislation can be sent to Parliament for consultation and perhaps in September, so that already in October we will have this health-safe model of travel. The needs of the companies in Lapland and other companies in the tourism industry have been heard and measures are being taken to this end, and I am sure that Minister Lintilä will be able to open this whole in greater detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u16	Madam President! The situation in tourism is very difficult, difficult and serious, and of course we have already lost the first months. We are always talking about tourism in Lapland, but it is usually Finnish tourism on a broad scale. We cannot make decisions in one area. We must strive to convince the tour operators that they can organise trips and that these passengers have the opportunity to come without special restrictions. That is the first objective, and next week, when we discuss borders, this must certainly be the main message of the government out. We all know that the Schengen restrictions will also stop before December, but what will they do and what will happen to those from third countries? Yes, we must be able to build the image of these tourist companies that they are able to sell trips. Unfortunately, we have already lost far too much for this winter in the north.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u17	Mr President! Taxation and current transfers are a good way to share and equalise well-being, but, contrary to what is often believed on the left, they do not create well-being. This requires productive work and, in the case of Finland, the export industry in particular. There have been very different views on the ranks of the government parties, including the proposal to nationalise the Kaipola plant. Of course, the conditions under which companies operate do not depend on ownership. Among other things, Finnair is in the process of major negotiations. It is true that there will be no investment in Finland unless Finland is an attractive investment environment. There is nothing we can do about locations and distances by means of political decisions, but, for example, we can influence transport prices, taxation, forestry policy and the side costs of wages. The question is: is the government going to influence these factors, and if so, in what way?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u18	Mr President! Finland’s competitiveness is made up of a variety of factors. One large entity that has already been decided by the government is the lowering of the electricity tax on industry to the minimum level in the EU. This is a long-awaited action, and this government will do so and has already made decisions and policies, and this will happen at the beginning of next year. This is an important hand-out for industry. There are other factors that affect our competitiveness, such as investment decisions by large companies. In fact, I would like to highlight here the debate that has been taking place over the last few days, for example, on the confrontation between health and economic conditions, as if these were opposing positions. Personally, I see that if Finland is able to deal with its situation in a situation of corona pandemic so well that we are able to keep the disease at a very low level, then international investors will also see which societies, in a crisis of this kind, have managed to manage the situation well, where there is a stable, secure system, where the authorities have taken the necessary decisions,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u19	Still a minute is a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u20	Madam President! The situation is indeed serious. We have 400,000 unemployed, thousands and tens of thousands of people are negotiating, companies are giving out these serious messages, people are worried. There are constant contacts from different sectors, regions and regions about how my job is going to turn out. As you said, Prime Minister, competitiveness consists of many things, but that competitiveness is all in this situation now that the interest rate is reducing the world market. Finnish export companies, the foundation of our well-being, are fighting to keep them alive. And those decisions are needed now to improve competitiveness. You said that health and the economy go hand in hand. Health care has been reasonably well, excellently well, but the economy has not. Now we need rapid decisions to improve the economy and competitiveness as well. Prime Minister Marin or Minister of Finance Vanhanen: Are you making real decisions in the budget debate to improve Finland’s competitiveness? Do you decide that the cost of industry will not increase?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u21	Mr President! On an earlier question, it was said here that we do not appreciate companies. When you look at what the government decided in spring and June to solve business problems, to ease them, it was a lot, and it tells us that we value them. Bankruptcy statistics tell us that so far this epidemic has been dealt with in a very responsible way, we have been able to preserve companies. We are doing, as the Prime Minister said, measures that affect competitiveness. We are operating under extremely difficult conditions, the world market is shrinking. Many of the company layoffs that have been reported here have nothing to do with government measures, but are the result of this global interest rate situation: there is no demand. We must deal with these issues together: business, state, labour market forces together. It's the way you have to answer this. Very easy solutions are sought here, as if a single fuel were the determining factor.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u22	Madam Speaker! It is supposed to be the task of the state to improve the purchasing power of citizens, that ordinary people can live, by cars and by consumption, buy things. Today, too many people in work in Finland live quite crampedly and drive an old car. The purchasing power of these Finns who are working hard must be improved, but instead this green left-wing tax-raising policy feeds on its purchasing power and it feeds on the competitiveness of companies. The waste of the Green Left here at the state level increases the pressure for more and more taxes to be raised. Instead of this green left-wing policy, we need to move on to a policy that encourages basic Finnish work and entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u23	Mr President! The Ministry of Finance's proposal for next year's budget is to make tax reductions on income tax related to the rise in earnings, but we are not going to put anything more on top of this. After all, this summer the Coalition Party argued that the reduction in income tax of EUR 1 billion could lead to employment. In it they themselves had the answer that it would produce 6,000 jobs — an amount of EUR 180,000 to give birth to one job. This is not the cost-effective way in which the government goes along.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u26	Mr President! Money is available thanks to the central banks and national recovery programmes, but is there enough courage for companies to invest in an uncertain environment, and will we be able to compete internationally when a strong euro eats up our price competitiveness? This was not just my idea, but the chief economist of the largest bank in Finland, Nordea, said that yesterday. Do companies have the guts to invest in this environment? Can we finally make it to the International Championship without devaluation? Minister of Finance Vanhanen, you have just rejected the tax cut on wage taxation. It would be a way to bring purchasing power to the Finns and create work. Of course, on a one-year level, it costs a lot of money, but when you look further, dynamics have a positive effect. But I ask you: in what way do you reject the feeling which has been created, that taxes do not remain the same but are going up?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u27	Mr President! Very many suggest lowering income tax as a means of promoting the economy. If the State could give up its income, it certainly would, but generally those who put it this way say that income tax reductions are financed by an increase in harmful taxes, and that is exactly what industry and exports are against. In fact, there is also an appeal to business organisations. On that side, too, it would be worth considering what genuinely are the means to be used. Is it a reduction in income tax or something else? From the point of view of the future and trust, the main question at the moment is how export expectations develop. I believe that quite a few companies are wondering when making investment decisions as to whether there is a genuine demand for a product in the world, and unfortunately the answer at the moment is that,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u29	Mr President! Here again, one incorrect argument came from the representatives of the coalition as to what kind of tax proposals the Social Democrats, for example, would have. I myself have opened up many times in this Chamber that we need to see this current crisis and the financial measures that we will need from a number of different points of view. At the moment, when we are in a deep crisis, in a difficult cyclical situation, we need a revitalising policy, revitalising measures, because we want to achieve growth and get out of this crisis. In addition to these measures, we need structural reforms which do not necessarily help in this cyclical situation, but in the longer term these structural reforms need to be carried out and can be carried out and the effects will be seen in the longer term. In addition to these, it may be time that we also needed adjustment measures. That is not the time now, not in this cyclical situation, but later this time can come, and then we will be discussing both the expenditure side and the revenue side, and then taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u30	I would like to remind both representatives and ministers very seriously now that the minute is one minute, and now the model is from Mrs Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u31	Mr President! Thanks for the encouragement. — It is clear that the continuing interest rate situation in the world gives cause for concern about the economic outlook and, in particular, the prospects for exports. And that is why it is important for Europe as a whole to recover, because it is difficult to see that only Finland would recover and the rest of Europe would not. Mr President! I would like to say that the argument that the government did not succeed in the midst of this corona crisis in the economy is a rather far-reaching interpretation. The damage that Finland has suffered so far in Europe has been the smallest — the smallest — and this too should sometimes be recognised by the opposition. The electricity tax is now lowered to a lower level in industry than at the time when the Coalition Party and the Finns Party were in the government. The price of diesel is lower in real terms than when the Finns were in the government. Action is needed, but now the most important decision on the budget debate is to support the economy, because if cuts were to be introduced now,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u32	Mr President! The cyclical situation is that recovery decisions have been taken this year. The EU recovery package will provide more of them. From a fiscal point of view, next year will be clearly revitalising, and it will be right in terms of economic policy. That is what this situation requires. This means that we will still have a high government deficit next year, and that we will not get anywhere from it. But that is the sensible thing to do now. We are not making major tax evasions that would have a significant impact on consumer demand. We are no longer doing any more budgetaryly-funded stimulus from the state this year on what has now been done and available through the EU package.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u33	Madam President! The question of cost competitiveness has been discussed here, and just as many times have been raised, the price of energy is of course central to the Finnish industry and the fact that the electricity tax is reduced to the same level as in Sweden, for example. This means that, in practice, large companies will have four times the cost of electricity, small and medium-sized workshops, metal workshops, 14 times the cost of electricity than it has been so far, so the government has reacted. However, just as has been pointed out, the cost-competitiveness associated with doing work is also significant and, of course, the many entries that are also included in the government programme are to ensure that jobs remain with us. But how can we get more of them in this country? So, Mr Government, how will the government ensure that we also have a high level of competitiveness in terms of the cost of employment at international level?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u34	Mr President! Ultimately, it is a question of what level we are able to maintain the level of various charges and taxes. It depends on how successful we are in maintaining employment, on the fact that our exports are pulling, in general, that this economic activity continues. We must openly and honestly admit that we are a welfare society that also needs its money to organise welfare services, and that money must be earned by working and exporting. This is about this vast package, which is managed responsibly. The government on its side of the economic policy wants to send out a message that everything that can be done to spin the wheels of the economy will be done. It is done in a way which, however, is also guaranteeing long-term sustainability.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u35	Mr President! Just as the Prime Minister said, it has been found that health and the economy go hand in hand, so it is important that the epidemic does not spread and that it is supported. Instead, it is important in the long term that we invest in knowledge, as is well known, and in productivity, and I would have liked to have heard the ideas of the government regarding the EU recovery package, so that we can avoid such over-concentrations of the industry structure such as the Kaipola paper mill and the adverse effects that result from it. It is absurd and unrealistic, as the Finns of Peru are saying here, that a single fuel tax would be a barrier to our competitiveness. Many factors stand in the way of this, as has been said here, and one of them is knowledge, and fortunately this is what has been invested in. In addition, we must ensure that a sustainable transition is made, that climate change is properly addressed. That's what works.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u36	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Holopainen, for an extremely important comment. Competence is absolutely central to Finland’s competitiveness. This government has very ambitious objectives in relation to the promotion of continuous learning and wishes to pay particular attention to the development of the skills of the working-age population. And if we look at such unfortunate restructuring situations, such as the closure of this Kaipola plant, the fact that employees' skills have been kept at a sufficiently good level during their working lives also provides them with personal security in the event of structural change such as that, apart from the fact that, of course, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is still able to direct training efforts in this area in a tailor-made way. In this national plan for the EU Recovery Instrument, we will make continuous learning a priority. Hopefully, there will also be funds available for continuous learning, both for digital services and for the practical funding of these labour market training.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u37	Mr President! Indeed, national competitiveness and the purchasing power of citizens are intertwined, as has been said here. It is equally true that there are, of course, commercial interests in the forestry industry, as elsewhere in the export sector, which are linked to this low-carbon technology, as the Prime Minister described. However, this basic problem continues here: Finland’s more ambitious climate policy, whether it be logging policy or diesel taxes, will lead to higher taxation. This, on the other hand, leads to a slightly higher wage increase and, on the other hand, if we do not have an independent monetary policy of our own, to our competitiveness being weakened and our country's cost level being run away. This will result in the loss of businesses and jobs out of the country and, on the other hand, the so-called labour shortage. These, on the other hand, result in more expenditure and less tax revenue, which again leads to the need to tighten taxes. This unbridled vicious circle is, in addition to the expansion of the public sector, which is actually behind most of our political and economic problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u38	Mr President! I'm going to bring up these fuel taxes. Fuel taxes are cent-based taxes. In practically every parliamentary term, they have received an increase corresponding to an index increase. If these increases were not made, the fuel tax would, as it were, reduce its real impact, its return would be reduced. So the fuel tax compared to almost all other taxes, which are based on percentages, is centimetre-based. Just as companies sometimes increase the prices of their products in order to maintain their real value and to rely on revenue development, so in the same way the state is seeking tax revenue from this too. While the Finns of Finland were in the government, the fuel tax was also increased with the same basic idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u40	Mr President! Economic policy and structural policy are quite different, even though they are being confused here. And there is no great disagreement about this cyclical policy, but structural reforms must be made now in order to create a better career for the future and for us to be able to afford a recovery policy, and that is why decisions must be taken now, even if they do not take effect immediately. I therefore have three specific questions for Mr Vanhanen, the Minister for Finance: will there be a budget debate to decide whether there are 30 000 or 60000 additional employees, as well as officials and researchers? What is the debt ratio that is said to stabilise — I have not heard any number — is it 80, 100, 200? We're adrift right now. And the third question that you have just avoided: can you promise that corporate taxes will not be tightened? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u41	Mr President! To the first question, I'm coming. My answer to the second question would be 75. There's no government decision yet. And the third question was?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u45	Mr President! From this debate, ladies and gentlemen, there has been no such perspective as municipal taxes. You are talking about the fact that taxation is not tightening up and we have a good economy. Have you looked at the situation in our municipalities? For example, in Hyvinkää, the share of local government labour market support has risen by almost 30% in the early part of the year and the number of unemployed and long-term unemployed by 40% to 46%. Think about the figures compared to one year ago. We have now been waiting a year for those employment measures, and municipal taxes are rising because there are no other means for the municipality than to raise taxes if the central government shares do not increase. What are you going to do about ending the continuing increase in municipal tax? Do you help the municipalities? Now the municipalities are paying for this increase in the proportion of local government labour market support, and the municipalities cannot make those decisions for you in order to increase employment. Answer me this. Municipalities and municipalities are waiting for an answer. The municipal tax — what do you do about municipalities not being in trouble — and this labour market support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u46	Mr President! It was in June that the Government made and the Parliament approved a fourth additional budget to respond to the deterioration of the local government finances during this epidemic and to the additional costs that municipalities have incurred. In other words, this issue has been resolved recently. The idea that the employment measures now being prepared would have an immediate effect on a situation in which part of society was closed down a moment ago and exports did not... We must not create the impression that political decisions, in the midst of such a situation, can immediately improve employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u49	Mr President! So far, the only concrete way in which our question from the government has been to reduce the tax on electricity. It has already been read in the Government Programme and has been read by the investment-thinking companies. Now we are talking about the whole government programme that feels that there is no faith in business. When we listen to what the Prime Minister has said this summer, or the Prime Minister's people, we have talked about this almost one billion-dollar tax evasion programme for the demersals. Among other things, you have re-imposed the exit tax on the agenda. In addition to this, Minister Harakka, among others, has spoken of the lack of concern about the deficit. We are not so concerned about this year's deficit either, because it is now an interest rate. But our view from now on is the darkest in Europe. What are you going to do? What will still have to happen before you wake up that genuine structural measures are needed, and precisely now, and not in a few years' time?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u50	Mr President! Indeed, the Government Programme has set down a reduction in the electricity tax from industry to EU minima. It's lined up, and this line is being held. This is a far-reaching policy that does not coddle, but is done as agreed together. You can also read in the Government Programme that it is precisely in this budget debate that it has always been intended to decide on the structural employment measures that will improve employment in Finland in the long term. The opposition is asked every day why you do not make those decisions today, but it was already read in the government programme that those decisions will come in this budget debate, within exactly the same time frame that we have set in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u51	Madam President! With tens of billions and then EU loans on top of it, is there a roof that can be taken, or can you think that this loan will never have to be paid back and that is why we can take how much? Where, the government, goes the point where the credit rating is getting worse and interest rates are rising? Italy already pays one and a half per cent of the ten-year loan. For us, it would mean several billions. Have you thought about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u52	Mr President! Every day I think about this. This was perhaps the most important question so far during this Question Time — without underestimating other questions in any way. [Laughter] There has been an important signal to the money market that the Eurosystem has a 60% criterion. No one believes that, we too have exceeded it, and just now, to Mr Vartiainen's question, I replied that, according to my own assessment, Finland should be able to make a commitment which now amounts to 75 %.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u53	Mr President! The structural measures requested by the Coalition Party are very often cuts in social security. However, cuts in social security do not create new jobs or protect existing ones. By impoverishing the poor, Finland’s economy will not rise and the welfare state will not be saved. At the moment, we need a stimulus at both Finland and Europe level, so that the wheels of the economy stay spinning. In the long term, productivity and knowledge are the most relevant for employment, so education policy is also extremely important. Mr President! The closure of the Kaipola paper mill in the middle of the corona crisis is extremely regrettable and support measures are needed in the Jämsä region. When international companies compare which factories are closed, it may very often hit Finland, because it is much easier and cheaper to lay off here than, for example, in a competitor country in Germany. So I ask the Minister for Employment: should the protection of collective redundancies be strengthened in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u54	Mr President! In connection with the closure of this Kaipola plant — and even earlier in connection with other such redundancies and plant closures — the question has arisen as to whether it is easier in Finland to lay off workers than elsewhere in Europe. That's how you can say it's easier to get laid off here. And that debate must also be held as to whether we should look at the protection of workers from dismissal in this respect in a new way. These are issues that have traditionally been agreed and discussed by the social partners, and I would be happy to see that, in this debate too, all the parties involved are involved and take a closer look at the way in which we deal with the protection of workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u55	Irade the Talman! When it comes to competitiveness, remember that raising wages has repeatedly been a source of employment for the Finns of Peru. [of the group of Finns: Nokäa!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u56	Madam President! The congressman did throw a pretty bad one now, didn't he? But if I remember, at the moment the company can apply for an extension of 16 months in a certain way. If it were to be spent in two years, I assume it would require a change in the law. The current accounting law will probably not allow that to happen. Well, then we could come to the situation of corporate tax revenue from that period. It could, of course, be thought of in such a way that if, at the moment, companies have been directly supported, it would now come, could it be said, as an amortised tax? Perhaps now, however, the most important thing would be for us to be able — even in relation to these previous questions — to brighten the outlook for the future. This is definitely the biggest problem for companies, both for their investments and for their activities, that predictability is extremely foggy at the moment. But it's an interesting idea, and I have to do some kind of finger training on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u57	At the end of this debate, we will take the first questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u58	Madam President! During this Question Time it has become clear that the government is not compromising its green-left tax policy, [Laughter] We Finns want to lighten the Finnish tax burden. We want to create incentives for a new corporate tax system that encourages investment and employment. These create jobs. Unemployment is not just being treated by paying more income support, it is being managed by creating jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u59	Mr President! This was an attempt at political stigmatisation that I wondered how I would respond to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u62	Mr President! I listened to Mr Haatainen's reply just now with some concern when he asked about preventing mass redundancies. What kind of message do you think this is sending to a company that might want to invest in Finland? I am quite certain that it will then be thought that at least we are not coming to Finland. Mr President! I believe that we need a dialogue between political decision-makers and business leaders. That is why I would like to ask you, Prime Minister Marin: are you prepared to invite, for example, a round table of social partners, business leaders and political decision-makers and, together, see what can be done about this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u63	In the past week, I have also discussed with business leaders, with important players who, of course, also have interests in investing in Finland, and we have had a dialogue. This dialogue has been conducted regularly with different parties, and as part of this whole recovery in the EU, for example, it is appropriate and sensible, and we have already had a debate in the government about this recovery plan in Finland, we need a close dialogue with business operators and businesses, because we naturally want to find together those areas where we will reform Finnish production and industry structures to support green growth, more digitally, which will improve Finland's competitiveness in the long term. These are very specific issues and issues in which we need strong and close cooperation, and I believe that this cooperation, hopefully, is also ready to be tackled by the industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u64	Next question, Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u65	Madam President! During the Korona period, care units for the elderly have become more closed, and many people have concerns about the level of care for their loved ones. There are serious shortcomings in the supervision of care for the elderly, and self-monitoring is also lame. After all, family members have often played an important role in bringing up mishaps, and it was also recently reported that cities are checking private care homes for the elderly but neglecting theirs. For example, more than half of the largest municipalities in Finland had not carried out any official visits to their own care unit since 2015. I would like to ask the Minister how this supervision of care services for the elderly will be addressed. Needed, as well as this regulatory oversight
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u66	Mr President! I thank you, Congressman. On this issue, because in this corona age we have talked too little about how people receive proper, good and high-quality care for the elderly in 24-hour care. In parallel to this debate on the corona, there are still some shortcomings that we must also be able to address in society. The measures taken by Parliament will continue to strengthen controls, and it is quite clear that this issue of self-monitoring concerns not only control from the point of view of the private service provider but also the whole sector. It does not matter whether the service provider is a public, private or third sector. The same rules apply to all of them. In Finland, we must be confident that we will provide good care throughout the whole line. In this respect, this work for the elderly must continue in every way possible, and this new, existing and future legislation precisely reinforces this importance of supervision.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u67	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u68	Mr President! I also raise concerns about the fact that, due to this corona epidemic in various parts of Finland, these care plans and treatment limits have been introduced in nursing homes, for example. During the discussions, doctors have raised, for example, proposals for resuscitation bans. It is recorded in the patient file of the elderly who have consented that a resuscitation ban, DNR, would have been agreed on in the telephone conversation, but it has emerged that many of the elderly who have agreed to a resuscitation ban have not understood what is really happening, or that there has not been sufficient dialogue and discussion with the family. I would therefore ask you, Minister, how do you intend to address this, that monitoring will also work in the implementation of these management plans, and that, for example, when deciding on resuscitation bans, which are from a human point of view,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u69	Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity to respond. This question was very acute at the time of the spring, and you refer to the debates in which the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health also had to inform the field that no game is available at the moment. It's really like this. In that regard, I think that there is cause for concern that there will be no such excesses during the autumn either. In this respect, we are monitoring the situation. As far as Valvira's resources are concerned, it is quite clear that we are now able to increase our resources slightly in relation to this control, but it has to be said that, in my opinion, we also have too few people who, by virtue of their responsibilities as officials, ensure that people receive good care in this country, and this also applies to Valvira's resources. In this respect, improvements must also be made in this direction and control, and there is still room for improvement, particularly in the area of control. We try to steer, and, of course, the social welfare reform will eventually bring results in the fact that shoulders as they widen, so on
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u70	Mr President! This issue of care for the elderly was very valuable — great that it came from the opposition — especially because we now have a government which, for the first time in its 25 years, is strongly on the side of the elderly, and many reforms have been being made here, including this nursing function and including the Ombudsman for the elderly. 90 per cent of people over 75 live at home, and 75 per cent of those over 75 do not use any public services for the elderly. However, in this situation of interest rates, we have given instructions that older people are isolated at home, and there is clearly a need for older people living in the home now to be aware of the public services available. So what will the government do about making older people more clearly aware of what services they have to receive from society? Clearly, this loneliness is a central form of folklore for the elderly at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u71	Mr President! First of all, it is good to say from the outset that these corona virus measures, which the authorities recommend for all Finns to follow, are currently the same recommendations for all, so in that respect I would like to say that we are all currently covered by the same hygiene rules and that we can already achieve a great deal in the fight against corona. It is now important to strengthen the ability of older people at this stage of tolerance, and so these measures, which have also been taken to strengthen the budget framework, have also been put into books and covers to provide the municipalities with the resources to take care of the ageing population as well. In this regard, it is important that we be able to serve people in the genuine provision of service guidance, and this is included in the first phase of the Act on services for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u72	Madam President! It is great to hear how care for the elderly is paid attention and care for the elderly is improved in many ways, both in institutional care and home care, and we cannot forget the care of the family, which is very important and increasingly necessary throughout Finland. At the same time, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have received a message from various parts of Finland that the situation of families with children is also very difficult in many respects and that the interest period has challenged families in many ways, both in terms of access to services and income. I would like to ask the government how we are trying to support families with children in this situation, for example, with the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u73	Mr President! We are also faced with a difficult question as this corona virus epidemic persists in how people cope. It concerns not only the elderly and their ability to act, but I am also concerned about the ability of families to function, that we in Finnish families could well be in the midst of this crisis. Some of the parents are working at a distance again, as we know, and this crisis is more likely to get worse when we look at the maps on which Europe glows in orange and red. Therefore, health policy measures are also important for this big picture of the economy, because the problems of coping ultimately cost us a great deal. That is why the investment in well-being policy and the economic investment that has been made in the everyday life of families during this corona period as recovery measures are also important evidence that we need to be able to support families more and more.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u74	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u75	Mr President! The main objective of the Government proposal 104/2020 is to implement the amendment to the Energy Efficiency Directive. This change came into force on Christmas 2018. The deadline for the implementation of the provisions requiring legislative amendments to the Directive expires 25.10.2020 . The Directive requires changes in how energy consumption in housing is measured and invoiced in national legislation. With the change, billing is tied to measured consumption and thus becomes fairer than before. There will be new obligations for energy producers and housing companies to supply consumption and billing data. This will provide private households with more information about their own consumption and an opportunity to gain economic benefits from a reduction in consumption. The implementation of the amendment to the Energy Efficiency Directive affects a number of national laws: the Energy Efficiency Act, the Housing Share Company Act, the Arava Restriction Act and the laws on the rental of a dwelling, the right-of-occupancy housing, and the interest subsidy on mortgages and mortgages on the right-of-occupancy housing. The main objective of the Energy Efficiency Act is to create the conditions and framework for energy efficiency improvement and energy saving decisions by regulating energy measurement, billing and the provision of feedback on energy use. Changes in housing laws aim to systematically measure water consumption in residential buildings and to invoice water consumption on the basis of actual consumption. In this way, the legislative changes in the Government proposal will contribute to energy saving and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from energy production and create conditions for the cost savings of energy end-users. Mr President! Following the entry into force of the laws, billing based on water consumption per apartment would be applicable in new multi-detached residential buildings and in residential parts of multi-purpose buildings. Old housing companies would switch to consumption-based billing as they would be fitted with appropriate readable water meters after the law entered into force, for example in connection with a line renovation. Shareholders, tenants and right-of-occupancy holders of a housing company should be provided with information on the measured consumption of water on the basis of invoicing and other criteria for determining the payment. The obligation of the supplier of heat energy to supply consumption and fuel data to the customer is expanding. The customer should be provided with information on energy consumption, the climate impacts of his consumption and the fuels used in energy production, and comparative information on the energy use of other similar consumers. In future, both water and thermal energy measures would require remote readability, thereby ensuring reliable and timely transmission of consumption data to the energy supplier and the housing company. A Government decree is still being prepared on the details of consumption and billing data and the allocation of costs. The preparation of the regulations is ongoing under the leadership of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Environment. The requirement for remote readability of water meters would be included in the construction regulations. A draft amendment to the Decree of the Ministry of the Environment is attached to the Government’s proposal. The legislative package also includes technical changes to the Energy Efficiency Act and to the Act on ecodesign and energy labelling requirements resulting from the judicial proceedings in administrative matters that entered into force at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u76	Madam President! Our colleague, Mrs Sakari Park, is absent today because of a happy family event. Warm congratulations to the representative of the park and her family for raising their families. As a result, I will bring to this bill Sakari’s greetings, which I fully sign. If the President-in-Office gives me three minutes from this moment, then I am pleased. Mr President! This legally challenging entity, which implements the amendments of the EU directive to Finnish legislation, has been reasonably successful. However, I would like to draw attention to a number of practical issues that are of major importance to housing costs. First, proposed Article 19 of the Energy Efficiency Act reads: ‘The metering operator must provide the end customers of the long-term heat and long-term cooling Competitive pricing is not defined by law. It would therefore be better at the legal level to use the term ‘preferentially priced’ in order to ensure the cost of the name Second, Article 4 of the Housing Company Act. and Section 27a of the Room Rental Act Notes: ‘The owner and the tenant must be provided with monthly data The monthly number of It also imposes unnecessary extra costs that the resident pays. For example, the level of information to be provided on a six-monthly basis would be sufficient. Thirdly, the draft law does not take into account the fact that both water, heat and electricity are consumed in housing companies in common spaces. There are stairways, storage facilities, washrooms and shared sauna facilities, whose water, electricity and heat costs must continue to be shared among all shareholders as before. Therefore, the absolute accuracy of the own dwelling consumption measurement for the end user is not as significant as one might think, the energy costs, also consisting of this shared share. Therefore, the requirement to use expensive MIDs on the end-user side is not justified. The final customers, i.e. housing companies, must, of course, know the MID-level measurement result, because the energy companies charge the housing companies. Mr President! It has to be borne in mind that the housing company does not invoice its shareholders, it merely imposes a certain proportion of the costs it incurs on its shareholders. It is therefore misleading to talk about the billing of end-users, which would therefore require MIDs, because this does not happen in Finland. This would only be the case if the water plant and the energy plant charged directly to the end user. Since the final customer is the subject of the billing, one MID is sufficient. Other meters can be cheap basic meters. Although it is expected that the measurement of cold and warm water per dwelling will reduce the use of water in dwellings when residents can influence their own costs, there will certainly be an increase in the use of water in shared facilities. Surrounded example: Nuuka foursome, a four-person family with an economic mind, moves to take a warm shower in the shared sauna facilities of the housing company, because it costs nothing in contrast to spraying in their own apartment. Cost savings for the family are significant because showering is by far the biggest consumption factor for the daily use of both warm and cold water. Thus, the family transfers their living expenses to others. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u77	Madam President! The Government's proposal for the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Directive is important and necessary. Currently, the water charge is levied on housing companies in most cases based on the number of people living in the apartment or the unit cost of water per area of the dwelling. In the future, the water bill would be based on individual consumption, which can be influenced by the residents themselves by their own consumption. Thus, at best, change encourages people to observe and thus save their water consumption. The reduction of waste water has a direct impact, for example, on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The treatment of waste and waste water consists of greenhouse gases which account for a significant proportion of the methane emissions from human activities. It is also great that this proposal includes a change in the fact that in the future the obligation of district heat sellers to supply their customers with consumption and fuel data will be extended. In the future, the customer will need to receive information about his own energy consumption, the climate impacts of his consumption, energy production fuels and comparative data on the energy use of other similar consumers. This issue contributes to an important improvement in the ability of individual consumers to monitor and improve the climate impact of their own economy. Overall, this proposal represents a promising step forward in energy efficiency and an important part of achieving climate objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u78	Madam President! Thank you, Minister. To Lintilä on a clear presentation of the legislative amendment. This amendment to the Energy Efficiency Act and other laws is based on EU requirements and is a question of implementing the Directive. It concerns the measurement of heating, cooling and hot water and the sharing of their costs. In its proposal, the Commission proposes that, in order to allocate these costs, meters should be installed in each dwelling. In 2018, nearly 83 per cent of the energy consumption of households was directed at heating the premises of residential buildings and drinking water. Once we have learned how to turn off lights and electrical equipment to control electricity bills and environmental impacts, this reform will also help us to monitor the effects of our operations on the consumption of thermal energy. The billing of heating, cooling and hot water on the basis of measured consumption increases Finns' awareness of actual energy costs and, in particular, personal consumption. When enjoying in a warm shower begins to appear in your own heat - energy bill, we are curiously interested in the matter. This will certainly strengthen our ability to change our way of living in an increasingly environmentally friendly direction and at the same time have the opportunity to save, as Minister Lintilä said. Raising awareness is an effective way to change the world. Remote indicators are today and ensure real consumption figures for both the end user and the energy producer. Mr President! The city centre wants to leave the earth to future generations in a better condition than we have received from past generations. The world has faced the limits of its carrying capacity in many respects. We only have this one earth, so we must move from our current consumption-oriented way of life to a reasonable economy. We must cultivate and preserve. This bill strengthens consumers' ability to make decisions on their own energy consumption based on real consumption, which helps households to reduce their housing costs and plan their own economy in a sustainable and environmentally friendly direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u79	Mr President! This legislative amendment is indeed putting into practice the EU's Energy Efficiency Directive, and this is a very welcome, desirable and justified change. It is really good that in Finland, too, in the future, the billing of water consumption and heat will be tied to it for real consumption in homes and other properties. Now, in many properties, fixed water charges are common, and when you do not know how much water you use, there is also no motive for cheap consumption. In my own hometown, the city’s rented house company recently received a lot of feedback that the residents felt it was unfair that they were unable to influence this water consumption and the costs it entailed, because there were no or even no apartment-specific water meters. It is very good that this matter is now being put right by law. Mr President! As has been said here, this change supports the climate and environmental objectives of both Finland and the EU. Especially heating causes significant climate emissions in Finland, but also consumption of warm water. When billed for actual use, it encourages sparing use of water and heat and thus increases our energy efficiency. It is also very important that we support a sustainable way of life and motivate people to do so economically. This government proposal goes beyond the minimum level of the directive by including cold water measurement and billing from outside the directive. I also consider this to be well founded, because it also takes its own energy to clean and process cold water. Mr President! It is, of course, reasonable and justified that this change should enter into force gradually in such a way that new buildings will initially be subject to regulation and at the time when the pipeline renovation is timely, including old buildings, but, of course, the housing companies with these water meters or who wish to acquire them will be able to move into this new regulation earlier, and it is also very desirable. This is a good proposal and the feedback received during the consultation has mainly been positive. This proposed regulation is largely considered to be fair and justified and should therefore be supported. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u80	Mr President! Indeed, the promotion of energy efficiency must be an integral part of our energy policy. When it comes to energy consumption and sustainable energy production, I think it is always important to highlight how saved energy is always the best option from the point of view of the climate, the environment and the economy, compared to any of the cleanest forms of energy production. It is therefore very important that energy efficiency and energy savings are strongly promoted. Indeed, Finland is committed to these stringent emission targets, especially in order to mitigate climate change, and energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way of achieving these emission reductions. Although the energy transition is leading us towards carbon-neutral energy production, the importance of energy saving and consumption flexibility will only increase further, and it is therefore very good that energy policy also focuses on this aspect. For example, it has been estimated that in Helsinki the heat saving potential will be about one-fifth of the current annual heat demand by 2030, i.e. it is not a small part either. Combining energy efficiency improvements with renovations, we can, of course, not only reduce emissions, but also improve housing comfort and reduce these heat production costs and get better information on the environmental impacts and costs of housing. Reducing energy consumption and even waste is also an increasingly important objective at European Union level, and increasingly this is recognised as a good tool, in addition to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, ensuring sustainable energy supply, increasing security of energy supply, reducing import costs and increasing EU competitiveness. So there are many synergies here, and it is good that energy efficiency is our strategic priority in the Energy Union and that the EU promotes this principle of energy efficiency as a priority. Well, now this government proposal has put together a whole series of changes in the measurement and billing of energy consumption. For energy efficiency to be achieved, this information on energy consumption is important, and it is these remote electric meters, for example, that help to make more efficient use of energy. As Minister Lintilä has well said, monitoring will help to increase the level of billing in addition to reducing emissions. In other words, these changes appear to be good and the opinions have been supported and we will indeed continue to work on this matter in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u81	Mr President! It is certainly fair that the invoice should be sent to the person who consumes it, and it is based on actual consumption, but I am not entirely sure whether it will happen in all cases. A couple of years ago, I remember contacting a building manager from Kuopio. There was a housing company with instruments — if the Minister is willing to listen — a housing company with instruments, but the articles of association of the housing company stated that the billing was based on the apartment-specific and the number of persons, and then there was an article that said that the amendment of the articles of association should be done unanimously. So even though the instruments exist and this law is good, I am a little uncertain whether this law will be able to pass the law on limited liability companies when there is a statement in the articles of association that the articles of association must be amended unanimously. If there's one problem, even if the meters exist, we won't be able to bill. I would hope that if the Minister remembers this, it will be checked whether this is the case. Once the articles of association have been drawn up there and called upon to agree, I do not know whether this law can legally retrospectively unify it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u82	Mr President! Often, when we talk about climate action, we get the impression that we are talking about such solutions that are negotiated between countries at climate conferences, or it is about large-scale industries and this type of thing. However, the vast majority of emissions actually occur there in people’s everyday lives, and it is a question of what choices individual people make, for example, in terms of their housing, mobility and nutrition. Therefore, in order to reduce overall emissions, it is important to create a system that always encourages people to make low-emission choices so that they have a clear incentive and motivation to reduce emissions. The euro is a pretty good consultant here and the fact that people have enough information to make these cheap choices. This government proposal is about precisely this kind of action. We are creating the conditions for each of us to be able to influence his personal, his own greenhouse gas emission weapon, and that is why this proposal, this change to which we are moving, is particularly gratifying. I have a strong confidence that Finns are very well informed about climate issues, and many people need to make such choices in everyday life, but sometimes it is difficult to find ways to influence them. This government proposal really does now give each of us a better chance to make such choices in the right direction, and then the whole of this is formed for us as a society with the opportunity to achieve a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u83	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-03-ps-107.u84	Madam Speaker! The Defence Forces are obliged to authorise the use and storage of chemicals normally. However, the self-storage of these operators is mainly related to the production of energy and reserve power in sites where the location, use and structures are secret. Confidentiality is an important national security issue. Efforts have been made to carry out the authorisation process for these sites with environmental authorities, either in the public domain or in the safety classification at level four. However, for understandable reasons this does not fit in with the principles of transparency of the Environmental Protection Act. Secondly, the ability of other so-called public authorities to process stamped material is limited. Required facilities and equipment, safes, case management and other systems may not be suitable for handling non-public data. Madam President! The amendments to the Environmental Protection Act being discussed are necessary for the Defence Forces to: The Defence Forces may fulfil the obligations imposed by environmental legislation on them by the operator and may be subject to supervision by the competent authority. Practical issues are still open in application, particularly as regards how classified material is processed in processes, how and in which systems the authority writes and archives permits and so on. The Defence Forces have always worked well with environmental authorities, and this cooperation will improve even further with these necessary legislative changes. The significance of these legislative changes is greater than may be understood in this Chamber, and it is a pity that this did not give rise to more talk.
