ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 11/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u2	Madam President! There is therefore a report by the Committee on Administrative Affairs on the law on the promotion of integration. After all, this law on the promotion of integration is being extended so that an unaccompanied child or young person who has been granted a residence permit after applying for international protection in Finland as a minor or who has been admitted to Finland under a refugee quota may be covered by the support measures instead of the current upper age limit of 21 years until he or she reaches the age of 25. In principle, I am in favour of this change. Many studies and studies have shown that integration in general has a particularly positive impact, and when it comes to young people, these effects are even more positive. It is also logical that, once the Child Welfare Act has previously entered into force at the beginning of this year, a change in the upper age limit for child welfare after 25 years would also put young people with immigrant backgrounds in the same position as those proposed in this Act on Integration. The True Finns have objected to this, and I understand the part in which they criticise that the government’s proposal to promote integration has nothing to do with the corona. In principle, exceptional circumstances have resulted from the fact that only corona-related and necessary proposals are now being discussed, and this proposal is different from this one. But in these other respects, I will not sign this criticism of the Finns. In particular, they have criticised the fact that Finland would become a more attractive destination for international protection and would even lead to some kind of asylum shopping, which I personally consider unlikely. This is mainly about services. It is not, therefore, a question of the provision of benefits for post-retirement services in accordance with the Act on Integration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u3	Mr President! As I have already said in the referral debate, this government proposal must be supported, and in that sense, as Mr Räsänen pointed out, that in the Child Welfare Act the upper age limit for aftercare was raised there for 25 years, this is also logical in that respect. And, of course, it is worth noting that, of course, asylum seekers who have come under the age of minors are not always necessarily covered by child protection measures, but, as has been demonstrated, it is of course extremely important that integration is successful and that they have access to these services. I remember that in that referral debate I also asked whether the committee was going to hear about this so-called issue of anchor children, i.e. when there was some debate about it, whether it was possible for there to be some incentive in this direction, but obviously this committee's short report and short consultation probably did not take any position on this issue. I do not think there are people here in the Administrative Committee who could have given some insight into what has arisen during that hearing. But, Mr President, I am sure that with these words the government's proposal is very good and forward-looking.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u4	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 12/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u5	Madam President! As chairman of the tax section, I am presenting the committee's report, which is to say that this proposal proposes a temporary amendment of the VAT law so as to exempt domestic sales and intra-Community acquisitions of goods related to the management of the corona crisis. And here, in fact, the argument is that these domestic and EU producers of protective equipment should be treated on an equal footing with non-EU producers. As regards them, the Commission has previously decided to exempt the importation of these goods into the territory from tax for the period 30 January to 31 July. In other words, this proposal corrects the non-neutral tax treatment resulting from the Commission decision and the provisions on VAT. This is, in itself, a good proposal, and this has been supported in the committee's expert hearings, and the committee says that we are in favour of this proposal, we are in favour of it, and we say that we consider the delimitation that has been made here to be correct and in accordance with the guidance given by the Commission. So much of this restriction was discussed that we had to make such a round of questions, a round of verification as to the Commission's interpretation of these specific limits. According to the information received from the Commission, private operators providing public health services, such as the total outsourcing of municipal health services, could be comparable to other public law bodies referred to by the Commission. In other words, this would apply to these cases, but the Commission's view is that this exemption does not cover private health care provided by private operators. So here is the delimitation, and it was made clear that this is precisely the interpretation of the Commission, and this government proposal is in line with that of the Commission. The committee does not therefore consider it possible to extend this scope of duty-free as requested by some experts. In other words, we say in committee that it is important that Customs and the Tax Administration take care of comprehensive and timely guidance and customer advice, and we stress the need to monitor this, that is, if the deadlines for imports from outside the EU change, then surely this bill will be extended here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u6	Mr President! The Christian Democrats and the Coalition Party have objected to this, and we think it is for a reason, because at the moment many other EU Member States have imposed this zero rate or reduced rate on these protective equipment and other anti-corona items and, for example, in the Netherlands, the sale of masks to individuals has also been exempted, since we in Finland have not even had this sale to a private individual in a debate, but, indeed, only sold to social workers. In that sense, the government's demarcation that this is intended only for healthcare operators on the public side does seem very ideological. If you look at these other countries, there are at least Italy, Austria, Estonia and Ireland, which have allowed a zero rate, and in addition there are reduced rates in Belgium, France, Greece, Poland and Portugal, and they do not make any distinction between private and public service providers. In that sense, it seems rather strange that Finland has ended up with this type of demarcation. In view of the different ways in which these services are organised in the various Member States, the Commission has deliberately left this power of control to the Member States in this regard, and this application of the zero rate to the actors in the health and health care and social care sectors, which are subject to extensive public control, is certainly a precise measure of the economy, which is able to support these actors in a very targeted way and to combat this pandemic together. If we look at the situation in Finland too, we have municipalities with partial outsourcing, and we have municipalities that are involved in such co-operation efforts, I can only imagine in that sense what the amount of bureaucracy is when afterwards we start to see who has had the responsibilities of purchasing in these matters and whether some protective equipment has now been used for what has been done. We have a lot of municipalities where, for example, housing units for the mentally disabled or care units for the elderly have been arranged either as part-outsourcing or through cooperation companies. I therefore hope that, while we go into the detail of the paragraphs here, there will be an understanding in Parliament to support this motion by the Christian Democrats and the Assembly that there will be no difference in whether or not the player is a public person.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u7	Madam President! In many ways the government has handled this corona epidemic very well. Today, too, we should thank you for being in such a good situation. But throughout the spring, it has been surprising how clammy the government’s attitude has been to involve private health service providers, as it were, in this joint effort. And whether it is a question of extending the testing capacity or, for example, of how these protective equipment has been supplied to health service providers, private service providers have constantly been forced to stand up for themselves. And in this respect too, I would like to see a representative: I would point out in a little more detail why, then, in these other EU countries, which are listed on a long list in that objection, it has been equally possible to set this reduced zero tax rate for private health care producers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u8	Madam President! It's an excellent presentation from the government. It may be a little difficult to understand the group and the Christian. As we said in the tax section, the Commission's position is clear. However, the exemption does not cover private health care provided by private operators, and therefore the committee does not consider it possible to extend the proposed exemption to private operators. However, by way of exception, the coalition would be prepared to violate the Commission's position, because it has been considered unfair that the proposal only concerns public health care, whether it is produced by public or private bodies. Apparently, the meeting has heard the sound of the field when Lasse, Laura and Joonas have expressed their views on the common interest. It would be interesting to know whether the coalition is serious and, if it were in the government itself, whether it would really be prepared to defy the Commission or its own lobbyists and voters in such a matter. And it is a little strange that Christians have gone along with this. As they themselves say, in other countries the private and public sector border is not the same and the responsibility for organising is not the same. I think it is all right that in Finland this position of the Commission has been taken into account as it has been said.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u9	Madam President! I am not a member of the Tax Section, but when I listened to this debate and what was going on with the state funds today, it is easy to agree with this point raised by the President of the Tax Section on this point that this would only apply to the public sector. What Mr Saramo said, there are different systems in the EU countries. There private responsibilities in some areas are considerably greater than public responsibilities, and here is this range of time. Of course, this is now aimed at making our own preparations in Europe and, above all, in Finland, and that is how we are going to support those who are going to prepare for the fact that VAT does not have to be paid for that period, but it remains to be seen. Very short is this time when it is until the end of July. I was thinking about how to do it, but on the other hand, you could put it on fire and in this way we could improve our security of supply in this epidemic. Asian countries have played an important role in this, above all in terms of protective equipment. That is a very good question as to whether we are going to fight against the Commission's position. I have heard it once said here that if you go to the Commission to ask, you will get the answer you want, but I assume that this has not been the case in this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u10	Then there is Chairman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u11	Mr President! It is true that this interpretation is certainly what we wanted to follow. It must be borne in mind that this is, in itself, a tax subsidy of EUR 7 million for private health companies, specifically for these individuals when they target public service production. And this demarcation of the Commission, which has been verified there, is particularly true of those cases which are excluded, where this private production would go to private services. This is a question of public services, even if this tax subsidy goes to private operators, it is precisely these health waste that goes to 7 million in this case. It must be borne in mind that this is not a formal business subsidy proposal, but this particular proposal has been made in order to prevent unfair competition in situations where these supplies come from outside the EU, that is to say, these domestic and intra-EU acquisitions are also intended to make their tax treatment fair, and that is all in all what is at stake in this proposal. Perhaps you get the wrong impression when you talk about ideological choices and that this is not about private ones, because it is precisely the private ones who are affected.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u12	Madam President! First of all, it is noteworthy what this objection by the KD and the Assembly points out that the setting of a zero rate is already in principle contrary to this directive, but when there is such a state of emergency, [Quick Five] When it is also considered where the supporters of the buzzards are — it is said that those who have done the total outsourcing will receive this zero tax rate, i.e. when private business has taken over the entire municipal health service, then there is ‘likely to have been able to achieve this’. However,there is a treatment centre for people withdevelopmentaldisability,which perhaps some self-employedman would like to bring about Magicians have a service institution for young people,where local entrepreneurs,manytime-over-the-counter entrepreneurs,these small care homes,so‘no,they do not
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u13	Mr President! In this case, these alleged ideological spectacles can be found in the EU Commission and also in the Finnish Ministry of Finance's Tax Department. That's where these interpretations are made. Of course, in any case, when this aid is limited to the management of the interest rate, this limit has to be drawn, because these equipment will certainly also be used for other purposes than the treatment of the interest rate, and these situations are not covered by this exemption. In other words, the worst bureaucracy comes from the fact that, in any case, this will have to be followed, and if you want to be completely anti-bureaucratic, of course you would not even want to support such a proposal. I think it is logical to support this and to say that it is precisely domestic and intra-EU situations that are equal to those from outside the EU. There's the steak.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u14	Mr President! In short, I would have merely specified that the old-age service institution or any private operator who produces the public welfare service available to all, the municipal service, is involved. That is not involved in that completely private activity, and I do not understand why that is what Christians want to support in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u15	Madam President! Mr Essayah here very well illustrated how these small, often quite female-dominated companies have been left out of the drop-off position. Instead, through this mechanism, the items where these total outsourcing has taken place since the large companies have been included. However, in general terms, I would like to say that, although this is where the criticism is now being made of these companies which have fallen into the middle of the day, this proposal is, after all, a very good one. And it is very important that in many ways we try to ensure that domestic purchases, for example in relation to testing equipment and protective materials, are supported and encouraged. Hopefully we will not be facing the second wave in the autumn, but if it does, it is very important that we be able to take care of our own security of supply, especially in Finland, but also in the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u16	Mr President! I would like to raise one more issue of this kind of non-neutrality. Consider occupational health care: After all, we have many municipalities where occupational health care is run in connection with the health centre, and that is the health care provided by a public operator. Then we have private occupational health care. If we think we have a sick person, then whether it is up to the employer or not, what kind of tax treatment has been the subject of, for example, the equipment used in his testing. In my opinion, this sort of demarcation, which the government has done here, makes this even more bureaucratic and difficult. Mr Viitanen is quite right when he said that, in any case, we are going to have to split hair when we consider whether this is precisely what is meant for the treatment of the corona, because it is quite clear that these protective fairs and different coats and the like are also, to a large extent, the normal equipment that is needed in nursing homes. Perhaps, then, mainly, one can say that hardly such visors other than corona are approached by patients, that it is likely to be this kind of speciality — except that now I have heard about such dental units, for example, that it has been considered that actually they will be introduced in the future quite permanently, because it has been discovered that it is extremely good, and indeed when you think that in dental work there are teeth and spatters, so it protects much better than the protective equipment that has been developed so far. Yes these issues of neutrality within this proposal there are, and they are still being added to this government proposal, but just as Mrs Räsänen said, overall, of course, this is now extremely important and this is how it should be done. This proposal, by the way, has to be supported by you, but there was no point in creating such ideological divisions within it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u17	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 10/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Mr Viitanen, President of the Tax Section, presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u18	Madam President! This is indeed a question of the division of corporation tax. This is one measure whereby, in these difficult times, the state supports municipalities beyond the corona crisis, and this is, of course, a very important proposal in itself. In this respect, the share of municipalities in corporate tax revenue would be increased by 10 percentage points, from 32.13% to 42.13%, and then the share of the State would be reduced accordingly. This is an important whole for municipalities and, overall, corporate tax revenues for municipalities will transfer over EUR 500 million in all. Of course, the impact of this proposal on individual municipalities varies mainly according to the proportion of municipal tax revenue that is made up of corporation tax and, of course, those with the greatest importance of corporate tax benefit most from this particular proposal, but also the highest losses in these municipalities. The committee notes that it considers this model to be justified. According to the committee, this compensates in the right way for the reduction in municipal tax revenues. In the expert consultation, inter alia, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has supported this and has advocated a way in which a significant part of the State aid package is allocated through corporation tax, since the impact of the corona virus pandemic on corporate tax revenue is proportionally the greatest. Yes, one must remember that there are many ways in which municipalities are supported. This corporate tax division is one, then the future state transfers, will be discretionary support and will also be supported by the medical districts, which is one part of this important package. The committee's report also states that this corporate tax revenue, calculated on the basis of the increase in the share of corporation tax, will be taken into account in the subsequent tax-based adjustment of state contributions. We have also noted here, President, that it is not appropriate, at this stage, for the committee to take a closer look at the distributions of individual municipalities. Their review needs will be assessed at a later stage. The Committee considers it important for the Government to monitor the development of local government finances and changes in the tax revenues of individual municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u19	Madam President! Just as Mr Viitanen said, this is one part of the so-called municipal package and you need more than 400 million for this year and about 100 million for the next year. Indeed, there was a debate in the committee about this, and there was still a little regret today that it was not enough time to spend more time on this and perhaps ask for a wider consultation on how the municipalities are now experiencing this situation and its acute impact, because if we think that 56% of this amount is going to be spent, that is about 300 million for the ten largest Finnish municipalities, and the three largest municipalities in Uusimaa alone are going to sign for 220 million of this, then the remaining remains in the other municipalities of Finland. In that sense, it is very important that this increase in the share of the total corporation tax should be covered by the normal state contribution balance, but it will then take two years and then, of course, the problem that these cost burdens in the municipality are here and now and that the money in some municipalities will almost be exhausted. In that sense, it is still necessary to monitor the situation in the municipalities and how the local government finances are developing, and also the changes in the total tax revenue of their individual municipalities, and in that sense I am quite pleased that a record was received here that a fixed-term increase in the share of municipal corporation tax does not therefore give rise to an examination at this stage of the distribution shares of individual municipalities but rather an assessment of their need for revision. It was also pointed out in that committee that it is possible that, when this compensation is made through the state shares of basic services, it may then be thought that these compensations occur in such a way that, for someone in this situation, the money given may become overcompensated, as it were, and for a municipality, undercompensation. We heard such second hand information that someone was somewhere counting these things with some kind of gauge. All in all, it has to be said that the system of compensation for the central government shares of the municipalities is so complex that, in fact, we in this Parliament would need such a course for all of us in Parliament, so that we could somehow get to grips with how all of this is going to happen. While this is still a matter of corporate tax revenue, in which, in principle, the seat of the Community, such as the company, and then the offices and the number of employees, and the tax revenue generated there, is quite a bull's-eye when you go into the question of how to balance it, and when it is brought into the system of compensation, it is said in the sense that there will probably not be such a courageous representative who would say that this is the right sum for our municipality. That is why I hope that, if necessary, we will come back to this later and see. However, the need for municipalities is high and they need their tax revenues there as soon as possible to cover their expenditure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u20	Mr President! As a result of the effects of the coronavirus pandemic, the State is directing financial support to municipalities on a number of routes. In the past, we have been talking here about replacing tax deferrals due to tax arrangements with EUR 550 million for municipalities. It has already been dealt with, and now we have this EUR 1.4 billion package, which is targeting state aid to medical districts because the interest rate has resulted in additional costs and there has been a certain idleness in medical districts as a result of the postponement of urgent care. Then there is also an increase in the central government share of basic services, there is also a certain increase in the discretionary central government share, and then there is this increase in the distribution of municipal corporation tax to this year, where the State renounces its corporate tax share to the benefit of municipalities by 10 percentage points. It is clear, of course, that such a formulad solution will not achieve exactly the right result, but as has been said here, and it has also been stated in the committee's report, that this will then be taken into account in the subsequent adjustment of state subsidies if and when certain municipalities are now getting a little too much and some others too little. After all, the only way to do this is to implement a formula-like solution. In any case, it is clear that, as a whole, this goes to the right municipalities, that is to say to those who have lost corporate tax revenue. In that sense, the proposal is quite the right line, and one can defend it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u21	Madam President! At one time, we also have a city-chamree who estimates the tax revenue of municipalities in its own formula and taught us delegates, or at least the members of the board of directors, that, and it was a fairly long formula overall with which the tax revenue was assessed. Today they come from estimates made by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. This big pot, 1.4 billion for municipalities, has already been mentioned here, and some of it goes to the medical districts, which are certainly an important part of getting this funding for the costs that this interest has caused. This proportion of municipalities here is defined by percentages and increased by that 10 percentage points, i.e. a comprehensive review conducted. It is quite clear that it does not target all municipalities on an equal footing, because we have different municipalities: there are service-intensive municipalities where the service sector is dominated and then there are industrialists, and at the moment industry has bled, at least until today, very well, and the losses have not been significant. The loss of large cities is clearly visible in terms of tax revenues. The loss of tax revenue in my own municipality is, now I am not quite sure whether it was only EUR 3 million for two months or three months. So even though the larger industry is no longer so much, there are other players, but the interest rate has not yet been able to work that way. For some this may be a good income and for others a loss, but everyone here is now getting that it is not lost money, on the contrary it is coming to the municipality that you cannot count that you have now received less. What the President of the Tax Section said in that regard will probably have to look at this tax revenue from municipalities in the autumn and then evaluate it in the budget for the following year. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u22	Madam President! This proposal is also to be welcomed. The municipalities have become financially tight during the corona epidemic, and this is one part of the support that is indeed necessary for the municipalities. In that sense, it is very good that this fixed-term increase in the share of corporation tax should be provided. Well, the fact that the majority of this goes to large cities is a surprise to the municipalities, which is 56 percent of this goes to the ten largest cities without this equalisation of state subsidies. Well, this report states that this corporate tax revenue calculated on the basis of the increase in the share will be taken into account in the subsequent tax-based adjustment of state contributions, which will then come as compensation for municipalities in two years' time, and these revision needs will be assessed later. I am sure that this proposal has been made quite quickly and has also been dealt with quickly in committee. The only question that arises outside the committee is whether it would have been a good idea to raise these to a very high level, so that this would also be clear, that these need for revisions will actually be assessed later — now it is mainly in this part of the text. At the same time, it must be noted that this measure alone will not save municipalities from this distress, that is, other measures are needed to ensure that municipalities also cope with future care and care burdens and the care and care debt they have accumulated during this period and, of course, with all their other statutory tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u23	Madam President! In Finland, the municipalities of Uusimaa strongly support the rest of the country, now and in the future. Next year, huge amounts of tax revenue will be generated from municipalities in Uusimaa to the rest of the country, and that is right. We have aging municipalities, there are situations all over the country that cannot be seen that even in the future they will be able to cope with their own income. But now it is a matter of Parliament and municipalities demanding compensation for the loss of interest for municipalities. Those who lose will. It is not intended to make general subsidies for the whole of Finland, but to try to compensate for the losses caused by this crisis, and they are far from covering all those losses. For example, my own municipality, Vantaa: We have an airport, we have huge hotels, we have unemployment from 8% to over 20%. We have both the tax revenues paid by employees and corporate taxes paid by companies collapsed, and this support, which is now coming from the state, is unfortunately not going to save Vantaa. In Uusimaa, Espoo, when viewed at group level, has the most heavily indebted municipality in Finland. Vantaa's debt is also high. It cannot be thought that, even in this situation, these subsidies would be allocated on some other basis than what the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has demanded and what the Parliament has called for. And I think it is great that the government has been able to detach so much money to the municipalities, to support the worst affected municipalities, and I hope that this line will also be followed up. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u24	Madam President! I believe that many municipalities outside the capital region can manage independently, but that is a completely different place to talk. For this fixed-term increase in the share of corporation tax: I very much welcome this government proposal, and I would argue that it has been possible, in a timely manner, to bring to the municipalities the measures that we have called for as a result of this difficult situation of interest rate derogations. This is part of this EUR 1.4 billion municipal package, which has already been raised in this debate. With regard to corporate tax revenue, I very much welcome the development of recent years in the direction that corporation tax is now divided into those where the employees of companies are. This makes it possible for this corporation tax to be distributed in a slightly more equitable way than it would go only to one address if the company operates in several locations. These corporate tax revenues have been lost in particular by those municipalities which have suffered large losses in respect of companies and employees through layoffs and so on, and, as was mentioned in the previous speech, on the other hand, the tax revenue losses of their municipalities are also the biggest in terms of corporate tax losses in this situation of interest, so it is clear that to some extent this increase in the share of corporation tax is directed specifically to the localities where the companies are located. I don't think this is that big a disproportion. But even so, I would see that we would return to this at the time, as the Minister for Finance has said, that, at the beginning of the autumn, we will focus on this big picture and look again at the economic situation of the municipalities and how it could still be helped through Parliament, and I feel that there is a need to look more closely at how these corporate incomes have then been targeted and to take possible corrective measures if this is required. I consider this government proposal to be a good one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u25	Madam President! Thank you to Mr Viitanen, the President of the Chamber, for this detailed presentation. Of course, the whole local government sector has unfortunately been in severe deficit for years. Of course, these measures proposed by the government and decided by Parliament are now visible, although this year, although the local government's financial position will be slightly strengthened, it will remain in a relatively heavy deficit, which means that there will still be a lot of work to be done for the coming years. In any case, I believe that these proposed measures, as well as this change in the share of the corporation tax in this situation, are justified. Madam Speaker! This division of corporation tax has been used as a tool in the past, for example, as one of the tools of the so-called compensation of 100 % for new municipal tasks when the state, the parliament, has imposed new tasks on municipalities, and then, as has also been pointed out here in the committee's report, the importance of corporation tax in terms of tax revenues varies according to the local economic structure and, in part, also the geographical location of the municipality, and these differences in terms of municipalities are large, as has also been pointed out here by colleagues. Madam Speaker! I consider this proposal to be justified precisely because it is precisely because it is now intended to compensate for the loss of income caused by this corona crisis. Similarly, this proposal will be taken into account later in the tax compensation system, although it will come afterwards, as Mr Essayah well said. In any case, it should be taken into account in its entirety. This is, of course, the case that it is certainly justified that we have a sort of equalisation system. For example, my own hometown, Rauma, also pays for this equalisation. In other words, when we are a very heavily industrialized region, then we too have had relatively high corporate tax revenues. Of course, in recent years they have deteriorated slightly, but it also shows these differences between municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u26	Madam President! That is exactly why I had to ask for the floor when Mr Saramo's speech snapped in the ear. He said that the municipalities of Uusimaa support him. — Well, of course, it can be considered where the different value added in Finland is, where are the forests, where are the fields, where are the raw materials in food production, and where is the support coming from and in which direction? If you think of the largest employer in my own municipality, Valiota, there is the largest milk processing plant in the Nordic countries, which takes milk powder to Asia, takes to Africa, takes it all over the world, and these offices in Valio can be found in Seinäjoki, Joensuu, Lapland, but then its head office, it happens to be in that Pitäjänmäki in Helsinki. There's not a single cow in Pittäjänmäki. There are some workers there, and yet here. A pretty large part of Valio's corporate tax revenue will then go to Helsinki because the head office and the employees there will be here. Yes, I am saying that Valio's real value added will come from the regions around Finland, and that is why I personally think that this equalisation system is not an aid for the poor or a charitable system between the municipalities of Finland, but it is really what we want to develop the whole country on an equal footing, and yet here, at least for a large part of us, hopefully, is the idea in this Chamber that we want the whole country to stay inhabited and the whole country to be moving forward, so there is no reason for this kind of confrontation and the idea that now, somehow, Uusimaa is running around the rest of Finland. It is equally possible to think that there would suddenly be hunger here if we were to stop, for example, passing on raw materials for food production to and from the food industry. In that sense, Finland as a whole will be kept in good condition, and therefore this equalisation is important in the system of central government transfers and should be considered. I believe that at the point when this mess comes back to this house and starts talking about county tax and other things, please help me, which equalization system will have to be considered. I am sure there will continue to be enough of this different transfer of tax revenue, depending on how complex the models we are then moving forward from this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u27	Mr President! At the end of the day, it was of course a good thing that this whole package of municipal support came in spring. In fact, this figure, this 1.4 billion overall, was even slightly higher than anticipated, but it certainly does not remove the fact, President, that it is still too small in terms of the huge losses in the municipalities. I also think it is important to say in Parliament, in this House, that we certainly all attach great importance to the fact that, in practice, the government has already said that it is going to rediscover these issues and that it will return to them in the autumn. I believe that everyone in our municipality of residence, in the home town, this autumn is also expected, so to speak, with an eye to the fact that whatever support measures come from there, but it was extremely important that this whole package of aid should come to this point. I'm sure these messages from this house to the government are clear. There is this commitment. As such,it might well have been possible to put someone’s statement in the style of ‘return in autumn’,but I believe thatin this case it had been more than necessary to verify,becausein any case it should be,and I believe thatin this But, as I said, Mr President, it is quite impossible for us to think that we are going to have to do this as a matter of urgency when we have to do these measures, to define each of the criteria for the division of corporation tax, and that is why, in accordance with the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, the committee has also recorded that this is a good way to go, and when there was a great deal of support there too, I can be confident that this will go just fine from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u28	Madam President! As I said, it is right that money should be transferred with the equalisation system now and in the future. That is how I started and I really think, and it is precisely because I do not understand the contradiction that is now being made that the interest subsidies should be allocated on some grounds other than the interest rate criteria, that now the big cities or Uusimaa are getting too much. We are talking about corona, we are not talking about regional equalisation policy or otherwise regional policy. That is what I would correct, as Mr Kempp well said, that today, after all, corporate tax is no longer distributed according to their headquarters, but according to the value added of what is being done where it is being done, and this is good. So there have been a lot of good speeches here, and we do not disagree with them, and now I would like to see the will of Parliament and the municipalities being carried out, that the cost of interest is being reimbursed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u29	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 11/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Mr Viitanen, Chairman of the Tax Division.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u30	Madam President! This is a so-called maturity-free loan, i.e. this proposal proposes that a loan to a majority state-owned company or an associated state company could be granted in order to ensure a financial position without a binding maturity date for the borrower, provided that this is expressly permitted in the budget. We, as a committee, say that this is a very necessary proposal overall. This change will provide additional opportunities for strengthening the financial position of state-owned companies and associated companies. In our own report, we also state that this indemnification in itself always requires Parliament's decision in connection with the budgetary procedure and, therefore, the committee believes that this provision also guarantees Parliament's financial and budgetary powers in the right way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u31	Mr President! Indeed, in that committee, this issue was taken forward quite quickly and only then was the Department of Finance asked to clarify the way in which this type of loan should be recorded when it comes to the accounts of either a state company or a state-owned partnership. It was stated that it depends on whether an international IFRS is used or whether the transformer is used, and then on the other hand it was pointed out that it is irrelevant to the position of minority shareholders, for example. With regard to the fact that we received this report there, the matter was taken forward. Of course, this is quite a new opening in this sector, if you could say so. This is the type of loan we have not had in the equipment, but it is interesting now to see what purposes it will be needed for, and Parliament must of course require decisions to be taken, as has been said in this report, that Parliament will take these decisions and will always be able to keep track of what it means to the state's financial situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u32	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, SIVM 8/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u33	Mr President! After all, this proposal goes through the fact that, now that the infectious disease situation can be addressed on the education side in accordance with the Act on communicable diseases, we need to make changes to the Basic Education Act, among other things. Under the Act on communicable diseases, the authorities have the power to close schools and educational establishments, for example, and to impose restrictions on gatherings. That is why, if we are to be able to uphold fundamental rights, we need to make changes to the Basic Education Act, and this is really for this corona epidemic situation. The Government's proposal introduces a temporary amendment to the Basic Education Act to ensure that the student's right to education is realised, even though schools and other teaching facilities are partially or completely closed under the Act on communicable diseases. The aim of the proposal is to help slow down the spread of coronavirus infections and infections by reducing contacts between pupils and teaching and other staff, while at the same time safeguarding the right to basic education in the event of an infectious disease. The government's proposal will enable the development of the corona epidemic to be responded to by the organiser. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs stresses that there is neither clear information nor a definite forecast on the duration and development of the corona epidemic. In the coming autumn, local education in basic education may have to be limited due to the epidemic situation, and under the Act on communicable diseases, students, classes or schools may also have to be quarantined. However, even in these circumstances, teaching must continue as normally as possible, albeit by exceptional means, and these exceptional arrangements for teaching must be based on law. The Education Committee stresses the primacy of local education and the dependence of possible exceptional arrangements on regional or local decision-making to restrict activities under the Act on Contagion. We have also received an opinion on this from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and it is included in this annex. But a few words about the committee's view, such as taking the child's perspective into account. The committee considers that the government's proposal has carried out an in-depth assessment of the impact on children and the impact on fundamental rights. In particular, the proposal considers the right of the child to education, to the best possible health status and to a safe learning environment. It is positive that the proposal has examined the experiences and consequences of the special education arrangements. The Committee considers it essential that the Ministry of Education and Culture carry out monitoring of the effects of the corona situation on the well-being and learning of children in the future. The limitation of the rights of the child must be precise, purpose-related and of as short duration as possible with regard to the objective to be achieved. The proposal has well considered the different regulatory options and identified the best way to safeguard the child’s right to education and health if the corona virus situation worsens again. The committee stresses the need to ensure that the grounds for limitation provided for by the law are not used as a basis for any further restriction in the future. The Education Committee stresses the importance of explaining children's views and draws attention to the fact that children's views have been omitted from this government proposal. According to the proposal, the assessment of children’s opinions has been omitted due to an urgent timetable — as stated on page 10. However, the preparation of the proposal has been carried out by a number of other bodies, such as representative organisations. It is therefore assumed that it would have been possible to consult children on this matter of fundamental concern to their daily lives, and that it would also have been very important to take account of the impact of the proposal. The committee considers that the urgency is not a valid reason to ignore the opinion of children and to overshadow the views of adults. The right of the child to have his or her views taken into account is one of the general principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In its general comment No 23, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child specifically stated that States Parties should ask for the views of children at local and national level on all aspects of education policy. In this context, the committee draws attention to the provision on the inclusion of pupils in the Basic Education Act, which should be taken into account in the preparation of possible decisions by the organiser of education. According to the above provision, the organiser of education must, inter alia, consult the student body of the school before taking decisions which have a material impact on the status of pupils. In the Government's proposal, pages 8-9 highlight the results of a study by the University of Turku, according to which the pupils' experiences of teaching during the period of exception are mainly good. Based on the study, students have experienced the greatest impact on learning and well-being during the spring 2020 distance education by the connection they have had with their teacher. This supports the view that the school’s social relations play an important role in learning, learning motivation and well-being. According to a survey conducted with parents, the experience of distance learning has been particularly influenced by the teacher’s contact with the student and with the parents. According to the survey, several students have experienced inadequate support for their well-being. A strong cross-cutting obligation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is to treat children equally. The proposed legislative amendment may lead to a situation in which the right of children to receive education is not achieved on an equal footing. According to the expert opinion, according to the information received during the last spring exceptional circumstances, education was not actually carried out on an equal footing, but there have been differences in education arrangements between municipalities, schools and even teachers. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses the specific requirements arising from the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The provisions of Article 9 of the Convention on accessibility and accessibility also apply to the provision of teaching by means of distance connections. Accessibility and accessibility mean ensuring equal access to different facilities and services, such as the physical environment, transport, information and communication for disabled people. According to Article 9 of the Convention, barriers to accessibility should be identified and removed in schools. Education must therefore be accessible and accessible to pupils with disabilities within the meaning of the Convention. There is a position here on the rights of people with disabilities anyway, and the Committee on Culture agrees with these comments by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs stresses that the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is also in force under exceptional circumstances. According to the information received, visits to student care, i.e. school psychologists and school curators, as well as to student health care, took place significantly less during the exceptional period than under normal conditions and there were also variations in the availability of services. The Committee stresses that the need for education services is emphasised during distance learning, for example for vulnerable pupils, and that they should not be reduced or made more difficult to access when decisions are taken on the transition to distance education. Student care can help reduce the mental burden of distance learning, support the regularity and structures of daily life, prevent school drop-outs and thus contribute to reducing the risk of exclusion. They're also taking a stand on the school dinner. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also drew attention to this. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers it desirable and necessary for the legislation to make clear the student's right to a free daily school meal. For coercive reasons, it can be considered acceptable that food cannot be provided to people in remote education because of the risk of infection. On the other hand, there is insufficient justification in the proposal for deviations from the fullness of the meal for those in distance education. A situation where not all municipalities offer school meals cannot be considered acceptable. Here, however, we say that the Committee on Education considers it important that the organiser of education should decide, according to his own overall purpose assessment, how free meals for pupils in accordance with the Basic Education Act are to be carried out in practice. Here, in our report, we are also talking about pupils who are excluded from the scope — as they have been defined here — and then we have also had a review of the restrictions and educational arrangements on the individual student. It is worth reading this report very carefully. There are a lot of different items that have been considered. Of course, it is also important to note that during exceptional circumstances it has become clear that some of the students could not be reached at all, and that is what we consider to be a very serious matter and that we take care of it. Let us hope that in future care will be taken to ensure that, in the future, all children and young people will be achieved, in a possible future situation. After all, we made a small stilistic amendment to section 20a to this first draft law, but otherwise we propose that this law be adopted. At the same time, I would like to thank all these people who have produced a great deal of information on this report and on the draft law, so that the law can be implemented in the light of security considerations, but also of fundamental rights. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u34	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Ministry of Education and Culture for this government proposal. It is wonderful to act in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media when the proposals are brought before us in such a way that they are well prepared. I picked up one sentence from the Constitutional Committee’s opinion here: ‘However,the Constitutional Affairs Committee draws attention to the fact that Article16(1) of the Constitution does not require a specific way of implementing basic education and does not require a Here is a very good observation that although distance education has also been associated with challenges in terms of equality during the corona period, distance learning is not necessarily a fundamental right limit. This attention is therefore a good basis for this development of distance education, which will continue to be the case in the future. All in all, I am delighted that according to a study by the University of Turku, for example, distance learning situations have been widely experienced as positive and good practices have started to be born in such things as digitalized, distance learning situations that have been jumped in one night. But it must also be mentioned that the importance of the teacher has been highlighted. It has been seen that the teacher plays an important role in how children have learned and in what kind of practices have been done in class situations. As a teacher, I dare to say that mere written tasks are not the basis for learning, and these situations have also been found in places around Finland with the corona. The importance of the family has also been emphasised, which is worth noting that there is not always a situation where the school is in close contact with the family, and in such a situation, as this government proposal also suggests, it should be seamless. Overall, attention should be paid to monitoring and assessment of effects on children. It is obvious that we must not only follow this past situation, but also study it further, but also examine the remote education situations that come through the impact assessment of children and make even better use of it in the future. There is no way to give up the services of education in a distance education situation, we have written this very hard on the committee's opinions, nor can we give up the warm food, we must take care of it. But, for example, long distances in Finland, in those municipalities where distances are long, this government proposal allows me to believe that food, for example, can be delivered on Monday and thus reduce these transport rates if the child is in distance education. This proposal
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u35	Mr President! The principals and teachers of primary schools, the entire school staff, did a great job of jumping quickly to remote education and almost as quickly back to contact teaching. We owe them a great debt of gratitude. We learned a lot for the fall and for the future. Now that the emergency conditions have ended, we will continue to live with the corona and prepare for a possible second wave through normal legislation. We are now acting on the basis of the Act on communicable diseases and the Basic Education Act, and the latter is being changed on a temporary basis. The law would enter into force at the beginning of August and would be in force over Christmas, i.e. the end of the year. When restricting fundamental rights and making such periodic legislative changes, it is important that the period is clearly limited and is not as long as it is in case. If there is a need to continue the law, it should be seen at the end of the autumn when we know what the disease situation is in our country. Now that this law is temporarily amended to prevent the spread of the disease and to mitigate the disadvantages and ensure the safe provision of education, it is good to remember that every child has the right to receive basic education at all times, and, as our chairman, a representative. Mr Risikko pointed out that the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities are in force under all kinds of circumstances, and this has also been taken into account in the opinion of the Committee on Culture. Since the disease situation is different across Finland and may also be so in the autumn when school starts, it is necessary that regional and local solutions can be made. The same groups are excluded from these derogations as they are now in the spring, and the criteria of these groups were assessed in a comprehensive manner on the basis of spring experience. There are small children, pupils with special support, students with extended compulsory education and preparatory education. This is justified. However, the Education Committee draws attention to the fact that the student has the right to student care and education support also during these conditions. We cannot compromise on that either in the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u36	Mr President! This government proposal introduces a temporary amendment to the Basic Education Act to ensure that the student’s right to receive education is realised even if schools have to be closed in part or in full under the Act on Diseases in the autumn. We cannot know the epidemic situation in the autumn, and this bill allows for situational and regional decisions. The application of exceptional teaching arrangements excludes pre-school education and basic education from 1 to 3. pupils in the annual classes and, for example, pupils in special support. In addition to this, it is also worth highlighting this consideration of the individual needs of older children. For some children, distance learning is very difficult and failure can easily lead to the risk of exclusion. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has produced a very good report, and I would like to highlight just a few of the points raised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: The Act of Preparedness gave the organisers of education a great deal of discretion in providing basic education and support, and this also led to problems in terms of equality. In practice, the arrangements were very different between municipalities and even between schools and teachers, and the learning support services received by the student depended entirely on the municipality in which the family lived. During the preparatory act, the obligation for education organisers to organise, among other things, the provision of education support and student care in accordance with the Basic Education Act was limited. In its own opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stressed that this provision deviated from the subjective right to basic education free of charge. In particular, the lack of support for learning and individual attention made it difficult for many pupils to achieve learning objectives during distance learning. Not all families had the opportunity to support the learning and learning of children in the same way, and as a result, children were placed in an unequal position. Lessons need to be learnt from these mistakes, and in the future care must be taken to ensure that students' opportunities for interaction and progress in learning are guaranteed on an equal footing. On the other hand, like the Committee on Culture, I would like to stress that this draft law is not an experiment but an exceptional arrangement, which I hope will have to be used as little as possible. In all circumstances, however, the student's right to education must be guaranteed on the basis of the curriculum. Support for learning must not be reduced, even if the methods of its implementation have to be applied. In fact, many pupils need more support in distance education than in normal learning situations. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also drew attention to the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, namely the need to ensure accessibility and accessibility, and this also means providing for reasonable adjustments. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that we now need to allocate resources to help children and young people, because much of them have had a hard time with corona. A rapid timetable is now needed to address the inequalities between children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u37	Mr. Speaker! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for your presentation. In the course of this spring, the heads of civil education, principals, teachers, school assistants and other school staff have been at their extremes because of this corona situation, and I personally welcome the fact that the Ministry has now brought a proposal to Parliament through the Government to clarify the teaching arrangements for exceptional circumstances and also to highlight certain issues. I very much welcome what has also been said in this debate about the right of children to learning, to support services, to them, as it were, within the framework of the organisation of education. Also as a former employee of OKM when I have been running these things before, I understand that they have also raised a lot of challenges in the field. In this respect, I think the proposal is very much to be welcomed, and I would like to emphasise that the proposal has, however, been made in very exceptional situations and yet the starting point is that basic education will continue to be organised as local education in the future, unless there is now a change in this pandemic situation. Mr. Speaker! At the very end of this theme, I could say more broadly that now that I have had a lot of discussions with teachers and civil society managers in my own country, in Satakunta, I would also like to highlight the important information and guidance that the Finnish National Board of Education, for example, gives to the field, because the staff of the upper secondary schools in particular have given feedback that many times these guidelines have been built as it were, it is said, on the basis of the activities of the primary school classes, and it has been felt that, in certain respects, the guidance given, could be clarified. I think this is a good place to bring this up, too, because this spring went on to deal with this acute crisis and put out fires, but especially now that you members of the Committee on Education are also having a debate with the National Board of Education and, from there too, when their officials are being heard, I also think it is good to point out that OPH is also going through its own activities and checking and considering how this guidance has worked in the field, because they too have been under a lot of pressure to work on spring, and I think that all the work that has been done in the past is justified in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u38	Mr President! This government proposal is necessary — now that we are giving up the stand-by law — so that, if necessary, amendments to the Basic Education Act can be made to distance education, and this is being made possible by a fixed-term change in the law. This is where the committee has done an excellent job. Thank you to the chairman of the committee, Mr Risiko, who presented the report. There has been a great deal of emphasis on the experience already gained in this short term in distance education, and on the other hand on the points of correction that are needed. For example, the report has made good mention of these student care services, school meals and also access to support for learning, which was little, could you say, in an unequal situation in different municipalities around Finland? They were interpreted in a few different ways, and in some municipalities things were simply neglected. In that sense, paying attention to these issues in this report is of the utmost importance. Of course, the fact that this local education right still exists in these cases between 1 and 3. It is also important for pupils in the grades of years, especially those in need of support, in the area of extended compulsory education and also in the case of persons preparing for basic education. Mr President! Now that we are likely to move towards more normal conditions, it is important to make such a legislative change so that we can then, under ordinary law, return to remote education if necessary. Of course, everyone here hopes that this need will not come, but that we will then be able to continue schooling through local education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u39	Mr President! It is very good that the government has brought this proposal and the committee has produced a very good report on this. Experiences of distance education during the spring may have been good but quite varied on the other hand, i.e. we have had the group of vulnerable children who have not even been contacted and who have suffered from this distance education. Some parents have been very burdened with this remote education situation, perhaps they themselves have had to work at a distance and at the same time have had to hand-direct even small schoolchildren in those remote education situations, and for some teachers too this has been very stressful. It is good that these experiences have been gathered and learnt from, and this fixed-term bill still needs to exist. I myself wonder that this bill will be in force until the end of the year, which is certainly very appropriate in this situation, particularly in view of the possible second wave of the corona epidemic, but it is possible that an epidemic other than the corona may at some later stage cause the need for exceptional arrangements, and it is therefore worth considering whether it would be necessary for us to have this kind of law on a permanent basis if the need arises. I would like to raise the issue of school dinner in this report. I think it is very important to stick to the principle of free school dinner, which belongs to all children, not just the poor. In this period of distance teaching, the municipalities were doing very different things. Some municipalities even had the opportunity to eat, some distributed these food bags to all, either several times a week or once a week, and then had municipalities where no food was provided, and in some municipalities the food bags were distributed only to low - income students, which was felt to be very stigmatizing. I think it is important that we take a clear position here that free school meals are simply a right,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u40	Mr President! I will also take a little more from the teacher’s point of view of this report, as we have said here: ‘The expert’s opinion shows that the teaching period has been well burdened with teachers. The load has been caused especially by the growing need for individual guidance among pupils. The expert consultation has highlighted the real educational interaction between teachers and pupils. According to the follow-up data of the distance learning period, one in five teachers estimated that the tools available could not provide real-time distance learning with the majority of pupils. Teaching using distance learning is guided by the curriculum and the school's working hours and annual plan, so that absenteeism from teaching is followed in the normal way. The tools used in basic education must be free of charge for pupils and the organiser must therefore ensure that pupils have the necessary tools for their activities in distance learning. According to the proposal, the suitability of this form of education must be assessed according to the student’s age and conditions. According to the expert’s assessment, the teaching arrangements whereby the student’s teaching is reduced to written, independent tasks do not satisfy the student’s right to receive education. On the basis of the expert opinion received, the Committee on Education also points out that the Basic Education Act does not know about independent studies. This is why it is important that the Finnish National Board of Education, within its remit, specify in its instructions that the student-teacher interaction in distance learning can be different and that the teaching can be an independent study of the student. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers it important that any future exceptional arrangements ensure in every way the equal rights of pupils to interaction with the teacher in order to promote learning. According to the Government's proposal, the Ministry of Education and Culture has identified the need for a more comprehensive assessment of the need for a provision that is valid for an indefinite period for crisis situations and disturbances and special situations in normal conditions. The change in legislation requires cooperation between several administrative sectors and a broader assessment of the need for a change of law. The Education Committee supports the implementation of the evaluation referred to in the Board’s proposal.” — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u41	Mr President! This proposal by the government that I support to make the Basic Education Act possible for distance learning is of a fixed-term nature, until the end of the year. It is linked to infectious diseases and is only possible for a continuous period of two months. However, for some children, this distance education has been a better solution according to their own words and has given them a new opportunity to learn and also new skills, and I therefore believe that Mr Räsänen's question as to whether there should also be some more permanent solution to allow distance learning is timely at this point and not until December when we start to reflect on this issue after the government's proposal has expired. In fact, I have already made a legal initiative on a more permanent solution such as this, which has already been signed by 22 MPs, and in it the idea is to go on the basis of this government proposal, a good government proposal, but to go on to a more permanent form so that this distance learning could be possible in situations such as communicable diseases, including situations where there is a family member at home whose situation prevents a child from studying, such as cancer or something like that, or if the teacher's situation is such that a teacher cannot go into a classroom situation, then distance teaching could be done on the basis of it. Or, outside of infectious disease situations, this bill would allow, for example, in joint custody situations, in some cases, when the child’s best interests would require it, through the provision of support education or in other such situations where it would be justified in the best interests of the child to have a child in remote education rather than in local education — this initiative would enable it. However, I see that the primary form of education must always be local education, and then, on a case-by-case basis, we should consider the situations when it is better for an individual, an individual child, to be in a distance education situation and thus to improve learning outcomes or that equality, for example, is better achieved when he or she is in distance education. As far as I can see, a more permanent solution like this would also improve the child’s legal security. After all, even the current legislation has made these distance learning situations, but when it is not clearly enshrined in the law, there is also a lot of room for interpretation, and thus there is a very big role for the providers of education in the situations in which distance learning can be achieved. In terms of the child’s legal protection, a more permanent decision should certainly be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u42	Mr President! This possibility of derogation is important and necessary. Now that we have heard a great deal about the effects of this distance learning period from the spring experience, this extensive report from the Committee on Education and Culture has emerged. As has already been said here, distance learning has been experienced in different ways. Some of the children who need special support have also experienced a better time because the groups have been smaller and the bullying has been fewer. When we get back to normal, it's good to get back to these things too. We must not accept bullying in schools in any form. The Education Committee also drew attention to the fact that the amount of contact the teacher has had with the students has affected the well-being of children. We had at hand a report from Karvin, the National Assessment Centre, describing the fact that pupils in basic education are less skilled if they have special needs for support, linguistic or learning difficulties, or if they were born at the end of the year or if, from the point of view of education, the child is in a socio-economically lower group. We also heard the news from Child Services. Difficulties in schooling are one of the sources of stress behind custody. It is therefore extremely valuable that the fourth amending budget also allocated funds to basic education to deal with this corrosive effects and support measures that should also be provided, the student care, student care, assistance, guidance and special education — it will also be needed in the autumn, no matter where we are. Then I would like to say a few more words about that food issue. That was a bit of a situation this spring, and the guidelines developed little. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also drew attention to the fact that, overall, guidelines for the autumn too
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u43	Mr President! Schools have done a historic digital leap during the spring, and it would be desirable for these accumulated capacities to be exploited even after the epidemic and, of course, especially in the event that this epidemic situation continues to require it in the autumn. In this debate, attention has been drawn to the fact that, although these negative experiences have been experienced, some learners have certainly felt that they have benefited particularly from this distance education. They have been better able to focus on and make progress in teaching. In that sense, this bill and the opening-up of the debate by Mr Kemp is indeed necessary, and it is indeed worth seriously considering that there are other situations in which the best interests of the child would require that these means of distance education be made available to him if necessary. And, indeed, Mr President, it should be noted that during this spring we have seen how individual, how different schoolchildren are and also how different their family backgrounds are, and these things should indeed be taken into account, whether it is a matter of local education or distance education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-95.u44	Mr President! I have just presented the report, and a few words about it in the sense that there is a great deal here, just as everyone else has done here, correlates with how from home, how parents, loved ones support, and also that what kind of tools are available and what is the teacher's ability to help and support and how much resources he has for it. So, in that sense, these things correlate with it, but this is something to be clarified. Then I will say to that what Mr Räsänen and Mr Kempp raised. The committee's report also states that it is now clear whether or not it should also be taken as a little longer-term and, I might say, as an opportunity to use distance learning also in situations where it is appropriate and necessary, strictly limited. I myself have taken a position on it and put a written question on it, and I have suggested that it should be extended to the Basic Education Act, because basic education is not currently familiar with distance education. Vocational education knows but not really basic education. Now we must always remember that, as Mr Kempp has rightly said, of course, the priority is local education, but there may be situations in which the child's right is only coming true, and only in such a way that we can take care of it at a distance. These include rare languages. When there are small groups, there is no alternative but through distance education. Then there are just such cases of bullying. There are also situations of anxiety in young people and children, and it is better to be there at a distance. These are just the situations. Distance learning must by no means continue to be a source of savings, but in situations where it enables the rights of the child to be managed and ensured better than in close proximity education, I think it would be very important to bring about such a change in the law that this can be arranged in the future. Of course, this will also require training, this will require training for teachers, this will require equipment, and then it will also be a matter of teacher training. It is great that the Committee on Education and Rural Development itself had an excellent debate on this subject and we are quite in agreement — or, let us say, not quite far, but we were all in agreement. — — — — Thank you very much.
