ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 4/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should be repealed. In this context, the debate will also be allowed on the agenda 4. on the subject. Mr Ojala-Niemelä, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee. — At the same time, he also presents the fourth point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u2	Yes, and now in a new form, Mr President, from this place. — — — — The Constitutional Committee has been assessed by a Government decree under Article 88 of the Emergency Act on the right of the municipality to derogate from the time limits for urgent care of health care and assessments of the need for social care services. In accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution and Article 10 of the Emergency Act, such regulations on the application of the Emergency Act should be referred to Parliament and the Parliament will decide whether the Regulations should be repealed. According to the Emergency Act, the condition that the municipality can waive the time limits laid down in the Health Care Act in order to organise emergency care is that it is necessary to provide emergency care and that the patient’s health is not compromised by the time limit. This provision, as well as the more precise provisions contained in the implementing regulation, is likely to ensure that the patient’s health is not compromised by exceeding the time limit. According to Article 3 of the Decree, the municipality may waive the assessment of the service needs referred to in Article 36 of the Social Welfare Act, except for the assessment of the need for urgent assistance in such a way as to ensure the necessary subsistence and care of the person. Ensuring the necessary livelihood and care, which is a direct consequence of Article 19(1) of the Constitution, is an important limitation on the waiving of service needs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs draws attention to the fact that, in this regard, the better solution for regulatory proportionality would be to abandon only certain deadlines than to assess the need for services as such. However, the fact that the Regulation is limited to a relatively short period of time is also relevant to the proportionality of the regulation. The Constitutional Committee also emphasises Article 23 of the Constitution and Article 4 of the Emergency Act. The principles of necessity and proportionality arising from the Treaty. In addition, the relevant requirement arising from Article 4(2) of the Emergency Act is that powers under the Emergency Act can only be exercised if the situation is not manageable by the regular powers of the authorities. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also stressed the importance of rapid and practical guidance provided by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Regional State Administrative Agencies. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health also drew attention to the same issue. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore proposes that the Government decree on the right of the municipality to derogate from the time limits for urgent care of health care and assessments of the need for social care services should not be repealed. In this context, I would also like to highlight the following point: The Constitutional Committee has been assessed by a Government Decree under Sections 93 and 94 of the Emergency Act on annual holidays, rest periods and overtime restrictions within the meaning of the Act on Working Time and termination periods within the meaning of the Employment Contracts Act. The Decree was adopted pursuant to Articles 93 and 94 of the Emergency Act. Article 93 of the Emergency Act The provisions on the conditions of service and Articles 3 and 4 of the Act on Preparedness, as well as Articles 3 and 4 of the Decree on the Adoption of the Government provide the basis for the implementing regulation to be assessed. In accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution and Article 10 of the Emergency Act, such regulations on the application of the Emergency Act should be submitted to Parliament. Parliament decides whether the regulations should be repealed. According to the memorandum of reasons in the implementing regulation, the Regulation seeks to contribute to ensuring an adequate number of employees during an outbreak of the virus. In accordance with Articles 2(2) and 3(3) of the implementing Regulation, the measures are to be taken only if they are necessary in the light of an epidemic of corona virus. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is not sufficiently clear from this wording that the purpose of the changes is precisely to ensure the adequate functioning of health care and other key functions of society during a pandemic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that Article 23 of the Constitution imposes a requirement for exceptions to fundamental rights. The committee also drew attention to Article 4 of the Emergency Act, which states that the powers of the law can only be exercised in ways that are necessary to achieve the purpose of the law and in proportion to the objective pursued by the exercise of the power to act. The intervention in the annual leave and working hours of the employee must therefore be sufficiently justified in each case in the light of Article 4 of the Emergency Act. Article 93 of the Emergency Act and Articles 2 and 3 of the Implementing Regulation limit measures to the protection of occupational safety and the health of the worker. These provisions contribute to the fulfilment of the obligation on public authorities under Article 18(1) of the Constitution to ensure the protection of the labour force. Article 4 of the implementing regulation to provide for an extension of the notice The application of this provision is conditional on the need to extend the period of notice in the interests of the health, minimum income and safety of the population. Such a limited and justified extension of the notice period may be considered as satisfying the requirement of proportionality. The Constitutional Committee also emphasises Article 23 of the Constitution and Article 4 of the Emergency Act. The principles of necessity and proportionality arising from the Treaty. Furthermore, the relevant requirement in Article 4(2) of the Emergency Act is that powers under the Emergency Act can only be exercised if the situation is not manageable by the regular powers of the authorities. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore proposes that, for the purposes of applying the Government Regulation on temporary derogations, certain provisions of the annual holiday law, the Working Time Act and the Employment Contracts Act are not repealed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u3	In this normal debate, the speeches will therefore be used from their own place, which means that there is no longer any difference between 7 minutes and 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u4	Mr President! When Mr Ojala-Niemelä, chairman of the Constitutional Committee, opened the two reports of the Constitutional Committee well here on the substance, I would like to say, mainly on these issues, that when the Council of State, together with the President of the Republic, stated the circumstances of the exceptional situation and, as a result, the Government brought in to Parliament the so-called implementing regulation, which introduced certain powers of the Emergency Act, Parliament had the opportunity, in part or in full, to repeal those regulations, but yesterday Parliament unanimously decided to deal with them, and it was very valuable that, in this difficult situation, this Chamber was able unanimously to deal with and decide on these matters. Now we are dealing with the more detailed regulations introduced on the basis of that implementing regulation, which is referred to in Article 10 of the Emergency Act. regulate and they come to Parliament for a so-called ex post check, so that, according to the Emergency Act, Parliament can either repeal them or leave them in force. With regard to both the regulations now before us, the Constitutional Committee has assessed their content and suggests that they can be left in force, i.e. that they should not be repealed. In this case too, the committee has been able to make a proposal unanimously, a report here in plenary, and I would like to point out here, without opening up more of that content, because the chairman of the committee has opened it up to me that it is extremely important for these issues to be able to reach unanimous decisions both within the committees and then in this plenary. These are deemed necessary and necessary in this particular situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u5	Mr President! Here Mr Salmon and Mr Ojala-Niemela have already opened up the substance of this matter in greater detail. When discussing this, it is, of course, important to keep in mind that the services we are talking about here are essential to the realisation of human rights and fundamental rights, and now the Emergency Act is opening up powers as if restricting people's access to certain non-essential services, and it is of course worth being very specific here. Decision-making and therefore the responsibility for respecting and weighing human and fundamental rights lies in the hands of those trained professionals who then decide in the municipalities, which is the right way to act, the most effective way to prioritise action, first of all to deal with this epidemic of coronavirus, but also to guarantee basic and human rights, particularly for vulnerable people — children over 75 years of age, severely disabled, children in need of child protection. This is something that the committee particularly draws attention to in its report, because it is indeed the case that the Emergency Act is based on Finland's international human rights obligations. We will never let them go, especially in the case of these vulnerable groups. For example, the Convention on the Rights of the Child does not know the state of the world in which children's rights could be waived. On the contrary, it has been stated separately that the rights of children must be upheld even during a state of war, a state of emergency, in other circumstances such as this. That is why I really want to wish the strength and the careful consideration of all the workers in our municipalities who are now facing the difficult consideration of how best and most effective it is to safeguard the fundamental and human rights of all, when, during the pandemic, there is always the fundamental human rights, the right to life, at stake. I really think that it is in those municipalities that there is certainly a great deal of experience of this kind of weighing in the past, but now, in the case of the Emergency Act, that responsibility will only become even more important. Then we will be even wiser, we will know more about how we can then prepare for future crises. Now that for the first time the Act on Preparedness is being used, we are all at the forefront of a new situation. As has already been said in the discussions, it is particularly important here to seek out the principles of precedent, the precedents, the best ways of getting through this together and actually ensuring that fundamental and human rights are realised. As a specific point, I think it is worth pointing out in paragraph 7 of the report by the Committee, which states that, even in social services, where it gives the authority to postpone the evaluation of the need for services altogether, it would be more appropriate to waive the time limit for assessing the need for services, but always insist that the need for services should be assessed, because only at that point can it be established that there is an urgent need for services, that there is a real need for a child, for example, to be subjected to violence, that an elderly person may remain in a situation where he is at risk that a person who is severely disabled really needs support and assistance without which he cannot survive at home. Now that more and more of these risk groups have to stay at home, it is particularly important to pay attention to this. That is why it is a good thing that it has been stated in this unanimous report and has now been communicated to the municipalities. I believe that, together, this will move forward in a way that is consistent with the fundamental and human rights of all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u6	Mr President! In Finland, there has never been unnecessary social and health care services before. On the contrary, for the last 20 years we have been trying to ensure that our social and health services are as appropriate and effective as possible. This has even been pursued with such enthusiasm that there are significant service gaps already in the normal situation. This means that it cannot be thought that we are going to extract something extra from social and health services from elsewhere without any consequences. I'm sure it is. In these essential services for people's daily lives and well-being, the fact that we are reducing from somewhere else means that it has consequences, and probably means that it has serious consequences and consequences that we cannot assess from here. This approach places a great deal of responsibility on the applicator, now that this regulation is to be used. There are clear restrictions that the applicationer must take into account, such as international human rights obligations, and then more discretionary restrictions, such as the requirement of necessity, which includes, among other things, the need to rely primarily on other powers and the powers of the preparedness law that are only to be used in the last instance. The committee's report also contains specific clarifications to support this discretion of the applicator. For example, the assessments of the service needs of the Social Welfare Act referred to by Mrs Suomela can be abandoned or reduced only if the necessary livelihood and care can be secured as required by the Constitution. Personally, I do not believe that service needs assessments can only go to urgent cases, because it is often impossible to see when an emergency situation is involved if that service needs assessment is not carried out. An assessment of the need for services is, after all, the point where it is decided what kind of service this person may need, whether it is urgent or less urgent. The second regulation under discussion today will allow for some changes to the working conditions in order to safeguard the capacity of critical sectors. Like the previous one, this is certainly necessary but gives a lot of responsibility to those who have to make decisions on the basis of it. Deteriorations in terms of working conditions are clearly understandable in this situation, especially when they are set in short-term and temporary terms, but when they are used from the outset, account must be taken of the fact that it is very likely that all of this will not be over by 13 April, but that we will have various further regulations at hand after that. This is why, from the outset, we must take care of the workers' survival with a very special degree of seriousness. This is not the kind of crisis that may have been used to, for example, in the health sector, where the crisis is over in two weeks. In the worst case scenario, we'll be hanging out here for months, and people will have to keep up the whole trip. This requires that we look not only at the general guidelines and frameworks, but also at the individual level, that people are given sufficient training, especially when tasks change, and that, while we are trying to deal with this crisis, we seriously consider how, when it comes to the next wave of the corona or possibly another epidemic: how our system will face it at that point, and whether we will now be able to make some changes which will perhaps not be necessary next time for us to have a preparedness law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u7	Mr President! On 16 March, exceptional conditions have been identified in Finland because of the corona virus. An exceptional situation and a situation requiring preparedness is a particularly serious major accident or a widespread infectious disease. The Government has not considered the means of the Act on Contagion and other legislation to be sufficient, which is why the Act on Preparedness has been adopted. This includes these regulations, one of which is the right of the municipality to derogate from the time limits for urgent care of health care and assessments of the need for social care services. The purpose of this is to ensure the adequacy of staff in this epidemic situation, and that is the background. Of course, it is important that these deadlines are dropped. Now this regulation is only valid for about a month, and I believe that this is how it will be done. However, if this situation continues, special attention must be paid to this matter. However, in non-urgent patients, there are often those who need it more urgently, or the situation gets worse during the waiting period. That is why it is really important that attention be paid to the assessment of the need for treatment and, in any case, it is done for everyone. In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we have pointed out that it is important that patients, if necessary, also seek treatment for non-communicable diseases. The other diseases have not disappeared. They continue to exist as before, and the assessment of the need for treatment is highlighted here and its systematic and unbroken use. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also drawn attention to the need for adequate guidance on the direction of the Ministry and the Regional State Administrative Agency. The second thing that was on the agenda here was that the committee had an amendment to the Social Welfare Act on the assessment of the need for services. This is a very important issue because it is often a question of vulnerable populations and often affects children, the disabled, the elderly and a lot of other groups. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the necessary income and care is always ensured. And just as Mr Kontula has pointed out here, this often means, in practice, that some sort of assessment of the need for services must be made. It is difficult to assess what is urgent and urgent if there is no such assessment. But, of course, there is much less urgent under the Social Welfare Act, which will then facilitate the work of the staff in this context. In any case, the work of social services will grow during the crisis, and much of their work will be needed elsewhere. Then I would like to say a few words about this working time law, about the exceptions to the annual leave law, the working time law and the provisions of the employment contract law. In this respect, too, the aim is to ensure the adequacy of staff in this epidemic situation. However, particular attention must be paid to the fact that the staff are able to carry out their work: not having to take too long shifts or shifts without having to take a few days off, because this epidemic is likely to last for a long time, and if the staff are run out of time, then they will not be in the reserve at that later stage. So here I am emphasising well-being at work, good management and good allocation of resources in a sensible way to different places.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u8	Mr President! First of all, this has already happened, with this adoption regulation, this is already in use in the municipalities, and we are here as we were in the ex post verification phase in this respect. This regulation, which concerned the Health Care Act and the Social Welfare Act, was indeed the subject of an opinion in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and yesterday we briefly heard experts from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and today we made such a concise statement, the content of which was already reviewed by the Vice-President of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. I would like to stress that, firstly, these changes, which are being made on a temporary basis, are indeed temporary and do not give free hands, so to speak, and this opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has sought to take into account those aspects which will be in the process of being limited. For example, with regard to the Health Care Act, although there are many of these deadlines, there are different deadlines, I would like to point out that, despite them, it is necessary to respect the fact that this assessment of the need for care is always carried out in primary health care on the third working day at the latest, and in urgent special care, the assessment of the need for treatment must be started within three weeks of the arrival of the referral. In other words, an assessment of the need for treatment must be carried out; it cannot be omitted under any circumstances. Then, of course, this point, which has already been raised before, is that this regulation should not only give rise to the notion that corona cases are being treated, but also other diseases other than communicable diseases should continue to be treated so that people do not take this in such a way that they do not have access to treatment at this point. As far as this social welfare law and the assessment of the need for services are concerned, it is of course particularly important for these vulnerable groups, and in this opinion we have also sought to highlight them, that is, of course there are over 75-year-olds overall, then those who are in the area of disability and receive the highest level of care support, and then children who need special support, their needs for services. We stress these grounds that the powers of exceptional circumstances should also be exercised in a very prudent manner in these areas, and the capacity that we will certainly have when there is a shortage of staff will be used in these more serious cases in particular. And that is why, when this emergency law situation and these regulations are so exceptional, this also needs to be monitored particularly closely to ensure that the rights of vulnerable groups are realised. I also noticed that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had also included in its own report the need for guidance from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and from the Regional State Administrative Agencies on how to do this in practice, and after we had held a committee meeting, I noticed that Kirsi Varhila, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, also informed the public that it was intended to give uniform instructions and models to the municipalities on how to put this regulation into practice, and that is certainly more than necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u9	Mr President! Here the chairman and vice-president of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have already said a great deal about the importance of keeping this non-urgent treatment in action, as far as possible. I would imagine, as a layman, that at least these spiritual aspects are those that are also highlighted in this crisis, on the one hand, because there are major changes in people's daily lives concerning the elderly, on the other hand, children, the situation of families, and, on the other hand, because – which I am sure has been very important to all of us this week – that there are so many people who are concerned about their own livelihoods, whether or not I still have a job after this crisis. There will be questions of this kind which have, of course, been answered very well through the social partners and also through government measures, and there will be new measures tomorrow, but I am nevertheless afraid and I think I am right that the need for mental health services will increase, not decrease, during this process, and it is also a good thing to take account of that. Mr President! However, I asked for this speech because the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities also dealt today with these points relating to the amendments to the annual holiday law and to the provisions on working time and rest periods in these key areas, in particular the social and health sectors, emergency services, the police and the rescue services. The committee also unanimously concluded that, in this situation, it is necessary to secure the availability of staff, and the European Union's working time directive and the ILO agreements, on the one hand, make it possible, in this situation, for both holidays, overtime and then working and rest periods to be reduced in order to secure this availability of labour. However, I would like to say what has already been said here, for example, by Mrs Laiho's speech, that we must, however, be very concerned about the survival of this key staff. That is the key point, and that is also what the committee stresses in its opinion. So if this key personnel cannot cope with that daily routine, then we will not win this fight against the corona. Of course, it is wise to listen to individuals at an individual level, because adjusting to such a situation is different from one person to another, and some of the key people themselves may be at risk. In other words, it is very important that staff management in this situation too will be successful — although it is necessary to allow these exceptional rights to go beyond normal labour law in order to ensure that there are enough workers in the sectors that are now at the heart of this fight against the ribbon and protecting the health of citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u10	Mr President! The Government Decree on the right of the municipality to derogate from the deadlines for urgent care of health care and assessments of the need for social care services is very necessary and very appropriate at this time. It should be remembered that the Finnish health system is able to adapt. It is not in any way in crisis. Of course we have a shortage of personnel in some municipalities. We know that there is definitely a shortage of doctors and specialist groups in some municipalities, such as specialist nurses, nurses, and local nurses, in some areas too. In this regard, attention must now be paid to the fact that the government in these areas is making sure that we get the workforce there by some miracle that the situation of the people is not going to be quite impossible. It is clear that municipalities take this issue very seriously and every single municipality in Finland at the moment is certainly thinking full-time and even during a little overtime about how to get this serious situation under control and all the services that they need. I will only pay attention to two things. The committee stresses that the starting point of the Emergency Act is that the powers of exceptional circumstances can only be exercised in ways that are necessary to achieve the purpose of the law and in proportion to the objective pursued in the exercise of the power to act. In other words, although these non-urgent treatments are postponed and assessments according to the need for social care services are postponed, this does not mean that these people are left behind — not in any case, but that a little less urgent things can be done when the situation calms down, and that is not going to happen for very long. But it is important to remember that all people are being treated and, of course, there is no reason for panic. And then another thing: Finland is a large country with its surface area, we have different environments where people live. In rural areas there are long distances, and here in large Helsinki and the capital region in general and in larger cities people often live in the middle of loneliness — all of the rush, all of the people in loneliness. Yes, social and health care must take care of it now, and home care must be careful to ensure that no person is left alone with their problems, under no circumstances. I know that in my own municipality home care works well, and every person is certainly visited many times during the day and evening and even in the morning to see how the person is doing. What is important is that this is the same practice, no matter what the corner of Finland, all people are well cared for and, above all, no one is excluded from this good care area. Now that the Minister is here, I ask: what has been the attitude towards this issue in the Ministry? This is serious when Finland is, as I said, a big country and different conditions in different localities. How is it ensured in this difficult situation when a person is alone, such as a visit to a store that is difficult for an older person? Well, I'm sure the municipalities will find a solution to that, but how will this be handled in health care?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u11	Mr President! The abandonment of urgent care from the path of the corona virus epidemic is a very big issue, unlike the school's side, where, despite all the difficulties, we are able to move to remote education. We do not know that there will be special new resource needs on the school side to the extent that in health care, and the same staff will not have to be transferred to treat the corona virus, such as in health care. This is a very big question: how do we secure the urgent and other necessary care during the corona epidemic? Hospitals, too, have only a limited proportion of the treatment that can genuinely be called non-emergency. The right of people, for example, to proper cancer treatments and other really necessary medical interventions during this epidemic must be safeguarded. Now I would have asked Minister Kiuru about the fact that the whole of Europe changed its strategy quite quickly, as information on the spread of the corona epidemic increased. At first, it was thought that perhaps with good health care capacity we could cope with a larger number of infections. Very quickly, we discovered that this is not possible to the extent that was initially thought of, and the impression emerged that it was important to bring the epidemic to an end as quickly as possible, and that the epidemic should of course be brought to an end and slowed down better when it is seized in time, as the World Health Organisation has also recommended and urged by all means. Is it now a strategy that, in Finland too, we want as little infection as possible through all human resources at the outset and then hope that corona medicine will develop? There have been some preliminary promising news about them. Of course, the second and biggest way out of this crisis may be to develop a vaccine. Now, of course, estimates of that schedule for the vaccine are not very warm at the moment, but science is sometimes amazing, and we hope that we can get the vaccine as soon as possible. Now that we look at comparisons with Asia, many Asian countries have done better than Italy or Spain, for example, in controlling the corona epidemic. It has introduced a few different methods depending on the country. There has been extensive testing capacity, there has also obviously been knowledge and knowledge through human positioning and its use, which has also been able to tell a person if he has been potentially exposed and has been close to such a person and is able to take a corona test. In other words, this very fast isolation, testing has been a means in some countries. Well, then, in some countries it is reported that the widespread use of respirators would also be one of the means they have in place. Well, now China is clearly saying very little or hardly any more of these new infections. How can we get in the way of these few Asian countries if that is the objective? Nor do we want to unduly test our capacity for intensive care or our capacity for special care, and we also need to prepare for the worst possible scenario. That is why it is good to stress that there must be a certain amount of caution in all our assessments. I would also have asked about the fact that today the Helsingin Sanomat wrote that THL estimates differed somewhat from these international estimates. What is the basis of our figures now? Of course, I believe that the best efforts have been made and that the strategy has now been changed quite quickly, but is this reflected in all our measures? And are we sure that we have double-checked all the figures now that we will not have to say in a few days' time that these figures should have been corrected in some way and, for example, today we should have instructed ski resorts to close their doors, because now, of course, people are concerned about this news. We have the opening of the shopping center and ski slopes open and we now know from these European examples that the epidemic has spread widely also from such ski resorts and even from one slope bar. Of course, it may even put people's sense of justice to the test that if some keep children at home and children cannot take part in education, on the other hand, some other activities of society will continue, which will obviously also be at risk of infection. But the most interesting thing is this clarification of the Finnish strategy, whether it is as little infection as possible, as effective as possible and then as much testing capacity as possible, and possibly new means, medicines, vaccines that are now being developed. It is really great that such new ideas have emerged in order to resolve this crisis. At least this weekend there will be a Hack the Crisis event, which has apparently started off from entrepreneurs and start-ups, and is now involved in the TEMs and other actors very actively, i.e. this kind of participatory way, which in our politics may not always be the main way of action, is now the mainstream, which fortunately, however, has started to move strongly. Involve all potential actors to come up with new solutions to the job losses of the corona epidemic and to the new areas that we still want to achieve after this crisis. But what about the health situation picture: do we now have sufficient inclusive and sufficient international research data in place?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u12	Minister Kiuru wishes to respond directly to this speech, but you can also answer the questions raised earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u13	President! Thank you for the opportunity to comment. This goes to the heart of the corona debate, but I thought that the answer to Mrs Holopainen's questions will come clearly to the whole Chamber. The starting point in Finland is precisely that we have done everything in our power to prepare for this epidemic in the first phase of trying to slow down the outbreak. This has been done precisely at the outset, so that when a person has been infected, the affected circle around him has been subjected to quarantine and the infected person itself has been directed into isolation. This work, which was done in Finland, has been more successful than, for example, international crises, which have already hit many countries at a very early stage in which these isolation measures have not taken the wind. Now, in the last week, we knew that at any moment we would be in the Helsinki and Uusimaa regions in a situation where these traditional restrictive measures would no longer bite. That is why the government prepared in good time that, when these isolation measures would no longer work, i.e. not all the transmission chains would be able to back up, then we will in practice move on to the fact that the interest rate will no longer be controlled in these transmission chains if it cannot be resolved. Before that happened, we moved on to preparing for the next stage. At that time, the Government was prepared to adopt all the measures that could be taken at the next stage at Government level. This is how the package was completed on Thursday, and the significance of its restrictive measures has already been identified in the calculations produced by THL, where it is scientifically possible to look for the surface of how much human contact and thus the potential for infection have been reduced. In this respect, the measures taken last week have already begun to bite in the right direction. It's also on the street, as we can see. People have been taking a tip over the past weekend. When a parliamentary agreement was reached that we could actually introduce even tougher measures, then it was possible to discuss precisely the introduction of this emergency law. We have prepared it in the past, of course, and we are prepared for that threat, so that these measures to ensure the carrying capacity of social and health care and to provide care for all Finns under all circumstances will certainly be implemented. In this regard, the line is very clear: the isolation measures, the very restrictive measures, must be continued so that we can stick to what we are trying to do here. Reducing contact is the best way to protect against the epidemic. When society as a whole does it, all of us centrally, each of us keeps our contacts to a minimum, because it is precisely the fact that the peak of the epidemic is beginning to fade clearly, and this will, of course, ensure, first and foremost, that we have healthy and capable people in the industry to do these tasks, which will be tough over the next few weeks. At the same time, it will also ensure that this disease can be slowed down, so there is a guarantee that we will have the capacity for health care, which then means bedplaces, which means intensive care resources. With the current forecasts, we would be aware that these restrictive measures are being dismantled so that this can be guaranteed, and Parliament has been working here day and night so that we can also give the field the assurance that the tools are in place, that this can be done. That is why it is important that this reduction in contact, rapid isolation, the slowing down of the disease and the additional measures that we have taken today as other restrictive measures already last week and, in fact, as Government policies on Monday, and the subsequent treatment of the Emergency Act and its regulations throughout this week are part of the whole package in which we have set out to slow down this peak of disease on the road to our ability to carry social welfare and health care will never be met. This requires a great deal from the people, it requires a great deal from us as decision-makers, but we also have to believe that it makes more sense not to take the worst out of our eyes, and here we are doing everything we can to ensure that the regulations we are dealing with give us the opportunity to do so. I will comment on these individual questions later, but I think that there has been an excellent debate here about the fact that it is not a question of social and health care being in a situation where there are too few deadlines. On the contrary, I have been trying to improve the time limits in the way the government has set them, specifically in basic health care, access to doctors in seven days and so on. But now we are living in such exceptional times and these exceptional circumstances also require us to see what is the most acute need. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has made very good and commendable remarks, precisely that these instruments, which are coming into use, should only be used in the extreme case when they are really needed to achieve the goal to be pursued. In this respect, when the situation is very exceptional, this will ensure the capacity of social and health care. This is a very demanding habit. I believe that many people who have long been waiting for urgent surgery, for example, will be disappointed many more times if that surgery is transferred precisely because the intensive care capacity could be introduced when the team that normally manages these demanding surgeries is also suitable as trained staff to undertake intensive care if an acute need arises. It must therefore be said that we, as a nation, and in particular the social and health professionals, as a large group, will have to stretch to a completely different kind of sphere because this state of will was now formed in this Parliament, too, so that all these possible instruments would be available. Let's use them wisely, very prudently,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u14	I will not open a wider debate now, but a question for Mr Essayah, which is one minute long.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u15	Thank you, Mr President. We have just received a message that hospital districts tell us that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has banned the number of people in intensive care, and THL is considering its own guidelines. I also drew attention to the fact that this morning the Minister did not want to answer the question of how many breathing machines there are in Finland. Now I would like to know why this line is being drawn up and whether it has been carried out under political guidance or whether the officials have thus instructed the medical districts, namely, in such a situation, people have a great need for timely and transparent information. We must not move on to any North Korean line in this communication, but it is precisely that transparency that is needed. I believe that citizens will be much better able to be calm in this crisis when we know what is going on, and in that sense I hope that the Minister will settle the matter — if he does not know what is behind it now — and bring this matter to the attention of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u16	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u17	Mr President! Thank you for this lunch. I had no idea that such a straightforward order had been issued. We have a meeting tomorrow with myself. I have asked all medical districts and those working at the basic level who can participate in contact, tomorrow at the Skype meeting, so that we can deal with future ways of organising this entire production. In that respect, this opportunity is not until tomorrow. Today and since then, we have thought of having a debate before the entire nation precisely because those guidelines do not just come to the field of activity, but all people are allowed to participate in this debate. That is what we have decided this morning, but I have not had time to be in the ministry since that morning, so I do not know what has happened this afternoon. But what is important in this debate is that today, at the Prime Minister's briefing, we discussed precisely the situation of those over 70 years of age, the picture of the disease and the overall picture of how this
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u18	And now back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u19	Mr President! In Finland, every effort must now be made to equalise the disease peak caused by the corona virus, so that health care can bear the burden of the epidemic, just as Minister Kiuru said. In many countries, the capacity of health care has been critically strained. In Finland, we can reduce serious diseases most effectively by protecting the risk groups and the elderly from infection, in particular by protecting the risk groups that are particularly vulnerable to serious symptoms of the disease, and that is precisely what we are doing now. I very much hope that these recommendations will be followed up, and if you could prefer to say "rules" in the nation. In Finland, I believe that the preparedness for an epidemic caused by the corona virus is quite good, as good as it has been possible in this time frame at all. Of course, preparations have been made since the outbreak in China began. Thus, in health care, capacity will be increased in both the public and private sectors. Of course, this means more manpower, facilities and equipment. Capacity from the private sector will also be mobilised if necessary. At the same time, therefore, there will be a reduction in the number of non-urgent activities, and that is precisely what this regulation is all about. The purpose of the Regulation is to release social and health care resources for the treatment of people with corona infection, other urgent care and the assessment of direct social services. Just as Mr Vehviläinen said in his previous speech, there are other serious threats and serious diseases than the corona, which must also be treated. President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore unanimously proposes that the Government's regulation should not be repealed after it has already been adopted. However, the committee makes important comments, as we heard in the chairman's speech. For example, it draws attention to Article 4 of the Emergency Act, which states that the powers of the law can only be exercised in ways that are necessary to achieve the purpose of the law and in proportion to the objective pursued. President! The content of this regulation is one of the forces by which we fight the corona virus. Like many representatives, I am concerned about the urgency assessments carried out by this regulation, which are understandablely difficult. In the big picture, however, I trust the expertise of health professionals and strong professionalism.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u20	Mr President! My speech has gone through this debate a couple of times. I am not going to talk about the general fight against corona infection, I have briefly spoken about it yesterday and the other day. I shall now focus on this very regulation, which is going to make this limitation in order to relax the laws and regulations governing care without haste, so that resources can be concentrated on this emergency care. But just a moment ago, there was a debate on intensive care facilities and their numbers. I received this in the same way only to hear that something had been said about it or this, and you heard the Minister's answers, and he had not heard it either. But the situation in Finland is that we currently have just over 300 intensive care places. It's been published in public. South Karelia Central Hospital has 6, HUS has 120 and so on. Then we have a couple hundred power control stations, it's a little lighter, and then we still have about 200 other control stations. Now the hospital districts have moved to full capacity, including HUS today, which is the first time that hospitals have moved to full capacity. During my decades in the service of the health system, this never happened. The increased readiness, which is the lesser degree, was used a few times, but not once. It changes the management system of the hospital, introduces maximum capacity for sick people, changes a great many practical things. I was thinking of starting this speech by saying that Parliament will legislate in this case, will perform a supervisory function in relation to this implementing regulation, and the service system will be responsible for its operational activities. After all, there is no new issue in Finland for hospitals and health centres about how to place emphasis on urgent care or urgent care in different situations. In due course, we have been through a five - month medical strike, which meant that virtually no urgent treatment had to be stopped altogether. We've had Tehy's strike twice. In autumn 2007, under the threat of dismissal, this unsolicited treatment was driven down. This is something they know about there in health care. I want to make a little realism now, however, so that we in this Parliament can understand what these laws and regulations mean in practice: If we take a large on-call central hospital, while the central hospitals are the backbone of our public health care, then 60 percent of the hospital’s activities are actually on call, where the time lag is from one second to four hours when the patient’s treatment begins. Then half or 20% of the remaining 40%, or 20% of the total capacity, is urgent treatment, involving, for example, new cancers, which need to be started within two weeks, and then we have the urgent treatment. I once made a list of how, for example, the largest hospital organisation in our country, HUS, out of EUR 2000 million, will spend that money on different diseases. The most expensive disease, for which most resources were used, was schizophrenia. Then came some other mental disorders. After that came six different cancers: there came breast cancer, there became prostate cancer, intestinal cancer and so on. Then, as I recall, the number eight was a happy thing, births. And all these things I just listed are things that are done right away. They're urgent medical attention. Then there was quite a long list of artificial joint surgery — even though 4,000 operations were performed, it was not top ten. And then there are, for example, cataract cuts in this area, too, at an average price of just under EUR 10,000 — that is EUR 10 million — half a percent of HUS money. These hospital machines are currently on call. Fortunately, this climate, this very rapid change in society over a few days, has reduced the number of accidents, reduced seasonal flu, has affected the range of acute diseases so that we have actually had more opportunities to treat these corona infected patients now. In addition, when this translation of the resources of care without haste into emergency care is introduced, I believe that it will be possible to do so. But basic health care is the key. I myself have brought it up a few times here. The question is, after all, that in practice the need for care is assessed there in basic health care, of course also in occupational health care, and that is why our committee, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, in its opinion to the Constitutional Committee, strongly stressed that the evaluation of the need for care should be carried out here all the time. In practice, it determines whether there is an urgent need for treatment or whether it is not urgent. We will not have public health collapse because we now have knee problems, for example... In time, I myself — this is now an anecdote — decided to wait to see how long it would take to get an MRI of public health care with the knee, that is, in 2000, and when it lasted eight months, I was just waiting to see if I could say, "I'm a fiend from June to January," and nothing dangerous happened to me during that time. They didn't do anything to that knee, and now it's been 20 years. So we have urgent and non-urgent diseases. The health system's gonna get through this. But those elderly people who are at home are actually as much a concern to me as this capacity for intensive care, because there are people there who are now the best place to be at home so that the diseases do not get to them. They must be provided with medicines, home care, hygiene and other support. How we come out of this crisis depends entirely on how many Finns are infected with this corona virus. We know, as has already been said a few times here, that, according to the examples of those who have been infected from abroad from over 80 years of age, the mortality rate has been 15%. We have 300,000 people over 80 years of age. If 10 percent of them are infected, that is, 30,000, 15 percent of them are 4,500. If we succeed in only one percent of the infection, the mortality rate will be in the range of seasonal flu. In 2017 and 2018 we lost 450 Finns to seasonal influenza. That's when the papers didn't do a single thing. That's when the first seasonal flu patient died today. I don't know now if there's any such ban on giving information — I don't believe it — but I imagine that hospitals are now quite sensitive about how much sensation is being sought here. If I now refer to the fact that in 2016 and 2017 we were certainly not told that today was the first to die.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u21	Mr President! Too bad the minister got out of the box. I would have asked him about this news that just came in. It is said that hospital districts have reported that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has asked not to publish amounts of patients in intensive care due to corona and that, according to the Director General, THL's communications are being considered. That morning we had a press conference. The government and ministers informed us about this corona situation and then — thanks to the Minister for your return — the Mika Salminen of THL, when asked how many patients we now have in intensive care, that one or two hands can count this number of patients. It would be very important to keep us informed about what is happening in Finland and how much intensive care is also increasing. I ask you, Minister: is this news accurate that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has asked not to publish amounts of those in intensive care because of the interest? Do we now have an age of secrecy in Finland, or are we going to act transparently and tell us all the things that are going around this corona now? Mr President! We are now discussing two regulations here. The second is that the municipality may waive compliance with the time limits laid down in the Health Care Act in the organisation of emergency care. The municipality may also waive the assessment of the need for services within the meaning of Article 36 of the Social Welfare Act, with the exception of the urgent need for assistance. It is very important that, when this regulation has already entered into force, people are nevertheless informed that it is only a matter of urgent care, but then urgent care in Finland will continue to be answered and that people always get an assessment of its service needs. It will be done within three days, and everyone has the right to do so. Information and guidance is very important at the point when a person contacts the health centre, is listened to and then knows that it is always possible to go there. This second regulation then relates to the fact that our staff will be sufficient during this corona virus epidemic. By way of derogation from the obligation to obtain the employee’s consent to work overtime and by way of derogation from the rest period provisions, the employer may, where appropriate, suspend or postpone the worker’s leave. For the first time, we are in a situation where the nurse has to answer ‘no,I can’t get a shift’ if she is ill. Very often, the nurse goes on sick duty there because she knows that the replacement is very difficult to obtain and that the shortage of staff will be evident. It's especially there in the care of the elderly. I would ask you, Minister: in what way is it now guaranteed that there will be enough nurses there in the field of care for the elderly? A great deal of inquiries have come from the hasty relatives now. When the relatives do not get to visit the care place for the elderly, they are anxious to know whether there will be enough of this basic treatment for these elderly people, who have been there daily to help feed, water, and also in washing, helping the toilet. Of course, every nursing place does its best to have a number of nurses, but how is this really ensured that the unit then has that care? The second now relates to these mouth protectors and masks. You have today stated that in home care the workers would wear masks. How will the need be met when the message from the field is that these instruments are not there? To increase the number of tests so that the urgency and emergency do not come and then the person in the most recent fever goes to seek treatment, it would be very important that at a very early stage a person should be tested. What's the situation? Today you told me that 1500 tests are possible every day. Is it going to happen? People should also be told that even if you have a high fever and have tried to reach out to the service, you cannot. This is not the line, is it, that there is urgent treatment, because obviously there is a need to get that test? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u22	Mr President! This is the first time that implementing regulations under the Emergency Act have been adopted in plenary and, in the case of the Emergency Act as a whole, this constitutional practice is being created. When, for the first time, powers such as these were first introduced, Parliament was very much discussing the regulations for the introduction of these powers and the detection of these exceptional circumstances, and now, for the first time, these more concrete implementing regulations are being reviewed, it will be the practice of what kind of interaction between Parliament and the administration, the Government, will take place in connection with these matters. After all, it is not an extended Question Time, but rather representatives can provide a response to the application of the exceptional procedures set up by the implementing regulation that work in practice and live at different levels of government. The provision on the right of ex post verification of implementing regulations under the Act on Preparedness was introduced into the current Act on Preparedness on the basis of a proposal from the Constitutional Committee. At the time, the government's proposal had proposed to waive the right of ex post inspection because the regulations adopted under the Emergency Act would no longer include matters to be regulated by the Act. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered, referring to its assessment of delegation of legislative powers, that this assessment by the then government was not justified. In view of the nature of the Emergency Response Act, the committee considered it appropriate otherwise to guarantee Parliament the possibility of verifying the appropriateness, necessity and proportionality of individual regulations adopted under the Emergency Response Act immediately after their adoption. The purpose of Parliament’s right of ex post verification is therefore essentially to check the appropriateness, necessity and proportionality of individual implementing regulations adopted under the Emergency Act. The procedure also highlights the role of Parliament as the supreme state body in emergency conditions under the Emergency Act. Now that these discussions have taken place on education, health and social services, it can be seen that there is such a strong connection with normal legislation as to how, under exceptional circumstances, it is modified that this right of ex post control is also well founded on these implementing regulations. This work is also important for future situations and also for dealing with this worsening crisis. That situation, when the Emergency Act was enacted, was such that these regulations were debated largely because, under the previous Emergency Act, these exceptional powers had been imposed by the President of the Republic’s decree. That model was never tried, but surely if it had survived, there would be a much bigger threshold here. The fact that the Government prepares the regulations and also decides on them will enable this very close interaction between the Government and Parliament and will then result in the most effective implementing regulations. Of course, the President will play an important role in establishing these exceptional circumstances, as has been said this time, together with the Government and Parliament. These first reports on regulations and the opinions of the specialised committees contain important observations and, in a way, guidance on how these implementing regulations are to be applied in practice and what additional measures are needed by the government and the administration in order for them to play in practical life. It is important for the Government's implementing regulations that they would be happy to give a pretty clear picture to the administration, its implementing agents, how to act, what are the exceptions to this normal expenditure. We have very many steps, both in the state administration and in these important services, in the municipalities applying these regulations and derogations, so it is good that the basic application regulation itself is clear, but it is also particularly important that further guidance is given on ministries and central government. In that sense, too, we need to give these guidance so that we can improve the situation to this next stage. If necessary, more specific powers can be introduced through the new regulations on the introduction of the euro, but then in these extension regulations, which come very soon in this case before 13 April, then additional, more precise, clearer changes can be made, i.e. they do not need to be adopted as such. They will come very soon because it has Easter, which means that in practically a few weeks' time we will be able to re-examine these issues in the form of extension regulations. As far as we, Parliament, are concerned, there is no doubt that this debate on the extension regulations will be even more complicated, both in the committees and in plenary, but it is always important to reserve this process according to the quality of the matter and because of the problems involved. Parliament has shown a good level playing field by allowing such a fast schedule to deal with these statements and reports in both the Constitutional Committee and the specialised committees, and this good model should then continue to be followed. What is important is that we prioritise these important objectives that the government has to pursue, at the same time very difficult principles — health, safety, work, livelihoods and the economy — and that is something that we in Parliament are very supportive of. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u23	Mr President! In this debate, we now have the question of how these preparedness laws affect social and health services. That is already clear, of course, in this debate we have understood from the outset that their priorities will change here. This is clear, the focus is, above all, on the most urgent cases, but also on the most vulnerable people, and when it comes to coronavirus, these most vulnerable people are long-term ill, especially older people. Now that older people, over 70 years of age, have been placed here in these guidelines of the Emergency Act for conditions such as quarantine, which aim to avoid intimacy, we have received a great deal of feedback from people: Why so? Is this some kind of age discrimination? Is this something that puts older people in a special situation? I myself was asking this question at the beginning of the week, but I'm not asking anymore. We have received these statistics from THL concerning Italy and China, and we now have precise figures on the risk of death by age group for people with corona. These figures are, in their own way, very simple and important for all citizens to know. In China and Italy, the mortality rate for those infected with corona virus under 30 years of age is 0.00%. When you go to people under the age of 50, between 30 and 50 years of age, the mortality rate is 0.1 per cent, i.e. 1 per cent. When we go to 50-60-year-olds, the mortality rate is 1%. When we go to 60 to 70 years of age, the mortality rate is 3 and when we go to 70 to 80 years of age, every tenth, 10 percent of those who have received the corona virus in Italy and China have died, and even more so when we go to over 85 years of age, the mortality rate is 20. This disease, the coronavirus, is a challenge and a problem for the elderly. We have just heard how the former director of HUS, the chief medical officer, Aki Lindén, told us here that the best medicine for an elderly person is now at home. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u24	Minister Kiuru has already asked for the floor and he will receive it immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u25	Mr President! Thank you very much for this debate. When asked by a representative By Essayah on this intensive care package, I understood that you asked how this intensive care was arranged, that is, how many breathing machines there are and so on. This whole, when you referred to the morning debate, is a big whole, the way in which the capacity is raised from the present to what is obtained through the Emergency Act. Now I just realized you weren't interested in this, so if you don't mind, I'm gonna jump over it now that we're here for so little time. Tomorrow we will tell you nationally how this intensive care will be arranged, and instructions have been given to the field. But I understood that you asked, and that is what we have now sought here for new instruments, which will then be introduced in the field. On the other hand, the fact is that it was the STT that sent the message and I only read it after I had already answered your question, and I now called to call to say that what confusion has been made in this kingdom in relation to this matter, which you probably asked about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u30	There was already a little desire for a debut. Let's do it now, but let's not drag on much tonight.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u31	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for calling, and thank you for responding to this misunderstanding here. It is very important that this also be corrected, because when I saw it as news to us and we read it, it does sound like you really would not want to tell anything. Salminen of THL told us at the briefing this morning that those intensive care patients can be counted with the fingers of one or two hands, and of course it was already known that it made us wonder what a serious situation we are in Finland. It is important that we receive timely information and that it is shared. There must be no glass ceiling in this case. There should be insulation, but no glass ceiling. We must have that information. You said, Minister, this morning that you will tell us the number of breathing machines tomorrow, and that is what we are waiting for. Of course, it is of interest to me as well as to the places of intensive care and how quickly it will be possible to arrange those sick places. Then tomorrow, Minister, you will tell us more and we will listen carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u32	Mr President! I agree that I would like to thank the Minister for this prompt action, because this came to us as a text message from the STT, and I think everyone thought a little that was silly, which is what this is all about. I, too, think that there should be an open line, because people think and wonder whether we have intensive care, but at the same time I fully understand the opinion of the THL and our ministry, officials and ministers that we cannot do so in order to identify individuals. Then let me say that I think that the introduction regulation that was discussed here yesterday is very well described in this background report on this intensive care: how are we going to use these measures to get more staff, to train people who already have the capacity for intensive care, because it is a difficult treatment. There are health professionals here, I'm not like that, but I know that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u33	Mr President! We have been here to decide on the introduction of the Emergency Act and the related regulation. This is a very exceptional situation, there is a state of emergency in this country and there is also a transfer of significant decision-making power to the Government, the Government and the authorities, so the starting point must be to have an up-to-date, adequate knowledge of what is happening in that country. At the same time as we have been asked to stay in their homes, efforts were made to limit their mobility, closed schools, it is vital that people receive up - to - date information. Of course, the protection of privacy and the degree to which it is, but how many people are in intensive care is general information to me and should not be secret.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u34	Mr President! I think it is valuable that we recognise the openness of an open society in this respect too. The minister informed us that we currently have one hand-counting coronavirus cases in intensive care in order to get a perspective on what the average level of intensive care in Finland is every day — to see this perspective. It is a bit like it helps to understand that 456 people died from normal influenza in 2018. By the way, its curve is pretty much the same. These seasonal flus also most severely affect elderly people, in a way similar to this effect of the corona virus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u35	Mr President! Thank you very much to the Minister for clarifying this matter. After Question Time, I was just discussing with Minister of Transport and Communications Haraka how we could improve this communication and improve the correct information. I believe that in many ways it also serves the citizens and alleviates their concerns and so on. I would have liked to ask the Minister: Now that these exceptional arrangements are at hand and there is pressure and demands for health care, have you stopped to consider the need for additional budgeting, because we have the need for additional resources anyway, we already have the need in health care, even without corona? And now that it seems that the peaks are still coming in this spring and early summer, what are the ideas of the government regarding this resource, including the euro?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u36	Mr President! Now that the minister is here — perhaps I missed the answer when I quickly took a maintenance break — when I asked about the situation in the various municipalities, I ask: what is the situation? And the second is, as we know, the financial situation of the municipalities. There are municipal households that are in very good condition, and then there are municipalities with problems in their economies. Has it been taken into account in the ministry that this corona strikes the municipalities, however — I do not hope that it will strike with its great power, but to some extent it may be visible in every municipality, and it will also cost us to prepare — that is to say, have the problems caused by the various budgets of the municipalities been taken into account when preparing for this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u37	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for his openness. The Korona virus is an invisible enemy, and the fight against it requires transparency and knowledge. I'd like to ask the Minister about the testing. The WHO has recommended such aggressive testing, as extensive as possible. We have, for example, the example of South Korea in Asia: South Korea has tested more than ten times the population, and now it seems that one of these bottlenecks in this testing is laboratory capacity. This has been the television broadcast by HUS Lasse Lehtonen this afternoon, where he states that the state, unlike Korea, has not directed any money to increase lab capacity due to the epidemic. And another bottleneck for testing, as I understand it, is personnel. The university would be, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u38	Mr President! I would like to thank Minister Kiuru for his prompt action and also for his openness on this issue. Here we all understand that it is important for citizens to know what a serious opponent that corona virus is and also because of its timely progress and what is happening at the moment because it affects people's behaviour. We have received news today that the people are waiting in line for buckets and dancing with hoses on Levi, and there will be no change unless people really understand deep in their hearts how serious this is. And in that sense, this timely information is absolutely essential. I understand that, of course, we should not be able to identify people, and I understand these data protection issues, but it is good to continue on this path that we clearly keep the public aware of what is going on with regard to the picture of the disease and how seriously this must be taken and how it should all affect our own behaviour. I still would've asked if there was.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u39	Mr President! At present, there is a very strong movement in Finland from their hospital districts, mainly from the hospital district of Helsinki and Uusimaa, to the hospital districts where the epidemic has not yet started. Indeed, there are reports from fell centres in Lapland that an unprecedented number of people have been packed there, and of course, if the disease has a long incubation period, this can bring not only a situation where the virus is exported to new areas and it is then, unfortunately, effectively transmitted to other people, but also a situation where a person who now travels in good health and skis for a few days can very quickly become very seriously ill. Here, Mr Lindén gave a rather fundamental speech on the extent to which these differences in capacity in intensive care across the country are:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u40	Now Minister Kiuru, three minutes, and then back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u41	Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to respond. — Representative Mr Autto asked about this internal mobility and possibly its consequences. In some countries, people have retired to their summer cottages during such a lock, and could you say to less populated areas where there is no provision for such a large population to have a rising service system? It is true that in Finland we must now observe how Finns take the measures of this restriction package. In this respect, we will monitor the situation. It is good to note that, in this case, it is also possible to consider any future restrictions on movement after the adoption of the Emergency Act by means of a separate implementing regulation. They are very big issues in society from the point of view of fundamental rights, and in that respect it can be said that the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has certainly been very careful to weigh up these future steps, too, if that is the case. In this respect, I think these options are inside. Whether they are needed, whether they are introduced, the next few weeks will show it. As far as these resources are concerned, Mr Essayah, Mr Hoskonen and Mr Vestman have specifically asked about additional resources, as Mr Tanus has done, and there is good news about these additional resources. We will be able to approve the amending budget on Friday. The various government ministers are currently sitting on that overall package, and in this respect I have received positive news of it, but let us leave this good news to the Minister of Finance. I would also like to say to Mr Vestman that we have, internally, had to organise this diagnostic capacity in the STM section. It is not yet visible in these actions, but if such misinformation moves, a good confirmation is that today's balance of 1500 cases tested does not, of course, come with normal resources, but has called for major efforts in the THL to ensure that it has been possible. When we relate this Finnish resource to the resources that have been used in other countries, it is good to say that we have already come a long way in Finland from the point of view of this testing resource. I had quite a lot of this debate during Question Time, but let me say here that this sample, which today has been tested — 1200 yesterday, 1500 today — corresponds to China's testing capacity in proportion to the population at the peak of their epidemic. This is what Mr Juvonen has already sought in this debate. In this regard, Finland is on the right track here, and we, as the Government, have already decided last Thursday and again on Monday that the testing capacity will be further increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u42	Mr President! Thank you, it has been interesting to listen to these debates, good speeches. I personally think it is very important that this regulation has been adopted and is in force, and it is good that it has now been reviewed. What is important here, however, is, of course, the fact that, through this regulation, everything will of course be taken care of, but now, of course, this timeless timetable will have to be changed a little. What is at issue here is that no one is left unaccounted for, that is our constitutional right to the people, but what is important is that, now that there is a situation like this, we should be prepared to give a slightly different priority to the urgent issue. That is a priority that health care staff are constantly forced to do, and this is what we are doing here. Then I will say that there are a lot of needs. So here we were talking about intensive care, and when I was in that swine flu myself, as I have said many times now, and when we heard Aki Lindén speak about it here, for example, he also assured us that we would have enough intensive care. So I am absolutely sure that we have a good intensive care capacity. I am not even worried about what is right; I am concerned about how our basic health care is going. So now I think it would be a good idea to think about getting a person as soon as possible when he has symptoms, there and a diagnosis, and then we go to the right kind of treatment. I know there is no such treatment for this yet, but it is nevertheless important for a person to know whether he has a corona or not a corona or whether it is someone else who should be treated in another way. And that is why I say that this basic health care capacity is what we have been working on here for a few years, and now you should think about it. Now again, let me remind you that in Ostrobothnia, for example, we have done in emergency care, emergency services and emergency services that if a sick child is brought there and we do not have the opportunity to take him immediately, we will provide a service voucher with which he, an ear-painted child, can go to a private person. There could be a little similar system of this kind that would also be such a service voucher or the use of commitments, to cooperate with the private sector. In fact, when there was the swine flu, that was where we worked on that cooperation with the private. It wasn't quite as good as it was yet, but I'm saying it's going to be fine too. This is one such point when even private individuals need to show their readiness to move around to this type of activity and to enter into cooperation agreements with the public sector. Of course we have good cooperation patterns, but here we have to develop them. Then I would say, on occupational health care, that occupational health care must also come now to basic health care. Since we have people of working age and they have occupational health care, occupational health care must now also help in this diagnostic and specifically in the care that is provided to people of working age through their work in a legal way. As far as occupational health care is concerned, I would now like to say that thank you to everyone who is currently stretching out, these professionals in that field. Thank you. Thank you very much. But remember that you should not be driving yourself into a pipe now, and that is why I say that occupational health care must now also ring the alarm bells and have this kind of thinking about how to help your own employees in hospitals, for example, and ensure that this fatigue does not come. After all, when a person is committed to his work, he does and does, but at times rest, and occupational health care must also be reminded of it. As far as the third sector is concerned, the third sector will be able to help. For example, the Heart Association has just opened the corona pages today. Look at the website of the Heart covenant: Dam dam, immediately there comes corona information for example for heart patients, and when all of us have hearts it is worth reading for all of us. Well, then I would say — and I am referring to the old people being mentioned here — that now that the elderly are there a little like in quarantine conditions, we are now making use of that technology. Now, for example, there is such a multi - service terminal that I am now familiar with when I thought about it for my own family and relatives to think about. There is such a multi-service terminal, a bit like the one we have on iPads. There may then be contact with relatives on FaceTime or whatever and then also order food or a pharmacy to contact and a doctor and so on. This is what I would recommend. It will soon be Mother’s Day and Father’s Day and everything, so that gifts, even Christmas presents, will be available in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u45	Mr President! This debate, to which Risikko refers, has to do with whether it is taking place in this context, when we are dealing with a completely different issue, whether I am going to address the whole issue of intensive care here. We had a press conference today with a view to communicating to people over 70, which is what this Prime Minister's Code of Conduct, which had been issued. It was also intended to review the picture of the disease and also this prevalence, and tomorrow we will be going through the way the social and health care system is changing, in particular with respect for parliamentaryism, that the powers that are currently being dealt with in this dossier are not yet in place. That's why I thought we'd go through this whole service thing tomorrow. Whatever the Members of Parliament are talking about, I will always be available, and this week I think every day I have also been available to the media by every possible means, and we are also trying to ensure that when not all questions are answered within that time limit, those answers will certainly also be received from the Ministry. And at the moment, for example, in this whole intensive care, there are quite good articles and interviews done, interviews with our officials and officials online. In that regard, in this debate, I did not go to open up the big picture. But if so, it will be a pleasure — of course, if the President agrees — to discuss it as well. But for my part, Mr Risikko, I have nothing against it, rather the contrary: I am getting a strong backstow when we all do this work, which we have to do together in moderation, one using each other and our views and with appreciation, and it will certainly take this nation forward in every way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u46	Let's go back to the list of speakers and the title.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u47	Mr President! According to the Finnish Constitution, everyone has the right to life and security. Our most important task in these abnormal circumstances is to protect a unique and valuable life. In doing so, we must not forget those who have so far needed special support, care and protection. Yesterday, Parliament unanimously decided that the adoption regulations under the Government's Emergency Act were not to be repealed. Today's regulation is already in practice. The implementing regulations now come to Parliament for ex-post verification. This Regulation will reduce compliance with the time limits for non-emergency care and the assessment of the need for social care services. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously proposes that this Regulation should not be repealed. However, the means provided by the regulation for exceptional circumstances should only be used in extreme cases where this is necessary. Many of us have loved ones who have recently been hospitalized and even intensive care for a completely different reason than corona. The aim of all this preparation and all this restriction is that, in addition to the interest rate, health care is also able to treat other serious diseases. We should also be able to treat those who otherwise get sick. When we follow the instructions given by the authorities, we will at the same time ensure the care of sick and life-threatening people in this country. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considered it important for citizens to be able to seek out non-health services as necessary during the epidemic. This is important that they do not fall outside services and society, that the rights of vulnerable groups are realised. In many respects, we are in a somewhat perverse situation. As we usually get close to others in the face of difficulties and close our contacts, in this new situation we now have to distance ourselves physically and reduce contact. We should therefore invest in keeping the spiritual connection on the phone and be present where we can, through technology. Congressman Risikko just told me about the multi-service terminal. Earlier today we have been called upon to spend; let us invest in such equipment, which will also be a source of joy after the crisis. Such responsible action is good preventive welfare work. The importance of social work and care will increase as the crisis progresses and may be prolonged. Not all citizens have the resilience of the crisis. Mental health problems will get worse. The need for action must always be taken into account in the implementation of this Regulation at all levels of decision-making. The application of the Regulation should take particular account of vulnerable people. All in all, this situation is very stressful for many mentally. People live in completely different situations. Not everyone has the same experience. The experiences of a small entrepreneur who is experiencing loneliness, who is living with children, who is struggling with the boredom of teens, who is cancerous, who is struggling with financial problems, or who is on the verge of divorce are very different. Even the experience of fear can be different. We're afraid of different things. That is why there is also a need for a variety of different kinds of support. The children should be told that we are all right, that we take care of each other and that we survive together. There are also children who do not have a safe parent at home who would say that, but who are drunk or violent. These marks will appear serious later if we give up too much assessment of the need for social care services. The social work chain should not be cut off and services for children should not be interrupted, as the crisis can significantly exacerbate family problems. When many children are home a lot in the coming weeks, homes and families need support. This is also in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the Constitutional Committee also drew attention to this. Even in difficult circumstances, we should always set priorities. In fact, in the light of human rights treaties, the state of emergency does not change the social services for children and disabled people who need special support. If the disease situation persists, we will have new regulations and implementing regulations in this House. As Mr Koskinen said, we can take them forward in an even more precise form. It is up to Parliament to decide each time whether they will remain in force. Even in exceptional circumstances, Parliament has an important role to play in ensuring that society operates and that fundamental rights and human rights are realised. It's the decision-makers' job to convey a sense of security. I wish all health and social care workers strength. You're doing a valuable job.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u48	Mr President! The introduction of the Act of Preparedness is an historic and powerful step towards centralising and increasing the power of the government and the authorities and restricting the fundamental rights of people. This is not an abstract limitation of rights in the human rights world, but a concrete restriction affecting people's lives, everyday life and work, and that is what these implementing regulations now before us are all about: restricting people's rights to access services and allowing them to derogate from the rights of workers in certain areas - drastic measures. That is why the Emergency Act is a crucial requirement: these powers can only be exercised in ways that are necessary and proportionate to the objective pursued in the exercise of those powers. The requirement of necessity and proportionality of the Emergency Act applies to all those who apply the Emergency Act and the regulations adopted under it, i.e. first with a view to the adoption of the implementing regulation and first with a view to activating the provisions of the Emergency Act, must be met by the requirement of necessity and proportionality in relation to the current exceptional circumstances, and this matter was dealt with in Parliament yesterday. Secondly, the provisions of these implementing regulations must be necessary and proportionate. That is what we are dealing with now and, as we heard, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that these two regulations may remain in force. Thirdly — and this is very important to note — the application of the provisions of the implementing regulations must also be necessary in practice and proportionate to the objective pursued. This means that, ultimately, the exercise of the powers of the implementing regulation, i.e. an assessment of whether, in any case, time limits for non-emergency care or the assessment of the need for social care services can be waived, will be made by an individual official in the municipalities and cities, or will be carried out on the territory of the municipality and the city. I say yes that this is quite a right, but it is also a huge responsibility for individual municipalities, cities and their officials. This individual official therefore has to wonder whether, in this situation, for example, the obligation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child must be respected. In other words, we have entered an abstract world of human rights obligations under international treaties into the practical world in which those rights must be exercised, and in this case, when these regulations are applied, we are restricting them. In the last few weeks, the municipalities have been in a rather tight position to resolve the corona crisis, and I myself would like to emphasise, Minister Kiuru, the demand for the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The committee has stressed the importance of rapid and practical guidance given to municipalities by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and by the Regional State Administrative Agencies. Minister, these municipalities and cities and the individual officials of these municipalities and cities must not be left alone in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u49	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking Mr Vestman for his very good speech. There has been a very constructive debate in this Chamber, and that is great. I have been dealing with these issues today, both in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which means that the subject has been dealt with. I would like to raise this point from the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health: ‘The Committee stresses that it is important during theexception period that patients apply for treatment,as appropriate,for non-infectious diseases. “ This is very important. Mr Lindén gave a very important speech on this and explained to us how this urgent and urgent treatment in the field will then be defined, and that is all I will say, but I would like to give you an example of what my own concern is: My own relative was at the end of the phone. He had fallen, and my phrase was, "Go to the doctor." But then he had a feeling that‘I’m thinking about those patients, the I continued to listen further to the reason for this and said that ‘now to the doctor’,that even if I And so it was. What I am trying to say here is that one concern, apart from the fact that health resources are in order, is that our people are aware that they have the right to seek help and care when it is really necessary. In this respect, I would like to stress to the Minister, just as Mr Vestman did in the past, the need for this communication, the need for clear communication, both for people, for citizens and for those authorities as well. I myself have received several communications from people about what advice should now be followed, and then from the municipalities about whether or not it has been done in the way that would have been desired at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. I would also like to draw attention to this, therefore, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has reminded us of the importance of sufficiently practical guidance. In addition, I would like to remind you that, although we live in an exceptional state, in exceptional circumstances, the Constitutional Committee has stated, in accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution, that temporary exceptions to fundamental rights must comply with Finland's international human rights obligations. I would like to stress that, although we currently have such a situation, we have to take some rather demanding measures, they must all rely on international human rights. This is where Mr Vestman raised the issue of important children's rights and the rights of disabled people. I would also like to point out that the measures taken must always be those that are justified. Here too, the Constitutional Committee will draw attention to the fact that, according to Section 4 of the Act on Preparedness, the legislative mandate can only be used in ways that are unavoidable to achieve the purpose of the law and in aproportional manner This is also a very important point. Finally, I would like to thank in particular the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mrs Ojala-Niemela. It's been quite a few days. We've had a lot of time together. I would also like to thank all the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In my opinion, cooperation has been good and I hope it will continue to be the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u50	Mr President! This regulation is certainly extremely important now in this critical situation, and I would like to thank not only the ministries that have prepared it, but above all the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has worked quickly on this issue, and also the special committees which bring their own views to these. I would have liked to ask the Minister again, when the minister is fortunately in that box throughout this debate, that when there is a right to depart from care without haste and these deadlines, there have now been a particularly large number of enquiries from the citizens concerning these rehabilitations in Kela. There are a lot of people there now who are really worried. Firstly, there are mental health rehabilitation workers who, for example, have been involved in individual therapy, and it has now been understood that all physical encounters in these rehabilitation situations will be stopped like a wall, and of course it may be understandable when it comes to group therapy, but these individual rehabilitation patients have been really confused. For some, this kind of remote connection, therapy via Skype may be appropriate, because this remote therapy has now been instructed, but there are also people who, for example, have it in their own mental situation or those inhibitions may be of the kind that they specifically need to face-to-face contact, and they have asked a lot of questions that if that service provider is willing to meet, then is it really so that Kela prevents these meetings from being arranged, if the service provider considers that this kind of encounter between two people would not be problematic from the service provider's side. The second point is similar to demanding rehabilitation. There are people there who, for example, need physical therapy so that their pains, spastic muscle aches, such conditions can get worse so much that, in fact, these people without this rehabilitation will soon be on call at RD, and the next step will be to hospitalization. In other words, on this point too, I hope that the Ministry will now carefully assess this issue and consider that we will not, by means of this simple Kela guidelines, actually make the situation worse on the very critical side of the situation, that is to say there on the emergency side, so that, in these unsolicited cases, their health will not be reduced to such an extent that they will move on to the other side. In that sense, I would like to see special attention being paid to this issue of rehabilitation. In fact, in other respects, I would like to say more about home care for the elderly and the assessment of the need for care there. Consultations with committees have also raised the idea that it would be possible to think in such a situation as this, where restaurants are in difficulty and their customers have disappeared and, at the same time, on the home care side, for example, catering services and similar services, there might be a need for additional labour and additional hands and additional services, for example, that the services provided at home, in particular food services, through these restaurants, might perhaps be able to buy and thereby alleviate the resource shortage that is coming there at the moment. But what really matters most now in this regulation is that we are able to specifically respond to the need for its critical care on the side of special care and to release that capacity from urgent care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u51	Mr President! The Korona virus is rampant and has put the world on its knees, and many have stopped to think not only of life, but of these practical solutions, and so have we in the Constitutional Committee: really intense work in the last few days. I would now like to raise a few points about this report. Under this Emergency Act, when and if the municipality renounces compliance with the time limits laid down in the Health Care Act in the organisation of emergency care, it is a condition that it is necessary specifically for the provision of emergency care and that the patient’s health is not compromised by exceeding the time limit. This is the message I would like to send to the municipalities and to the patients, too, that if there is a patient waiting for urgent treatment, but one way or another, the situation becomes more urgent, then the matter must be re-evaluated and acted upon. Then this section of the Social Welfare Act on the waiving of service needs was one that I myself thought about for a very long time, in a certain way such a tender and painful place, but it is also worth noting that the assessment of the need for urgent assistance remains there, and precisely the fact that a person's necessary livelihood and care is ensured. In particular, an adequate assessment of the service needs of older people, in particular those in need of support, must be ensured. This is what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses in this report. All in all, of course, this assessment of the need for services in the Social Welfare Act is very important and should be taken care of in these days and weeks and months and, if there is any deviation from it, just as Mrs Vestman has done here with merit, it can only be abandoned if it is necessary, that is to say, these powers can only be exercised when they are necessary. I would also like to highlight here the importance of children's rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the European Social Charter, as the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also highlighted and also the prohibition of discrimination in these areas, which must be implemented under all circumstances. The rights of children and the rights of people with disabilities and their special status and special needs must be realised, no matter how exceptional we are. As has been emphasised in the previous speeches, so has the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stressed that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, on the one hand, and the Regional State Administrative Agencies, on the other hand, play a very important role in providing rapid and sufficiently clear practical guidance. We have so many questions from the field and there is uncertainty. Of course, this situation has come into our hands very quickly, but especially in this situation the role of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the role of regional government agencies in giving clear practical instructions is very central. Then I would have liked to ask the Minister — thank you for being here at the sitting — a few questions. Finland is one of the leading countries in health technology, known worldwide as one of the leading countries in health technology where new innovations are discovered, not just found, but also implemented. We have skills, knowledge and skills. I would ask: have the development and preparation of rapid tests been raised in Finland, for example? I believe that we have knowledge, know-how, technology for it, if only resources are otherwise allocated to it to some extent. Similarly, breathing machines and their manufacture were brought up here earlier. We know that certain car factories have been harnessed in the world, and so on, for the manufacture of breathing machines, and we would certainly have the knowledge, skills and know-how to do this. Has this matter been raised? Similarly, I would have liked to ask you again about that basic health care capacity. In what way has it been instructed to concentrate resources on specific services in order to make this basic health care service work as well as possible? However, it is the root of our entire health care system, and if there is an imbalance and even more delays in time, then it will affect the whole treatment chain. As a final point, I should like to raise the point when I understood from the Minister that you have tried to communicate the seriousness of the situation to the elderly and ask whether it is intended to continue to communicate with them. There's a lot of questions coming out of the field. We do indeed have these steel bars and steel bran, 70s, 80s, even 90s, in very good condition. But in this case, coronavirus is not just about age. We have in the risk group of course those who have underlying diseases, but also age has at least so far been identified as such a separate risk factor. Even if you feel fit yourself, these limitations and guidelines should still be followed, because as we know, coronavirus can be carried and infected even when the symptoms are very low or there are virtually no symptoms. However, we know that older people also move among other elderly people, and in that way there may be a role in infecting others, and the other person, the neighbor, the person close to them, the virus infection can be different, and those deaths can also increase there among the elderly. So my question is: is this message to be repeated in the ministry, so that this group of elderly people can really understand the seriousness of this situation? Somehow you've come to think that maybe.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u52	Mr President! We are here to discuss the preparedness regulation, which concerns the abolition of the time limits for non-emergency care and the relaxation of the assessment of the need for social care services. In this context, I would like to raise the issue of the functioning and smooth functioning of basic health care, which has also been raised as one of the areas for the development of this regime. In this context of the corona epidemic, basic health care has in practice been completely forgotten, and it may indicate how special care-oriented we think about different diseases. This is where special medical treatment has taken off ahead of the tree, as is shown, among other things, by the fact that our tests have focused on special care for a very select group and then there have been a lot of people excluded from it. In practice, for all open health care people who use health centres, private clinics and occupational health care, this possibility of testing does not exist, but is currently only available to patients who require hospitalisation and then to healthcare staff. They are important target groups, and that is how we should continue, but we would need more testing. How can we prevent the spread of this infection if we do not catch those who cause the infection? They travel around there with colds, respiratory symptoms, and they do not know that they have corona. The fact that we're just saying that you should stay away from work for two weeks so that it doesn't spread without us knowing what they have... If there are mild symptoms, it will certainly be taken care of, regardless of whether it is corrosive or any other upper respiratory tract infection, but yes it matters, for if it is corrosive, then you know for example to avoid visiting a loved one who has some immune-reducing medication or disease, or, for example, a family with a child with rheumatism and medication for it, or a diabetic, but at the moment they are virtually excluded from all these tests. It would therefore be very important for more tests to be introduced at this stage when we are not in an epidemic here. There has been experience of this in South Korea, and also in Germany the professor in Helsingin Sanomat today told well and wondered why not test in Finland, because this would be the very point where we should dramatically increase the number of tests. In other words, the same thing about basic health care resources, which Mr Tanus also asked: what is the way in which basic health care is adequately resourced to receive the patient's mass, what is the subject of primary health care, and the possibility of testing it? One thing that is also of interest to Minister Kiuru is these telephone services. People try to reach the health centre, but the telephone service is congested, and it easily leads to the only way to get in touch being to go there. That is not a desirable solution for the spread of this infection, but it is unfortunately what people have to do. With regard to the protective equipment: it is very important that the social and health care staff have adequate and adequate protective equipment and that they are sufficient. There must be plenty of them for the staff in the hospital, but also for open health care. However, a significant part of our health care is taking place there on the open side, so that we can also keep its health care staff healthy is of paramount importance. Especially since we are now in the process of regulating that we can move staff from one office to another, we cannot turn our backs on the private side just because it is a private sector, but we must ensure, with regard to these protective equipment, that we have them for everyone, because our social and health care staff are, however, a common resource and also a means of coping with this epidemic. Finally, I would like to mention this ageing population and those who are at risk. In particular, support for older people who are now easily left alone in their own walls in every way, adequate communication and information through magazines and television, as well as assistance from their neighbours and social work from the authorities. Now, if the share of other social work decreases, we must be able to direct social work assistance to the elderly, children, disabled people and other particularly vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u53	Mr President! The pandemic situation in the world is developing, and an hour an hour is giving us worrying information from both southern Europe, the United States and many countries in Asia and the Middle East. The threat and challenges that all mankind will face in the coming months are certainly those that we have never seen before, and in this respect it is very important that the Finnish Parliament, the government of the country and the President of the Republic act in full unity so that public health and, on the other hand, all this threat to public health can manage the impact on the national economy in such a way that Finland can cope with this. Mr President! If a country has good prospects for survival, then Finland is certainly one of those countries in the world, so in this sense we can be confident, even though the outlook for the future is currently grey, very uncertain and certainly even frightening. In the midst of all this, it is very important that Finland is democratically, democratically and democratically governed by the rule of law, that key institutions operate and that they are able to take the necessary decisions to safeguard both public health and the national economy. In this respect, I would like to thank the government for the measures it has presented and for which, for example, we will be hearing more tomorrow. Mr President, I would like to express my particular thanks to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, chaired by Mr Ojala-Niemela, who, in my view, has shown in this difficult situation that, under the Constitution, Finland is actually governed by the rule of law, even under exceptional circumstances, and all the measures taken by the authorities are well-measured to manage this crisis. At the same time, on my own behalf and certainly on behalf of all of us, I would like to express the support of Minister Kiuru and the entire Government, which is united in this House, that all the measures that must be taken to safeguard public health and also to ensure the sustainability of the national economy should be taken, and that support for them will certainly be found in our decision-makers. Mr President! In other words, a very specific issue which is small in this large whole, but it is certainly important for the people to whom it applies, and that is that, tomorrow, when Minister Kiuru gives more detailed instructions as to what these activities are to be carried out, then in the everyday lives of the citizens, the way in which the operation of hospital schools is to be guided. This has come to me from that field, and I have promised to pass on this matter and the desire for clear guidelines in this regard too. I really appreciate the fact that Mr Kiuru is here with us to hold this debate, and I would like to conclude by wishing both Minister Kiuru and the entire Government the strength and the wisdom to overcome the difficulties we will face in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u54	Mr President! We have two regulations on the table today, which have actually already entered into force. In that respect, the debate has led partly astray because these regulations have already entered into force, and now we in Parliament have the opportunity to repeal these two regulations or not to repeal them. This is a very exceptional procedure which, in this ex post or ex post verification, is intended to ensure that the rule of law, fundamental rights and international agreements are implemented. On the other hand, it is intended to ensure that when Finland is in exceptional circumstances, we are quick enough to take these decisions, which are necessary. This is not ordinary legislation, but legislation under exceptional circumstances. Greetings from the basement, from the meetings of the Constitutional Committee. I can guarantee that we have read people's fundamental rights and have carefully monitored their compliance with these regulations. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there are times when a comma is easily twisted, but today, I do not think that any attention was too small when we talked about the right to life. This has been quite serious and appropriate. These two regulations have now been sent to this Chamber debate. The first is the Government Decree on the right of the municipality to derogate from the time limits for urgent care of health care and assessments of the need for social care services. The second is the right to derogate from the annual leave law, the working time law and the employment contract law as far as is defined. It must be borne in mind that this regulation does not oblige us to give up anything but, in this situation, provide resources and opportunities to respond to a critical situation in the event of an epidemic in a municipality or province. In this way, these regulations also give enormous power to municipalities and joint municipal authorities to take these decisions and reorganise their activities to the extent required by the situation. It may be worth mentioning that these regulations also give municipalities the responsibility to comply with the human rights agreements that we have approved and ratified in Finland. For example, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is a very heavy human rights treaty. There is no crisis clause, i.e. no exceptional situation in which the agreement on the rights of the child could not be complied with. This should be taken into account when assessing these regulations in municipalities. In addition, the Convention on Human Rights for Persons with Disabilities is a human rights agreement without a crisis clause, i.e. no emergency conditions, even if the situation in Finland is what it is. For these groups of people, the situation must be secured. Moreover, according to Article 88(1) of the Emergency Act, the condition that a municipality may waive the time limits laid down in the Health Care Act in order to organise emergency care is that it is necessary to provide urgent care and that the patient’s health under no circumstances is compromised by the fact that the time limit is exceeded. It is a rather serious observation: it must not endanger the patient’s health. We have heard good, expert speeches in this Chamber today about what are the situations, where this kind of exceptional procedure can be moved to, and I will not go to them more deeply at this point. As far as the assessment of the need for social services is concerned, the assessment of the need for services is not only an expense item or a burden but, in particular, an opportunity to save from major difficulties and rehabilitation, and a rapid assessment is often also the best cost saving. With regard to municipalities and joint municipal authorities, I would now like to pay particular attention to the assessment that, when these various projects and measures have been taken to improve the assessment of service needs throughout Finland, starting with the social and regional reform of the previous government term and the ideas it brings, I would very much like to see those projects not put on ice at this point but also understood the importance and time saving and cost saving of the customer's functional service needs. Thank you so much for everyone who stretches in this situation. Thank you to the Minister for bringing us more information in such a fast-paced debate. Indeed, I have experienced the work of ministers and also the work of the entire state administration as an excellent demonstration of the fact that, even in such a difficult situation, flexibility is being given on both sides and in a different way and that information is available as soon as it is prepared. It has been nice to work in the Constitutional Committee when, even on a short schedule, experts have been very prepared for these discussions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u55	Mr President! With the Act on Preparedness, we in Parliament have had regulations before us, which have already come into force in the so-called after-treatment process, and these are therefore today about the right to derogate from the timetables for the urgent care of health care. This is precisely what we want to be prepared to ensure that our health care is able to withstand the spread of this corona virus and that we are able to guarantee good and high quality care for all in a timely manner, and that we are also prepared for this intensive care and the congestion of intensive care. The Ministry had previously instructed that hospital districts do not publish the amounts of people who have ended up in intensive care because of the interest rate, but thank the Minister for the fact that this information was passed on here. However, that is an essential part of this. I understand that we should not go into such a detailed distinction that individual people can be identified, but it is a question of whether we are sufficiently prepared for this situation and how we can act, for example, in this house, where money is decided, so that we have enough seats. Mr Lindén, who, as a former director of HUS, is well aware of this situation, said that we have about 300 intensive care facilities and 200 intensive care facilities. However, there are considerably fewer of them than there are in many other countries. If you look at the number of people in Finland per 100,000, it is about 7, slightly depending on numbers and sources, i.e. 7 per 100,000. In Germany the number is 29, in Austria about 22, in Italy 12 and in the USA well over 30. We are significantly behind these. Let's hope there's enough seats. As this corona epidemic and this situation progressed several times, THL has made assessments which, unfortunately, have not all been very accurate in terms of what has happened since then. They have published three different scenarios in which 20, 40 or 60 percent would develop corona. In any case, then, let us talk about the million - dollar class if any of these were to come true. According to THL estimates, between 0.4% and 1% would be hospitalized and about one quarter of these would be intensive care, i.e. the THL's estimate of the need for intensive care is 0.1%, but, Minister, the WHO estimates that the need for intensive care would be up to 5%, and Imperial College has estimated enough intensive care for Finland at 1.3%, i.e. approximately 13 times the estimate of THL. I would like to ask you, Minister: what is the basis of these estimates, which are clearly lower than those of others in the THL, and are they over-optimistic? The director of HUS, Lasse Lehtonen, was before us in the Committee on Finance, and he used the 35% infection rate as an example, i.e. if 35 percent were infected, it would mean 96,000 intensive care patients in Finland during the whole epidemic, and there will be a huge amount of talk. Mr Vestman raised this question in the debate. South Korea has introduced a different model. A few minutes ago, we received news from South Korea that the situation is about to explode. South Korea opened such drive-in testing points and has conducted 20,000 tests a day. They have been able to stop this spread and their situation is completely different. I would like to ask you, Minister Kiuru: why could Finland not take a model from South Korea and open such drive-in test points and be able to genuinely limit this situation? The rate of infection in Finland may be as high as 20 to 30 times what official statistics currently show. Then one of the concerns is this infectious disease allowance, which in fact is 100% and without any liability. Now we have a situation where, when testing is not done, many of us are faced with sickness allowance, which is clearly weaker, and then many who come from abroad are not able to get to that test and are actually going completely blank. This lack of testing is reflected in the end game in the fact that people’s livelihoods are reduced when they are not covered by the infectious disease allowance. This is also reflected in the situation of many families with children: for example, when children at risk have had to be moved home from day care and school and when parents are unable to benefit from this infectious disease allowance, their family’s income has plummeted significantly. Mr President! Finally, the fact that information from the world now seems to tell us that this is not only dangerous for the elderly and the elderly. In the USA, more than half of those in intensive care are of working age, in the Netherlands more than half of those in intensive care are under 50 years of age. After a while, when Minister Kiuru will certainly answer our questions, I would ask about this number of breathing machines: how many breathing machines do we have? Finally, I share Mr Essayah's concern about these therapies, many of which have now been put on ice at this stage — including rehabilitation, various services for the elderly, which may seem small, such as leg care and this type of care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u56	Mr President! We are talking about these health issues here, but one link with the Committee on Education is, of course, that there is health care in connection with student care. In this respect, it is very important to bear in mind that student care must, however, operate there, and now the Government's regulation on early childhood education and temporary restrictions on the obligation to organise education and training is still under consideration by the Government, and we will certainly be able to get more details about it when we come here next week. But just to say that there is a huge need for information now. As a representative of the Committee on Education and Rural Development and as chairman of the Committee on Culture, I would now like to say that there is quite a great need for information in the school sector and in the municipalities. Although there is a lot of information on the website of the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Finnish National Board of Education — I urge it to read there — at the moment the Ministry of Education and Culture and the National Board of Education have a special responsibility to produce as uniform information as possible, so that it is clear and precisely consistent. Why does it now need to come from this state level? After all, the organiser of education is obliged to inform as soon as possible all pupils and guardians of the school and school services, including student care services, which are available during the period of validity of the Government Decree and what to do if they need to be done. It is also very important that the various authorities coordinate their provisions and instructions in such a way as to convey a clear and unambiguous message and in an understandable way. We are just thinking that, even in this situation, when the aids are decided, then the municipalities decide some things, then the Government and Parliament are the ones who decide some things, and when there is still some of them through the Act on Disease Control, some of them are through the Act on Preparedness, Part through the Health Care Act and Part through the Education, Education, Education and Early Education Act, then it is very important that we here in Parliament next week, when we get all these regulations applauded here, including this ex-post evaluation, we are also aware of what law is based on and what is said there. I am simply saying this because if mothers, fathers, parents who may be listening to this, who are wondering what their municipality should offer, then there will always be instructions and information on the website of the Ministry of Education and Culture and the National Board of Education all the time, and certainly there will be more in the next few days. Once we have this one regulation checked ex post, there will be more. But just as the ministers have said here in a very understandable way, it has not been possible to complete everything without knowing this, but certainly everyone is doing their best all the time. Once again, at the end of my speech, I would like to thank all those who are currently working to limit this disease, the potential high peak of an epidemic, and in that way we will also be able to alleviate the effects, particularly the adverse effects. I would also like to point out that during the first wave of swine flu, we had a total of 8,000 laboratory-certified cases in the autumn of 2009, but the number of people affected was many times higher, because the laboratory verification was stopped at some point, and then we had 1,600 patients in hospital care during the first wave, and there were also intensive care patients. And, of course, some of the intensive care patients were also used... Here, too, is the opportunity to cooperate with other countries. Of course, the problem now is that in all the countries this is, we do not have that capacity from other countries. Nevertheless, I am very confident about the adequacy of intensive care. Above all, I am concerned about basic health care. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u57	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for still being here. There will certainly be pressure on all ministers and the whole government, many entrepreneurs and officials and homes. Mr Risikko mentioned information and communication a few times in his speech, as well as many colleagues earlier. The radio is making plain-language news. An excellent concept for people who have difficulties with Finnish or Swedish. How it works can perhaps be summed up in simple words, as concrete as possible, short sentences and spoken slowly, and before these messages, the news is driven out, I believe there is some kind of test group that still believes that the message must be understood. The ministries and the authorities have communication people. Everyone is trained, trying their best, doing their best, but the pressure is high, the time pressure is terrible. Sometimes the information needs to be passed on, but I still encourage that someone outside the industry who is not a professional and who is not constantly involved in it should read or listen to the message before it is passed on. Osmo A. Wiio said in these aphorisms some decades ago that communication always fails, except by chance. That is a little sarcastic. And rule number two: if the message can be misinterpreted, it is usually misinterpreted. So this underlines the importance of communication. And now about this parliamentary work: Of course, we are setting an example here of how we view these recommendations and regulations. Today we made a good statement that there were only about 40 representatives in the Chamber. It should be remembered that the Constitution specifically states that a Member of Parliament must not be prevented from carrying out his duties, but that was a recommendation, and we did well to accept that recommendation. The groups worked, and it is likely that rotation is taking place so that representatives can be here. Everyone can, of course, follow, but it cannot be denied, but I think this is an example of how we should act here as well. I followed the sitting a few meters away from the rest of the people, in that gallery, and I drew attention to the fact that the ministers were still sitting very closely. The government's running the country. The responsibility of the government is extremely high, and the fact that ministers are so close together also poses a security risk. A few ministers had been placed on the other side. That is all well and good, but perhaps we could think about this from the point of view that, when we know in advance what is going on, or perhaps even better in this case, what is being asked during the oral Question Time, only the ministers who are absolutely necessary at that time are here. It is not necessary and perhaps not necessary to sit alone, as Minister Kiuru is showing the model here, but safety is an important issue, and the country's government must be able to function in all situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u58	This latter issue was discussed in the Council of Presidents. It was found that the intention is to lighten the conditions of the ministers in that box.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u59	Mr President! I will return to the testing of the corona virus, so there are excellent international examples, and even though this testing has been increased in Finland, we will be lagging behind the pace of South Korea. According to a German professor who specializes in viruses, every uninsulated carrier of the corona virus dramatically worsens the situation. According to him, one sick person can cause as many as 3,000 new infections within eight weeks. In the opinion of this professor, testing for all flu symptoms and isolation of coronavirus patients would also be necessary in Finland in order to avoid the worst scenario of the epidemic. Well, in the long term, the only way to deal with the epidemic and eventually to dismantle these restrictive measures is to be as sure as possible of who has already suffered from the disease. Our society will hardly tolerate the isolation of all those with flu symptoms for two weeks from now, for months, even more than a year. We're running out of employees in a number of areas. Well, I have received a message from universities that there would be researchers, skills, resources to test corona infection, but this has not yet been used effectively. — You said, Minister Kiuru, in the past, that the number of tests will be increased from the current 1500 tests per day, and I would like to ask you by what means this will take place and whether you intend to make better use of the ready-made professionals in universities and also the resources that have been made available. — On Twitter, I noticed an assistant professor at the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine who said that Viking had a safety lab of this kind specifically used for basic virology research. In this tweet he asked whether it would be a resource that could be harnessed to test the corona virus, for example. Furthermore, Mr President, I would like to highlight the situation of the risk groups. First of all, we must thank all those over 70 years of age who have scrupulously followed the government's recommendation to stay in quarantine conditions. It may seem heavy, even frightening. My own grandmother said: ‘It was too long a time for this to happen. “ This requires the support and seizing of the loved ones from a distance. But according to the media data and their own observations, there is a significant group of over 70-year-olds who defy the government's instructions to stay home. In public, the seniors who are buzzing in shops and cafes have even been aggravating, and I myself have found in that social media that even such intergenerational unsolidarity has arisen. The situation is that many people who live in peak years are trying to put up with a very challenging situation at the moment: caring for children, teaching children at home at the same time as trying to do their best to work at a distance. Many entrepreneurs are in deep trouble when the customers have run out like a wall and the cash register is empty. In this situation, it may seem unfair and difficult for some to fail to follow the recommendations. I would like to thank the government for having made a strong effort to signal the importance of this that every 70-year-old should stay home as far as possible. It is important to continue this communication. I would like to ask again, Minister Kiuru: when will you draw conclusions as to whether this recommendation is sufficient or whether it should be considered to introduce restrictions on the movement of the Emergency Act in order to better protect the groups at risk and thus the entire health care sector and its capacity?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u60	Mr President! That question of testing is very important. I believe that there were so many of us who did not understand when this testing strategy changed, because it is the most logical thing to do, as has been the case in many other countries in the world, to test as much as possible. At some point we then changed the strategy and no longer tested those who were symptomatic, not even those who thought they were at risk of carrying corona virus when they came from those areas, but were more restricted to risk groups or health care staff specifically on the special care side, and then HUShan made the move not even to test those who go to work only with the mask, which can be said, did not go out at all. We did not understand why this kind of test line change, and perhaps the minister could open up a little, which is why we are doing this in Finland, which is why it changed for testing. On the other hand, as a follow-up to this: you have said that there is an attempt to increase testing, but what is the effort to increase and facilitate the testing of people, including the testing of the people and the private sector in the primary health care services, and, on the other hand, the way to the citizens concerned? The logical thing would be to act in such a way that if there is doubt and wondering whether I am carrying a corona virus, or if there are symptoms of any kind, then you would get that test as if there were a possible infector. And now that we have the provisions of the Emergency Act on how to deal with it, that we can also, then, between health care units, assign operators, workers, possibly to other units or other types of jobs, it would also be very important to know that a person does not carry the virus. Then, in fact, the reason why I actually asked for this speech was my question about the possible use of medicines. However, we have received a message from the world that some medicines have been used successfully in China and Japan and, for example, in Israel, medicines have been used for experimental purposes, medicines that have been used in the past for some other diseases, for example, for malaria or HIV, on the other hand, some antiviral medicines that have produced good results from the world. In Finland, there is a tradition of being very strict in the use of medication, i.e. if it has not been studied and placed on the market specifically for that disease, the possibilities for use are quite limited, but now we have a completely new disease in question and yet good results have been obtained from the world that some medicines have been successfully used there — symptoms have improved considerably faster, the same changes in the lungs have stabilised and improved considerably faster. I would like to ask: have we had such a debate? It is hoped that this would be the case in Finland, too, that medicines of this kind could be used more easily in experimental use, for which it has been established that they are safe, and which have already been used in other indications, but also in the treatment of diseases caused by different viruses. In conclusion, I would also like to join in thanking those involved in the field, in health care and in medical care, and then in the ministries for the efforts made by both ministers and officials. We are living in exceptional times and times when there really is a lot of information and we need to know quickly whether there are very large and far-reaching solutions to be said, and thank you for being admiring us, and thank you for the fact that the Minister is still here this evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u61	Then Minister Kiuru, five minutes. Let's hope that's enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u62	Mr President! There were a lot of questions and perhaps a little confusion about it. I will now try very quickly to go through this whole thing. Firstly, Mr Tanus, we insist that the Government has stated that Finns who have returned from abroad and those who live in Finland are in fact now obliged to quarantine conditions, and in this respect it also applies to social and health care staff, which was agreed before these policies were adopted for the whole country. In this regard, this is important, because the last thing that matters is that during the peak weeks when the epidemic is starting to peak, we need all the professionals, and that means that there can be no corona virus nesting in the hospital network, which then spreads from one staff member to another. In order to prevent this, action was taken earlier, and we have then read afterwards that there is no need to do so. As far as this case of South Korea is concerned, I was not able to verify whether the real numbers of that one article are correct, but if they are correct, then in South Korea, in practice, there have been 200,000 tests carried out in South Korea, and that would mean that we are in the same country very quickly. So the population of South Korea is about ten times that of Finland, and their 200,000 tests would be equivalent to 20,000 in that same relationship, in proportion to the population, if I understand this correctly. So we are, could we say, in the front row here, namely raising our testing capacity is going precisely to ensure that we are moving at the very same pace as in this example? I would be more concerned about the examples that have not taken seriously the increase in the testing capacity. We had 1200 tests yesterday. According to the information I received, there would have been 1500 today. Testing capacity has been agreed by the Government last Thursday, and now, on Monday of this week, Parliament's wish that testing capacity be further increased is still in force. There are certain restrictions, not only on this CE marking, on the testing methods that are still missing on the market, but, ultimately, on staff and protective equipment. We already have drive-in services and new inventions of this kind that have been in use in the world. In this respect, we will do everything we can to increase the testing capacity. Then the next set was this part of intensive care. Today I said that I would only be speaking tomorrow, but now that the President is allowing this 5 minutes to be spent on this, I would say that we currently have 300 intensive care facilities in Finland. That means the actual physical breathing equipment when the question was asked about how many devices we have to deal with. There are 200 power controls. Now our plan at this first stage is that we should be able to raise this to 1000. It is a big job, and these new opportunities, as a result of the Emergency Act, will mean that we will have to give up part of this emergency surgery capacity and then both retrain the operating room staff to keep the power controls and some of this resource, especially for anesthesiologists, could also be available through retraining to maintain intensive care facilities. In this respect, these will come into force as soon as we have these new opportunities once we have this matter under discussion here. Then it is a very important debate on private and public cooperation. There will be a great deal of opportunities here today to make use of this opportunity by region. It is quite clear that in Uusimaa, the adequacy of the staff and the adequacy of the facilities will be measured in terms of how agile we are, and I believe that public and private cooperation here in particular will provide better solutions than we will in future borrow people from those medical districts. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u63	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 5/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should be repealed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u64	Mr President! We each build this country with our own work and serve one another. Many in these abnormal times do unscrupulous work to save and help others. Healthcare staff will be trained in accordance with the ideas of continuous learning for the treatment of corona and special tasks. We are all expected to be flexible. This adoption regulation already in force by the Government will make it more flexible to declare annual leave, to give annual leave, to postpone annual leave and to suspend it. The regulation allows for an abnormal consent to overtime, an abnormal maximum working time and an abnormal rest period. The Regulation also extends the period of notice. These temporary powers may apply to persons working in health care, social services, rescue services, emergency services and police services. These are for me, as a brother of three police officers and one social worker, in areas close to the future. These professionals are protecting and helping us. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we unanimously propose that the regulation should remain in force, that it should not be repealed. We need this regulation so that we can ensure that health care and other social actors are able to function adequately during this pandemic, that there are enough helpful and protective hands. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that powers should only be introduced when the need is necessary. Actions must be proportionate to the objectives pursued. Article 4 of this Implementing Regulation to provide for an extension of the notice The application of the paragraph of this provision is also conditional on the need to extend the period of notice in the interests of the health, minimum income or safety of our population. In such a limited and justified manner, the extension of the period of notice fulfils the requirement of proportionality. Mr President! I would like to thank all the authorities for their perseverance and hard work in these abnormal times. You are doing a very valuable and unscrupulous job — strength for you. Overcoming this disease is our common challenge. That is where we all need to be. I believe that we Finns also want to be flexible in our work when a neighbor is in distress. Let's take care of the others.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u65	Mr President! Just one comment. These statements and conclusions of the Constitutional Committee are very good and worthy of support. Only one point on this issue will I draw attention to. It is stated here that the Constitutional Affairs Committee draws attention to the fact that, according to Article 4 of the Act on Preparedness, ‘the powers of the law may be exercised only in such ways as to fulfil the purpose of the law and, in a proper manner, to the main objective of exercising the power ‘and’to intervene in the annual leave andtimes of work of the So you could say with a little humour that a warm heart beats in the chest of the chairman and members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the advice of the committee when you have to take all the points into account. Of course, when such big laws are enacted and in a timely manner to overcome the difficult situation, the Constitutional Committee nevertheless draws attention to the need to ensure that this worker’s own life remains healthy and able to work, so one can say that a warm heart beats in the chest of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u66	Mr President! This regulation is indeed necessary in this situation in order to ensure the availability of workers in these critical sectors. In this respect, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done such a good job that it has indeed wanted to take a position that these measures must always be proportionate and, on the one hand, that this Act is also justified by the provisions relating to the notification and transfer and suspension of annual leave and, on the other hand, the extension of working time, rest periods and the protection against dismissal, which will then take effect this extension of the four-month period of notice. It is of the utmost importance now, in the coming weeks, that society is indeed able to take such decisions, which are flexible in taking account of the situation in these particular areas of crisis and are able to take care of these workers. We have now seen from all over Europe, especially from southern Europe, how the workers in these critical sectors are stretched to the limit, and there, at night, the citizens have gathered in some countries to give applause when they come home on the evening shift. Let us hope that we in Finland would not be in a rush to such situations, but it is very important that we, here in Parliament, now have these exceptional regulations in place, and thus we are in the process of preparing for this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u67	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 1/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u68	Mr President! This report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is a government proposal that makes national social security and insurance legislation compatible with the EU General Data Protection Regulation. It should be noted that the EU Data Protection Regulation is directly applicable law, so it is proposed to repeal the conflicting and overlapping provisions of the Regulation. This is why it is perhaps significant that we already had this similar government proposal at the end of the last period, but it expired in March 2019. I would point out that the main difference with the previous proposal is that the present proposal does not contain regulation on automatic decision-making. This is not what we have before us this time, and I can say that the Constitutional Committee, in its own opinion at the end of the last parliamentary term, stated that this automatic decision-making should be abolished, and there were other positions from the Constitutional Committee at the time, and they have now been taken into account and adopted accordingly. I would also like to point out here that it is very important that we bring this into force quickly. We have had a contradictory situation here with regard to this data protection regulation, but then, after quite a thorough debate in committee and after extensive expert consultation and also after the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it became clear that this automatic decision-making process is being discussed and that we still do not have regulations and that it is being clarified at the moment on behalf of the Ministry of Justice. In particular, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed that this should be specified and, at the moment, this sort of study and preparatory work is being carried out overall. It is not simple, it has already been examined by the Ministry of Justice, and this will hopefully go forward in the coming months, and this was also the opinion of a number of experts in the committee. That is why this is such an important issue, not just social security or insurance legislation, but also the fact that we have had the tax authorities' automation decisions before us in the early part of the year, for example, and it has been said that we cannot suddenly suspend our taxes, of course, we are in a rather exceptional situation, but we must be corrected. This is difficult to do, but we, as a committee, are actually proposing to the whole House here that we adopt the following statement: ‘The Commission requires that the government prepares the amendments to the general I note that this committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u69	Mr President! Indeed, as Mr Vehviläinen described here, so this EU regulation itself should be brought into our legislation, but this issue that arose, that is to say this automatic decision-making, is what is now being addressed. This statement by the committee is skilful and well-drafted and should then be promoted by the government. As such, the automatic decision-making, that automation, does not seem to me to be the thing to cling to, but, above all, the type of algorithms that are written on the back, which is, as it were, the guiding frame in which these decisions are made. That's where those mistakes happen if they're to happen. It is not in itself that we are able, for example, to process a large mass of information in such a way that it is faster and then it can be avoided even by making decisions in accordance with a specific rule, but that the biggest errors can then occur at the time of writing this algorithm. Today, if you look at the stock exchange prices that have been fluctuating in the world in recent days, there is, for example, this particular problem behind it, that there may be such miswritten algorithms, which in themselves make oversized stock exchange increases or bills in general. Thank you, Mr Vehviläinen has explained this very well, and it is hoped that this automatic decision-making by yourself will then proceed and that the relevant articles will also be brought before Parliament in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u70	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 3/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u71	Mr President! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection dealt with this government's proposal and I think it was a good report. The report states that this law is necessary. To that end, experts were consulted, and the report is, moreover, unanimous, so that I think we have achieved a good result in committee. I would like to thank all the members of the committee who have been involved for their good cooperation and, in particular, the experts we have heard. In any event, this is the case with regard to the plan for the management of the sea, and amendments are made to the law under consideration, which fulfils the letter and spirit of Article 80 of the Constitution, i.e. when the waters are managed and the sea is managed, there are also certain measures to be taken under the law, and since Article 80 of the Constitution requires that certain measures be taken under the law. says in a very clear Finnish language that all obligations and rights imposed on citizens must always be taken into the law; they cannot be laid down in the regulation, and now these requirements are brought directly into this law so that they comply with the requirement of Article 80 of the Constitution. Then, when these different samples are often taken from the sea and the waters, it is usually private property, i.e. on the shores and near some property, so now we take into the law the clear rules as to how to act here, so that the authority has clear instructions as to how to do, so that we do not have to compose and then have to conflict with the local people. Mr President! I should like to draw attention to one more point. This is the spirit of the current Constitution, according to which the rights and obligations imposed on the citizen must always be taken into law. At present, significant changes in nature conservation laws are currently taking place in Finland, which are very hard to deal with hunting rights. This bill, which is now at first reading, is a good example of the fact that very minor matters affecting citizens' rights and obligations must be taken into account. I am referring to the forthcoming regulations that are being taken through by the Ministry of the Environment. Yes, changes that seriously interfere with citizens' rights must be taken directly into the law, in accordance with the Constitution. I will take that as an exception, even if it is not part of the actual issue. But this bill has now received a good report and the committee unanimously supports it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u72	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u73	Mr President! This is not the case today, of course, but perhaps it would be appropriate to try to constrain the virus from China, and this bill will then try to constrain the electoral funding from China in the future or from outside the country. This bill concerns the amendment of Article 4 of the Election Financing Act. I and 20 other MPs from almost every parliamentary party propose that the law be amended so that foreign support for the election campaign can no longer be received from a private individual. This is section 4 of the Election Finance Act. to lay down restrictions on the candidate’s election At the moment, the candidate or the support group of the candidate and the other entity providing support exclusively for the candidate may receive foreign support for the election campaign only from individuals and from international communities or foundations representing the cause of the candidate. After all, the Ministry of Justice had such a committee, which considered election funding and even then suggested that a candidate should not receive foreign funding from anyone other than his own international cooperation organisations, but that this was not the case at the time. I believe that the transparency of political election funding can never be emphasised enough. Any ambiguity or even the possibility of confusion with regard to political funding must be eliminated, because everything is based on trust in our democratic system. I believe that election funding should be based on transparency and independence in all cases. However, this transparency is difficult to assess in precisely these cases, when it comes to election support from a foreign individual. It is very difficult to determine origin in many circumstances. The Commission of the Ministry of Justice, which I referred to earlier, already stated that the grant or aid should not be received if its source cannot be identified. Transparency is also highlighted in the assessment of the independence of the MP in relation to foreign powers. Among other things, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has raised the issue of foreign influence on elections in other countries. Such influence is a cause for concern and is a serious threat to democracy. Mr President! In February, the Ministry of Justice set up a working group to investigate the development needs of the electoral law, party law and electoral funding law and other legislation related to political activities. I hope — well, I do not urge, but I hope — that my former colleagues, the party secretaries, will also take part in this legislative initiative. I believe it is time to change the electoral funding law in a more transparent and transparent direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u74	Mr President! I am one of those former party secretaries, and as they say, the career of a party secretary may end well or he may become a representative of parliament. Indeed, the greater groundwork of the electoral funding law, could you say, was done at the time when these electoral financial advances were made public, and then Lauri Tarasti was set up to set up a committee and went on to thoroughly clean up the way in which this election funding could be made transparent in Finland and the election support provided by these various foundations and various organisations and others close to the party community would be seen there at party level, and then, on the other hand, the election funding received by the candidates from individuals would be equally transparent. There was groundwork, but, of course, a lot of thought has had to be given to the direction in which the legislation should be corrected, for example, a campaign roof. It has been discussed several times in this Chamber and the question of how perhaps we should limit who can provide this election funding. Even then, this possibility for foreign foundations and associations of the same ideals to provide electoral funding was already recorded, because it was looked at and said today, it is actually considered even more that, within the European Union, for example, many parties are united by such European political families and there is a great deal of cooperation within them: Finnish parties pay membership fees there, and then, on the other hand, they receive various forms of electoral support during the elections. This is generally very transparent in many respects, because the European Parliament and the European Union, on the one hand, monitor this spending and, on the other hand, think that each country has its own legislation and its own monitoring of this funding. But the representative who made this bill Of course, Ovaska has raised one of these, could you say, from electoral sources in a slightly greyer area, i.e. from private individuals, specifically from foreign individuals? In principle, of course, you might think that, since this legislation includes a point that, if the source of funding cannot be identified, this could already be taken into account, but then, on the other hand, we have to think a little about the legislation in a different direction. If you think that a person who has lived in Finland for a long time but has not yet received Finnish citizenship, for example, even though in municipal elections you want to support a colleague of yours, I do not know whether Mr Ovaska has wondered whether, even in such a situation, this funding should be such as to be punishable or not to be given — that is to say, a person who is still a Finnish citizen but not a Finnish citizen. Quite a lot of different parties we have tried to encourage new Finns to go to municipal elections where they do not yet need that citizenship, it is enough to have a permanent place of residence in Finland, and in that sense I was wondering whether this could perhaps become a barrier to the party activity of these people and perhaps limit their involvement as a supporter and then at some point as a candidate. I do not know whether Mr Ovaska has considered this matter here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u75	Mr President! Election funding is appropriate from time to time and has also been dealt with by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, for example, with regard to this electoral ceiling, it was not concluded that there was, for example, an upper limit. Then this foreign funding is another aspect, and we must be extremely vigilant about it. Recent news inevitably tells us that Finland is also an interesting target and there are attempts to influence. When the law on election funding was made in time, the spirit was to increase transparency, but in all respects it is not being implemented in practice. Each of us has certainly seen newspaper announcements where the payer is not visible, even though the parliamentary term is going to take place, and even if the payer is there, there may be a “everything good all-rounder ” or a manager who does not have the same key, where the money has come from. In that respect, we should follow. In the Audit Committee we have the reports of the National Audit Office on the control of election funding, and it seems that the draft report is also ready, but for some reason the report is not ready, so we will come back to that later. We have drawn attention to these issues there and we will continue to follow this up in the Committee on Audit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u76	Mr President! Thank you very much for your excellent contributions. It is just as Mr Essayah said that in this initiative I wanted to exclude these particular sister parties or others at European level, with whom cooperation will certainly become even closer in the coming years. As far as people who move to Finland but who do not own Finnish citizenship are concerned, I have nevertheless submitted this initiative and thought that they will have the opportunity to support them in other ways, for example, by taking part in voluntary activities, by buying campaign products, lotteries and so on, which means that they will have the means to do so. And, of course, I myself am aiming for more people who have moved to Finland to participate in political activities. It's very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u77	Mr President! A small addition: the information from the Audit Committee that the Government has set up a parliamentary working party in the Government Programme of Prime Minister Marin to examine the need for amendments to the electoral law, party law and electoral funding law, so that work is being done.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u80	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. The debate was suspended at the plenary session on 13 March 2020. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u81	Mr President! Last time I was in the middle of a conversation. This hunt... Now I'm gonna have to pick up some thoughts when I get here so fast. Well, first of all, thank you, Minister Rest. About a year and a half ago, in November 2018, in Urjala, Pirkanmaa, deer were organized to deal with these issues. The populations in Punkalaitume and Urjala in southern Pirkanmaa are very large and cause problems, not just traffic, but animals are already coming to people's courtyards and gardens. Some things came up at that deer night. The Minister, perhaps half-time, said that we should move on to the model of ‘ shooting out ’ — maybe even longer, but, for example, the height of his dogs has been changed in an attempt to improve the situation. Attention should be paid to the number of hunting permits and to these types of issues. These alien species and their overgrowth in relation to carrying capacity are things that must be followed. One major problem: hunters do valuable work, are disciplined people, and the problem for them is that many members of hunting clubs are getting older, and we need to think about how we can get the younger generation involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u82	Mr President! I believe that this bill is very timely and important. In the hunt for moose, this requirement for a 1,000-ha hunting area exists, and in the white-tailed deer it is 500 hectares. The population of this alien species, the white-tailed deer, imported to Finland in the 1930s has grown enormously. It is more than 100,000 individuals today. I know that those game-keeping circles have sent a direct call to the game-keeping associations and hunting clubs to try to use all the permits granted as quickly as possible, because this white-tailed deer population is growing exponentially, and, as Mr Kiuru mentioned in his speech, they are beginning to invade the yard circles and cause traffic accidents, and then there are various parasitic diseases which will then, of course, spread as this population grows. That is why this abolition of the 500 hectares of hunting area would make it easier for even smaller hunting clubs to catch a yacht, and it would be a huge help to cut this oversized stock if this bill were to go through. Once again, Mr President, when I mentioned the nature protection law and now the imposition of new nature reserves in Finland, the Ministry of the Environment is now driving over there so that they can be dealt with through the regulation, it is actually the same thing. If these nature reserves are set up by regulation and not by legislation, then, for example, in my municipality of origin and in all the municipalities on the eastern border, deer hunting in practically many areas will end when the hunting grounds break down and go below a thousand hectares. We'll stop hunting, and then we'll be in big trouble. I warmly support the legislative initiative that has been taken and I hope that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry will take a positive view and, above all, take note of this. In this regard, it would be worthwhile for the people of southern Finland to be active and representatives of the people and to support this initiative to get this oversized position under control and then these spreading diseases, which this animal is spreading, would also be brought under control.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u83	Mr President! Hunting is a very important, brisk, communal and healthy hobby and lifestyle for many. Support for outdoor activities is well suited to this speciality period of the corona, when many social activities within the community are interrupted. Hunters are the guardians of the diversity of our nature. When they take care of the stock, it plays an important role, among other things, in road safety. The Natural Resources Agency estimates that there are about 110000 white-tail deer in Finland, which means that the stock has doubled in more than five years. On our way, too, you sometimes have to watch out for deer herds as you drive from Lake Reis towards Siev. In many other areas the problem is much more difficult. As a party, the Centre Party has committed itself to ensuring that the populations of deer, deer and deer in our country are kept on a sustainable level, taking into account the damage caused by them. Minister Of course, a lot of good measures have already been taken by the rest to promote the management of deer stock. These include raising the dog’s lucky height, extending hunting periods, increasing the number of permits to record levels and targeting females and so on. But this initiative is also needed to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u84	Mr President! This bill by Mr Junnila can indeed be supported. A number of colleagues have already pointed out how this excessive population of white tails, particularly here in southern Finland, poses a real threat to traffic, and, for example, in its own parliamentary group, in that group, there are those people who are concerned about this same issue in spring and autumn, saying that nothing really can be done about this. This abolition of the 500 hectares limit, in order to reduce this surplus stock, would certainly be extremely important. There was also the fact that the age structure of hunting clubs is beginning to be worrying, which means that not all young people necessarily find hunting for their hobby, and in that sense it may be even more difficult to hunt such stock management, which we in Finland have in a fine way on the shoulders of voluntary non-governmental organisations. I therefore hope that when we have amendments to both the hunting law and the arms law in Finland, it would always be taken into account that hunting activities could continue to be something in which young people will find their way and then be able to participate in such activities for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-19-ps-29.u85	Mr President! I'll be more specific about that parasite strain. The white-tailed deer also carries a huge amount of ticks in its skin that spreads known diseases, this tick-brain fever, which under certain circumstances is a very dangerous disease, and the animal is a small bug that certainly does not enjoy the approval of the signatory. Just as mentioned in the bill, if the white-tail deer population is reduced, the tick problem will also be reduced, and it will be a public health issue if anything. Then, as mentioned in the initiative and also in Wikipedia's data, the white-tailed deer has begun to cause enormous damage to gardens and crops. It begins to be the farmers' trouble, and then when it has these particular features that have just been mentioned spread the ticks around, it begins to be even a huge problem for such a population in certain regions of southern Finland. I would hope that this bill will be successful and that, in principle, it will only be possible to reduce the 500 hectares of hunting area which is bureaucratically controlled, even to 100 hectares, so that we can deal quickly with the major problems at the local level. Hunting clubs know how to do this. They have organized activities and skilled hunters, and all the meat that comes out of that game animal is very valuable, and I'm sure... It's that so-called organic meat. When it has eaten Finnish clean nature, which is healthy and grown in the forest, it is also an excellent steak at the table of hungry people.
