ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u2	Mr President! I don't spend much of this 45 minutes. This proposal proposes an increase of EUR 13.7 million in the appropriations provided for in the seventh additional budget and increases the amount of net borrowing by the corresponding amount. This is a brief presentation. Otherwise, as far as this economic situation is concerned, it must be said that this epidemic is developing in the West and the East and in the South, in all our main markets, with the exception of China, in a very worrying way. We have a long winter ahead of us if this view continues as it is. The news of the vaccine that came gives hope and prospects that at some point the situation will become clearer, but the closest times do not seem clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u3	Madam President! Good Minister for Finance and good colleagues and others present and following in plenary! This supplementary proposal from LTA 7 will further increase government debt. This year's figure is now quite precisely 19.7 billion more central government debt. This is about the security and critical infrastructure of Kela's benefit systems, improved security of supply, measures to be taken — 10 million — and then a small increase in the costs of corona testing and tracing in Åland. I myself was waiting for answers to these worrying messages in this supplementary proposal as far as the business field is concerned at the moment. These messages are coming from our service industry all the time. For example, from Riihimäki, a neighbor of my municipality of residence, I received a message from a company offering sports massages and this type of physical service, how it was still found out in the spring how the order books were filled up some more in the summer and now another stop has come. People are afraid to use these services, even though they have not actually been caught. We have also talked a lot about the field of events in this Chamber. For example, one big package for which I expected corrections is that we have the support that can be given to companies. After all, the Finnish Government has planned to take a new decision on aid of up to EUR 500000 to companies distributed by the Treasury, and this decision is based on the loss of income caused by the corona virus epidemic. I would have asked the Minister for Finance, when he is here to deal with this economic issue with us, why the government is still sticking to this same proposal, that the aid ceiling for receiving the aid should be EUR 800000 per undertaking. I understand that the ceiling has been justified by an EU decision, but if I have understood correctly, the EU has, for example, updated this question by means of a notice dated 13 October 1920 and changed the fact that the ceiling would be EUR 3 million in support of fixed costs if the company had lost at least 30% of its turnover. This is a rather severe test for many of our companies at the moment, such as cinemas and the film industry, but also for a wide range of events, and I would like to ask whether the government is prepared to re-evaluate this once the EU has now raised this ceiling to that EUR 3 million. Well, then, the tourism and restaurant sector is very special, and I would have expected a little bit of it to have already been possible to make certain targets with the supplementary budget, even in this very difficult situation, which is what is happening in the case of tourism in Lapland. The Lapland District has already made some tough speeches about the fact that the Government has not been able to act here, and the messages from Lapland are very harsh. These measures would now be needed to safeguard these thousands of companies, but tens of thousands of jobs. This would have been perhaps the last place where it would have been good to have introduced those measures. In fact, this is not about the fact that there were no proposals on tourism in Lapland. Rami Korhonen, the operational director of Lapland Safaris, has told the public that the sector already made concrete solutions to this situation in August, and it might have been expected that, when it was not enough time to include it as a whole in this supplementary proposal, it could have come. Of course, we expect these measures beyond the supplementary budget, but the fact is that these tourism and restaurant companies will not be able to survive this winter without state financial assistance and investment. I would therefore like to hear the Minister of Finance's assessment of this maximum aid ceiling, which the EU has now converted from EUR 800000 to EUR 3 million. Why does the government continue to rely on that outdated information and use it to justify this ceiling? On the side of the big players, this roof has already arrived.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u4	Mr President! As we know, public finances are being undermined by the economic downturn following the outbreak of the pandemic and by the government's efforts to support businesses, citizens and economic growth. The Government is committed to securing Finnish well-being and the survival of companies beyond the crisis with minimal damage. So far, Finland has succeeded in keeping the interest rate well under control through timely and well-measured measures. Keeping the disease under control is still the most important issue for Finnish society in the coming weeks and months. In order to prevent the spread of the virus again, and at the same time to keep society and the economy as open as possible, everything must be done together. This is the most impressive economic policy in the near future until effective corona vaccine is actually introduced. I've heard some promising news about the Korona vaccine. In the light of this news, we can leave with hope for next year and for a new era of growth. The fact that Finland's economic situation has developed slightly better than expected this year shows, for example, that the needs assessments of social benefits are being reduced in the seventh amending budget. President! The arts and culture sector has suffered significantly from the corona epidemic. Restrictions and uncertainty about the future slow down the resumption of cultural life and the return of people to art. In particular, the so-called free field of art and culture, which is not part of the central government system and is heavily self-funded, has been tumbling. The seventh amending budget will allow for a maximum of EUR 8 million to be used as grants for the allocation of arts and culture. The actual amending budget had forgotten to mention the names of the activities, and this error is now being corrected in this proposal, and that is a good thing. The arts and culture sector brings experiences and improves quality of life. To support it beyond the crisis also gives us hope for a better future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u5	Mr President! The state budget is like a famous jar of life, which is filled in order of importance with stones, gravel and sand, representing the size and importance of things. When the jar is filled, you have to think about what you're giving up. There are a few major sections of the budget, a large stone in the budget jar, which makes up the bulk of the expenditure. These large stones also take up a major part of our attention, since they are the most important expenditure that affects citizens most. After all, there is almost always talk of billions and targets that never seem to have enough money. There is still a lot of expenditure between the large spending blocks in the budget jar, things that require a lot of input from society, smaller expenditure targets, but there are a considerable number of them. From these, we are beginning to look at the speaker for a long time whether he does not know how to keep priorities. Finally, there is still an amazing amount of spending sand in the jar: an endless list of items with a price tag ranging from zero to a few million, perhaps ten or twenty million. They say they only talk about these things when they're in their village, when they're in their own town. Madam President! As in life in a budget economy, a jar can become far too heavy a position. Big spending stones can get bigger and bigger, and they can become more. Still, they should still fit in the jar so that we can carry it. But while we have been thinking about the biggest, most important things, the jar has been filled with less important gravel and sand. Now that we have had to use a jar much larger than our carrying capacity in the first place because of the interest rate, we are used to spending more and more gravel and sand there, including new ones that have never had any room anywhere before. Adults know that when you have to fit in a lot of big and important things, you have to reduce smaller and less important things. Everyone in this room has had to do this. The same should apply to our budgetary process, but unfortunately this is not the case. Madam President! The budgetary process for 2021 is under way and alternative budgets are being drawn up. At the same time, the government is marching on this year’s amending budgets and their additions — as you are doing now with this seventh one — at an exhilarating pace. The problem with the whole process is that when it does not in any way eliminate waste, inefficiency, unnecessary or irrelevant action and their costs, i.e. the scrap and sand accumulated in the jar, everything that has ever ended up in the jar begins to live its own life and becomes an automatically growing fixed cost. You can't fit big and important things in a jar just by talking about big and important things. Space must be given by talking about the removal of everything that is wasted and unnecessary and irrelevant, precisely those things that the Finns of Peru have been talking about consistently and for a long time, not grain at a time, but by deciding on political and operational management principles, principles that we always take at least the same amount of waste, irrelevant gravel and sand away from the budget jar. By acting in accordance with these principles, we will achieve economic balance and the common money will be sufficient for the most important: the well-being, security and the future of Finland and Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u6	Madam President! This proposal proposes an increase of almost EUR 14 million in the amending budget. These sites are certainly necessary, i.e. improving the security of the benefit systems of the Social Insurance Institution and replacing the testing and tracing of the corona virus in Åland, but it is certainly worth discussing that this year's net borrowing of the state is close to EUR 20 billion. The government and the cooperation between the government and the opposition must be acknowledged that, to date, Finland has apparently been the best survivor of the epidemic in the European countries, and these financial efforts, which we have now had to increase together, have also been necessary in this situation. However, it is worrying, just as the Minister for Finance said, that this epidemic seems to be dragging on. It looks very worrying. Although these vaccine news is hopeful and positive, it is still far, perhaps until the end of next year, at least the beginning of that year, that we will have to keep these restrictions, and it is indeed to be feared that companies will be increasingly tight, and I fear that we will see a wave of bankruptcy in the near future. For all of this reason, the government would now also need to give some light on how to deal with these debts in due course, because it would also help to build confidence in the economy and that, after this difficult epidemic situation, our economy will be on a sustainable path. That is why, above all, we expect solutions and decisions from the government on structural reforms and employment measures that could strengthen the competitiveness of companies in a sustainable way and also encourage them to take up work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u7	President! These draft amending budgets now come during the corona like a conveyor belt. The additions in the motion here today are largely to be welcomed. However, I would look forward to prioritising things. In the big picture, Finland is facing three huge problems, and I would expect adequate, targeted, preventive measures. These already bring huge expenses to the state, and if nothing is done, they will explode in the hands of the government. We all, as well as the government programme, rely on employment measures. In particular, there is a need for profitable work on the private side. Next, the problems of the mind and, in particular, the problems of the minds of children and young people — the financial resources that really affect the problem. Many of the reasons for this problem are already known, but their preventive measures are waiting. We have the most mental problems in the OECD countries, which is good to keep in mind. Third, an explosively growing dependency ratio. Measures would be awaited. Mr Kivisaari raised the issue of business support here. It is very sad to read in the papers almost weekly how these subsidies have run out on well - run companies and those who are now distributing large dividends. This isn't the right targeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u8	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for a good introduction. It was fast and targeted. In this context, I must say that Finland has done very well with regard to health care, that is to say, with regard to public health care, with regard to the treatment of this interest rate, and that is certainly one important issue that must also be looked at at at European level and probably at global level. At the moment, when you look at the list of diseases in neighbouring countries too, Finland’s policy in this situation of interest rate has been very good. Thank you for these contributions. First of all, the 7 amending budget has already made a significant contribution to these corona-related activities, but I would like to point out here that, in amending budget 4, amending budget 6 and amending budget 7, the support for municipalities and hospital districts has been increased, and in total this is EUR 2.6 billion. So we are talking about a very large amount at the moment, and the money has indeed gone to important events. On Friday, I was in my own province on a tour, and there was really good feedback to the government on these measures against corona and on support for municipalities and health care districts and also for companies that have lost significantly. Above all, this tourism situation in Lapland – and also the situation affecting Kainuu – is a real shame. It must also be borne in mind that it is not caused by the government but by the interest rate and, of course, the opportunities we have in the government and Parliament as a whole to support businesses are limited. And, as has been mentioned here, in this situation too, we need to think very much about what will be the continuation of this interest rate overall, in what way it will perhaps continue next year. We should be prepared for that, too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u9	Irade fru talman! Regeringen höjer i förslaget budgetanslaget från 5 till 6 million euro för att tacka kostnaderna för att man på Åland ska kunna haantera sjukårdskostnaderna somberor på coronaviruset, bland you give testning och spårnning av coronasmitta. Det rauta dillaggsförslaget är mycket bra och välkommet eftersom vi snabbt constaterade förra veckan i remissdebatten rai i plenisalen att 5 millioner, som man först budgeterade, inte skullle rellräckligt. Det brode reserve EUR 6 million, Vilket man nu föreslår. Jag är tacksam för regeringens snabba agerande ox att man snabbt municipalities justera sumn. Det var viktigt också på ett principiellt plan, jack för det, och finansministeriest tjänstemän har ra ox variant mycket hjälpsamma. Irade fru talman! Det är mycket att staten budgeterar medel för att tacka coronakostnaderna också på Åland. Lagen om smittsamma sjukdomar är rikets behörighet och ett principbeslut fanns sedan tidigare om att staten skulle finansiera testerna och spårningen också på Åland. Det är viktigt att staten finansierar detta så att testningen aldrig blir en kostnadsfråga. Testing och spårning är centralt i Finlands coronastrategia och för att kunna bibehålla det goda coronaläget som nu råder både i Finland och på Åland, i alla fall i en europeisk och global Jämförelse. Irade the Talman! Det auri ska vi hålla i eftersom det är grunden för att samhället ska kunna hållas så öppet som det är i dag. Det ox är en stor contrast mot andra europeiska lännder där galpperande bekräftade fall gjort att man tvingats till hårda nedstanningar. De blir inte bara jobbiga att genomföra, med stor negativ påverkan på det vardagliga livet, utan också mycket mera kostsamma än att testa och spåra effektivt i ett tidigt skde som man nu gör, även om det så klart också kostar. Ålands kostnader för corona inom social- och älsovården har variety ungefär 6 million euro för detta år, Vilket per capita i Finland är rätt lågt. Anledningen till det är att man bara hast 43 fall på Åland. Inte ett enda har behövt intensivård och bara enstaka fall har behövt sjukård. Det är ändå viktigt att poängtera att merkostnader inte enbart uppkommit för testande och spårning. Därför har staten compenserat sjukårdsdistrikt och kommuner för andra coronakostnader i landet. Samma sak brode också gälla Åland. Här är budgetförslaget lite oklart. Det skulle därför vara viktigt att finansutskottet tog detta i beaktande vid behandlingen av det är lagförslaget. De budgeterade pengarna brode användas för att tacka också sjukgårdens kostnader för corona, inte enbart testning och spårning, i likhet med vad som gäller för övriga kommuner och sjukgårdsdistrikt som har komenserat för detta, Vilket vi hörde just av ledamot Pierainen, men via andra budgetmoment. Pengarna i momentet räcker nu för att tacka Ålands sjukårdskostnader för corona, inclusive testning och spårning, så det behövs inte mer pengar för det, men det är viktigt att inte begränsa användningen av medlen till enbart testning och spårning på Åland, detta för att bekämpningen av viruset ska kunna fortsätta vaa så effektiv som den hittillis harvarit. Det är därför viktigt att komensera dem fullt ut, och jag önskar bull att finansutskottet kunde säkerstalla detta med en skrivning exempelvis i betankandet där man kunde undertryka den ox sakan.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u10	Madam President! This proposal, which complements the seventh draft amending budget, is, of course, necessary and definitely appropriate at this time. A few additional funds will be available for the prevention of the interest rate and then for after-care, and in this case, of course, Kela will also receive additional input for its own needs. In fact, in this situation, you could say that almost 20 billion more debts will be taken out this year than is estimated, that it is a matter that has been absolutely necessary for us to really be able to deal with this terrible situation. It is of great importance that we are able to protect our own citizens, save lives, and another aspect of the matter is definitely that we are able to ensure that Finnish companies continue to operate and prevent its massive wave of bankruptcy. Now, however, there is so much light at the end of the tunnel that quite a few vaccine companies have already announced that they are already on the way to the market for a perfectly valid vaccine against corona. However, we should all be prepared to bear the responsibility for the spread of the interest rate, which means that it is extremely important to assume personal responsibility in this situation. It is a matter of number one, of our own protection, of washing hands and of arranging various meetings so that we are not ourselves spreading that disease forward, but rather of slowing it down and keeping its own circle safe, because each of us has that close circle, and it is extremely important in this situation to act safely and to avoid unnecessary risks. As the vaccine is now spreading and people are being vaccinated — we do not really know yet, nor do scientists today know how well this vaccine provides protection, whether it will take five months, a year, three years, what it will take, or no one will know — it is so important that economic life is gradually started. However, this debt of almost 20 billion, which will have to be taken up this year, will one day have to be repaid. Mr President! Finally, a small remark: During the last parliamentary term, when we actively removed bureaucracy, we were able to create 140,000 new jobs. I remember that noise at the time. Of course, there must be votes against, the role of the opposition is that, but the Finns must now begin to realise that the creation of their own jobs in this country, the creation of genuine, real jobs, is the way in which we pay the debts. Let me take one example: While on Friday I drive home along that sixth road, it hurts my heart when there's always a terrible amount of Russian picket truck to pick up. We drive foreign wood to Finland, and the Finnish peat bog next to it is not used. The workers are in the cards and the entrepreneurs are in bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u11	Mr President! To Mrs Hoskonen, I would like to advise you that you are on the board, correct those shortcomings. This in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u15	Mr President! The government's debt burden is already approaching 20 billion, and the completion of the seventh amending budget now under discussion will certainly not be the last. Finland's additional debts are offset by interest rate and recovery, which is not actually done, but by making billions of debt support the Red-Green Climate Agenda instead of a real economic recovery, and money still seems to be sufficient to be allocated to inefficient development aid to an increasing extent. Central government net borrowing in 2020 is estimated at around EUR 19.7 billion. A larger Finland seems to be the guide for Europe in lending, and even more so in allocating its debt money. Of course, 8 million is a good pot to share with comrades in the name of art and culture. These scholarships, unfortunately, do not fill the stomach of the unemployed in Hurst's bread queues, nor does the state economy recover, but for the people there must be art and culture. After all, we live in the golden age of multiculturalism. This government's red-green policy is beginning to be very cold from the taxpayer's point of view and the use of money is reckless and the aid party centre is closing its eyes. We must also find money for all of this. I am absolutely surprised that, at the same time as additional budgets are being made, the government is destroying the livelihoods from which the funds could be made available for these budgets. Let me take one example, Mr President: Vapo has announced that he will have to close the peat from just over 300 to under 50. This supports the estimate that the price of dry peat will increase by up to 60% in the near future. The average peat cost of the farm is between 10000 and 20,000 per year. In broiler production peat is essential for the production of antibiotic-free meat. The European Union calls for a reduction in the use of antibiotics in animal production. The Government Programme provides for stricter animal welfare standards. Well, this is the perfect paradox for livestock farmers when the basic pillar of antibiotic-free production and animal welfare, peat, and especially its price, is so expensive that it endangers the profitability of farms and the welfare of animals, peat when there is no substitute in its characteristics or price. Yes, I would like to read additional budget proposals, answers from the government on how to secure the future of our agriculture, at least not through such measures, and how to secure the future of Finland's security of energy supply, at least not through such measures. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u16	Madam President! This is indeed the seventh amending budget for the current year. It should be remembered, however, that these conditions, in which we live, both in economic and social terms, are very exceptional, and that is why exceptional methods and practices are needed in the management of the state's finances, so I could describe this issue. In my opinion, Mr Östman has explained very well how this interest rate in its form, how it has faced many other societies, has been successfully combated in Finland thanks to unity and timely measures. I would also look forward to such a level of unity when it comes to the recovery of the national economy and the recovery of the national economy, as long as we hope that this crisis will be over as soon as possible. That is the kind of unity and consensus I did not hear in the previous speech by Mr Peltokangas — he has already left this Chamber. He had time to judge this debt. As far as debt-taking is concerned, we should remember that many other European countries, Finland's analogue countries, are really in debt because of this treatment of the corona crisis and then because of the recovery measures that are necessary to prevent the national economy from being hit so hard. According to studies, the Finnish economy has not yet been hit by the same kind of attack that has taken place in many other countries, but it is possible that the trend will be even worse. That is why we need to focus our attention on all the means to support the economic recovery after the corona crisis. I would like to raise one whole of this amending budget, which is precisely that, and that is the capitalisation of the climate fund, which I think is an important measure. In this regard, Mr Peltokangas has been able to condemn the whole of the Government's climate policy and environmental policy as harmful to Finland, but this climate fund is primarily a means of supporting investments in domestic renewable fuels, can be invested, can be generated by the state with such good development, and can also mobilise private money for these investments around Finland. For example, I am raising biogas, where investment is very large for individual small businesses, both farms and other companies, and I see that this climate fund is one of the tools for mobilising these investments in support of rural and rural development, which will boost climate policy. I hope that this will always be remembered when these climate measures are condemned to create, in the best case scenario,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u17	Madam President! In my speech, I should like to mention the reason why this is an economic crisis and this is a health crisis and the relationship between them. It may sound like being smart enough to wonder which is the greater crisis, because it is actually a one-size-fits-all, but I would first describe this issue as a health crisis. I would argue that in our country, so far, this corona epidemic has not actually been a public health crisis. By means of the public health crisis, I am referring, for example, to the crisis caused by tuberculosis between World War I and World War II in Finland, when between 6,000 and 900,000 people died each year. In the twenty years after the war, we had a significant death rate of heart disease in comparison with any other country. In time, we have more than 1,000 deaths per year in traffic, now that we are at 200 levels. But mental health, which Mr Koponen raised here, among other things, a moment ago, is currently the main cause of disability. These are public health issues that can even be spoken of as crises, but this corona epidemic has not in the same way now since caused such a public health crisis. The problem is, as we all know, that in modern society this kind of communicable disease, which may involve a 1 % mortality rate, is being prevented by reducing contact, and when the economy of our society is largely based on contact in many areas, so in order to overcome this disease we have created a situation in which we have actually caused an economic crisis in our own country as well as in the countries of our export industries. It is now quite right that, in this situation, massive resources should be invested in supporting municipalities and economic recovery in general. The present issue is a small complement to the actual seventh amending budget, which allocated EUR 750 million to the central government share of basic municipal services, of which EUR 400 million on a population basis and then EUR 350 million based on the money spent on testing and tracing municipal and hospital districts. Of course, we can discuss the fact that the timetable is now such that these have to be done in a rather formal way, but actually we should be able to better analyze where the problems are actually caused by the corona and where otherwise bad past financial management or other things like this. That is one of the issues that was discussed today in the Committee on Administrative Affairs, and this view will then be reflected in our report as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u18	We have spent almost all of the time available here, that is, 45 minutes. Finally, I will give the floor to Mr Vanhanen, Mr Vanhanen, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u19	Mr President! Mr Heinonen was in need of a return to what was done earlier this year, that these subsidies for businesses should be directed more sector-specificly, whereas now this new cost support is aimed specifically at involving all sectors of activity — I think that only the cultural sector has its own separate budget. I am in favour of this government's line of action to make up for industry-independent losses. The government is not raising this ceiling of EUR 800000 in the current proposal. In other words, regardless of the sector in which the aid is granted, the undertaking must have the right and the opportunity to receive the aid on the same objective grounds. Representative Bracelet defended the big and important issues of the budget and was willing to cut down on small, unnecessary things, as he said. Well, that's why we're working on an alternative budget. Throughout the autumn, the opposition has prepared alternative budgets, and we will wait until early December for these to arrive. There's an opportunity to present that option. Representative Peltokangas — it may be that he had a misunderstanding — criticises this appropriation by the Arts Promotion Centre. The purpose of this proposal is a change of purpose, which is specifically aimed at making it possible to use the appropriation for losses caused by the interest rate. Above all, wherever there has been an opportunity to use existing funds to deal with and correct this acute situation, this must be done. So this is not an additional allocation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u20	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u21	We will now resume the debate on the third item which has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u22	Mr President! Not in itself to this supplementary draft amending budget 7, but perhaps to that morning's debate on the government's economic policy and, as a whole, on these government's amending budgets: However, I think that this amending budget 7, which was already given in the past, well continues the important task of trying to survive despite these attacks and, with minimal human and financial damage, to create for Finns that belief in the future. The most important thing is that this has now been supported by amending budgets 4, 6 and 7 with a total of 2.6 billion municipalities and hospital districts, and it has also largely been able to secure our welfare services and that, in order not to have to go to staff and to be able to provide services. Well, there has already been this fixed-term business cost support here in other paragraphs of the debate, and now there is EUR 410 million in the proposal and then EUR 150 million in the previous undivided version. It is now extremely important for our companies over this long winter, and it is important that this legislation on cost support is also considered in the same context, both for the lower and the upper limits and for the use. Then, of course, attention will also be paid to this, and it is important that culture and performing art are also taken into account here in the amending budget. The government was attacked especially in the area of tourism in Lapland, and I think there is a reason for it not just in the government. After all, the whole of Europe is now closed, and it is pointless to point it in the direction of the government. I mean, we have to go first, don't we? Then, on the whole, to this economic policy: From the True Finns came the “stone,sora, sand ” description from the Government’s Department of Finance. All in all, if you look at these amending budgets, then the need for net borrowing after this amending budget will be 19.6 billion this year, of which the EUR 15.5 billion will be financing, in practice, as a result of the interest rate situation and interest rate, as well as more than 4 billion recovery measures, which will then actually implement the Government Programme and its future investments, and other expenditure increases will amount to around 1 billion,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u23	Mr President! I could not disagree much more than Mr Eskelinen, because at the moment there is almost 20 billion debt taken over and no change in the government programme has been made or any other measure that would create faith in this Parliament and in the fact that the economy is under control and that there are some sort of ideas about how this whole package will actually be repaired at some point. All the time, we're ahead of ideology. When an hour or two ago we discussed the bicycle business of the scrapping fee, that is just and only that we distribute so - called free bicycles a little there and here. No financial discipline at all, nowhere. There is no compromise on the government programme, there is no compromise on ideology, there is no compromise on anything, even if the ideological waste of money should now be stopped and all ambitious objectives must be put on ice. Reasonable objectives are reasonable objectives, but ambitious targets generally mean that they are pursued when the economy is in a better position. Yes, the fear is that there will be a lot more of these amending budgets next year. The city centre was convinced by the summer's ears, or when it was now, that decisions are clearly taken in the autumn that affect these matters, but those decisions are now, for the time being, still in a bag and the bag is closed. Yes, to be honest, who dares even go to the next government, unless some sort of petrification comes to this distribution of money, because at the latest the next government will have to make some rather radical decisions. Or, of course, you can use Mr Arhinmäki's way of saying that those debts do not need to be paid by any state, but are we the kind of people who take advantage of the world of thought? Hopefully not. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u24	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u25	Mr President! This is about extending the exemption from VAT for certain parts until the end of April 21, i.e. by half a year. The Government proposes that the VAT exemption for goods needed to combat the covid-19 epidemic be extended by six months. The proposal proposes to amend the Act on the temporary amendment of the VAT Act. According to the proposal, the law's entry into force rule would be amended to extend the period of validity of the law and thus the period of validity of the duty exemption for domestic sales of goods used to prevent, test and manage covid-19 infection and intra-Community acquisitions from other Member States by that half a year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u26	Mr President! The government has very clearly stated that the treatment of the corona epidemic will not be subject to will, measures or budgeting. That's what this is all about, isn't it? This has, of course, meant that the State has become more indebted in taking on the attacks. For example, the costs of the interest rate have been reimbursed to municipalities and medical districts. Next year's budget has therefore provided for comprehensive testing and possible vaccination. I think this is responsible action. From an international comparison, we can conclude that Finland has succeeded well, although the price has been high here too. As part of the strategy we have chosen, we have given a temporary exemption to goods used to prevent, test and manage corona infection, as regards domestic sales and intra-Community acquisitions from other Member States. This proposal proposes to extend its deadline until the end of April 21 and is expected to reduce the revenue of the State by around EUR 8 million. President! Tax exemption can be considered to improve the availability of goods and thus enhance the prevention, testing and management of corona infection. That is why this proposal is very well-founded.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u27	Madam President! This government proposal therefore concerns the extension of the tax exemption for goods needed to combat the covid-19 epidemic, and this is a necessary proposal. This applies to personal protective equipment, such as safety glasses, facial visors, protective clothing and gloves, as well as medical equipment such as breathing appliances and supplies such as test kits. The aim is to facilitate the purchase of equipment and supplies necessary to combat the epidemic and to deal with the sick. That is why it is a good thing that we now have to deal with this. After all, in April the Commission presented this first proposal and now proposes that this decision be applied until 30 April next year, and it is therefore natural that the government should also propose that this amendment law be extended until that same date. However, I wonder why the Commission is not going to go any further than this, because it is very likely that these very same items will be needed very far next year, and certainly the situation in the states will not be any easier — nor will the situation of social and health care providers — by the end of April next year. Surely, then, in due course, this will continue once again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u28	Madam President! As we have heard before, this exemption from VAT in the trade in these various items needed to prevent an epidemic is to continue, and certainly this period of time proposed by the government is well founded. I agree, however, with what Mr Räsänen said earlier, that these protective equipment, masks and others will probably be needed much longer, for example. I believe that this proposal and this way of working is an example of the fact that, both in terms of legislation and in terms of its operational activities, societies must be prepared, in crisis situations of this kind, by various means, to facilitate people's daily lives and to give private companies the opportunity to be involved in the solutions to these crises through tax changes. That is what has been done here too, and that is a good thing. I believe that we will have to return to this and once again to discuss this proposal here in Parliament next spring, but we must be prepared to do so when the conditions are so difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u29	Irade fru talman! I det rai lagförslaget föreslås att giltighetstiden ska förlänges gällande skattefriheten för varvar som behövs för att bekämpa covid-19-pandemin. Bakgrunden är att Europeiska kommissionen i april tog ett temporärt beslut om befrielse från importtular och mervärdeskatt av vavar som krävs för att bekämpa effekten av covid-19-utbrottet. Beslutt tillampades ursprungligen på import som ägde rum från sluet av januari till sluet av juli. Senare förlängde kommissionen beslutet till slutet av october i år. Samma månad begärde medlemsstaterna att kommissionen skulle förlänga giltighetstiden för sitt beslut ytterligare, Vilket man också nu gjort. Nu gäller skattefriheten ända till slutet av april nsta år. Därför förreslås det nu att giltighetstiden i vår nationalella lagstiftning också ska förlänges på motsvarande sätt med 6 månader till utgången av april 2021. De föreslagna ändringarna påverkar inte lagens tinlapningsområde. Syftet med propositionen är att åtgärda de neuterlitetsproblem som gäller försäljning i Finland av varvar som behövs på grund av covid-19 och gemenskapsinterna förvärv av sådana varor. Problemmet åtgärdas genom att motsvarande försäljningar och gemenskapsinterna förvärv befrias från Skatt vad gäller den offentliga älso- och sjukgården samt socialvården. Skatt som ingår i anskaffningar som gjorts för dessa försäljningar får dras av. Det är således frågan om zeroskattesats. Detta är mycket viktigt och bra för att vi på ett så effecttivt ätt som möjligt ska kunna haantera coronapandemin.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u30	Madam President! I really do not want to start by saying that what I said, because we all knew in September when this same thing was being discussed, that this will be followed up. I then asked Mr Vanhanen, Minister for Finance, and he replied that the time limit at the time was 31.10. came from the EU, of course. Now we are continuing this for six months, and that is the way it is, and just as the previous speakers have said, perhaps we will be again in the spring to deal with this issue. But I am going to go into this substance myself, so it is a question of certain items, including tests. In view of my background, I am quite careful to use such a speech here, where I would go to assess things from a medical point of view, but yesterday there was a very interesting debate at the A-Studio on television, which showed that in northern Finland, the so-called NordLab region, the five hospital districts of the Oulu University Hospital, a different testing practice is being followed to some extent, i.e. it has been invested in rapid testing, which, among other things, brought this epidemic of the Kuhmo municipality to an end quickly. Jukka Mattila, head of the Hospital District of Lapland, spoke very well about it. Then, for the sake of fairness, the views of the South Hospital Districts HUS and Varsinais-Suomi had also been brought up in the discussion, and the medical experts leading it also explained why more expensive tests are being used here. When I first saw the whole — i.e. we were talking about EUR 1.7 billion, which, as a whole, will support testing and other issues in the health care districts and municipalities next year — I turned to the Minister of Finance in that little informal café debate and said that, although we are now at war with this corona, we must, after all, be financially accurate and efficient and be productive, and this is now a challenging place to ask ourselves what kind of costs we will then best achieve in this important objective, because there are always parallel uses for money, even within health care. That is what I wanted to draw attention to here, because it is a question of tests, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u31	Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u32	Mr President! I am afraid that Mr Räsänen and others who have drawn attention to this timeline may well be right — probably right — but let us return to it in the spring, whether or not there will be a follow-up. In itself, this is a partly zero-sum game within the public sector. On the basis of this proposal, I believe that the State will lose EUR 8 million in tax revenue by the end of April, and it will hopefully be reflected in public sector procurement prices. In particular for these masks, competition and production volumes will have a much greater impact on this price level when costs have fallen as a result of increasing volumes. Mr Lindén raised the issue of tests, which also relate to this. I also saw that debate yesterday, and I will also try to be careful. Although Mr Lindén is a doctor in the field, I am a layman, all in all this is a matter of probabilities. It already creates an anomaly of 100% confidence when the test is two days away and may have been infected in between. It should also be possible to manage certain probabilities by taking advantage — there is no chance of full 100% certainty. And I think that the discussion was very good in which the relationship between these rapid tests and the more expensive tests was assessed. It is clear that, as we well remember, we gave HUS money — whether it was 200 million — in order to secure the testing capacity, but at the same time, of course, a large amount was committed for a year to a specific testing technique.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u33	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Constitutional Committee must give its opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u34	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the regulation of non-compete agreements between the Employment Contracts Act and the Maritime Labour Contracts Act. The employer’s obligation to pay compensation for a non-compete agreement would be extended to all non-compete agreements, where the obligation currently applies only to contracts of more than six months. These proposed laws are intended to enter into force from the beginning of 2022. The aim of the proposal is to reduce non-compete agreements contrary to the conditions laid down by law, in particular by preventing them from being concluded. At the same time, however, the possibility of using non-compete prohibitions would be maintained where they are justified under the conditions laid down by law. The proposal proposes that compensation for a non-compete agreement should be 40% or 60% of the employee's salary, depending on whether a non-compete agreement has been reached for a maximum of six months or more than six months. A non-compete agreement could be concluded for a maximum period of one year, as it is today. As a rule, compensation should be paid during the non-compete period, during the pay periods paid during the employment relationship. For situations where circumstances and the need for a non-compete agreement change during an employment relationship, it is proposed to expressly provide for the employer to have the right to terminate the non-compete agreement and the period of notice to be respected. Otherwise, no substantive changes are proposed to any other regulation on non-compete agreements, such as general conditions. The proposal proposes a transitional period of one year, after which the new provisions would also apply to non-compete agreements concluded before the entry into force of the new regulation. The transitional period would therefore allow employers to prepare for regulatory changes and terminate unnecessary non-compete agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u35	Madam President! The Government's proposal now under discussion to the Parliament to amend Section 5 of Chapter 3 of the Employment Contracts Act and to amend Section 5 of Chapter 4 of the Maritime Contracts Act is particularly good. It has to be said that it matters who makes the decisions. The pro-employee government is now taking a pro-employer policy, which is something to be welcomed with joy. The Left Alliance aims to safeguard the status and livelihood of workers. However, the proposed amendment is in everyone's interest. By facilitating the mobility of workers, the availability of labour will be improved and tax revenues will increase, which means that there is another aspect. We should not have laws that highlight problems of confrontation, and that is why this change is particularly good. ‘The use of non-competitive agreements and of a The quote was directly from the proposed law. I am very pleased that this law has been brought here, and thank you to the Minister for a clear, coherent presentation and for the way in which this matter is now in this Chamber in the debate. We do not need obstacles that undoubtedly also affect how new companies are created in terms of good innovation and others. We need a labour market where people have the right to act on their own ideas. In that sense, these already become more widespread and excessive non-compete agreements are harmful. I remember from the last period that I wrote my name in the draft law on this matter, and I therefore believe that this will enjoy greater confidence in Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u36	Madam President! This proposal for a law before us is indeed very much to be welcomed and is indeed needed. As we heard Mr Myllykoski say earlier in his good, well-balanced speech, these non-compete agreements have become very widespread in recent times, and it tells us that in working life, especially in that business world, development is going in the direction of creating a new one whose knowledge is not hoped to escape from the company too soon. I'm sure that's one part of this phenomenon. It is very good — and I would like to thank the Minister and the Government — that these non-compete agreements are now being given an adequate legal basis. It is very necessary to prevent such a thing as it is today, how it would be characterized, uncontrolled development or the wild west from continuing and going in an uncontrollable direction in this sense. However, attention must be paid to the fact that we have very different sizes of companies and estimates have been made that, especially for the smallest companies, it can be challenging to draw up such contracts, which are somewhat legally demanding. I therefore believe that we should closely monitor whether this is going to be a problem and, if these problems arise, we must ensure that it does not have an adverse effect on business growth and employment, on the labour market. However, as a whole, I think that this is really necessary, and this will clarify the situation and will certainly also make it easier for businesses and employers in this respect. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as it were, these agreements are now being decided retrospectively after this transitional period, it is good that these agreements, which are certainly a mixed number, should then be updated in accordance with the new law. But I am sure that in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we will then assess this basis as to how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u37	Mr President! This is a very important and necessary proposal which the Government and the Minister for Labour bring to Parliament, and I can also agree with the previous speakers — and I also share the hope that it would be important for Parliament, with a broad consensus, to take this proposal through quickly. It is the labour market that is at stake here, not only today but, above all, the labour market of the future. It is precisely if we look at the number of non-compete agreements that have been concluded, which is their share of existing contracts, that it has not yet been large, to an increasing extent, but the number of non-compete agreements that have been entered into in many areas in the new contracts has actually been enormous, i.e. quite normal. There are therefore areas in which almost all contracts of employment are subject to non-compete agreements without the conditions being considered. And this really is about how to make the labour market work better. It may be that some employers feel that partial optimization may be necessary for an entrepreneur to keep, but then the other side of the argument is that once a worker moves forward — which is good for the dynamics of the labour market, for the functioning of the labour market — it becomes unnecessary. This has a clear impact on the functioning of the labour market, on the dynamics, and I believe that this is also a factor affecting employment. I would have liked to ask the Minister for Employment: how have you assessed the long-term impact of this proposal on employment, in the long term, if the impact is that there will not be so many of these in the future, and this will result in these unnecessary breaks in people's careers being reduced? In this way, the urban movement might think that it has positive effects, that it has some employment effects. But this is something I would have liked to hear from the Minister for Labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u38	Madam President! It remained unsaid that we really must be aware of it and the government has been aware that, as Mr Lindtman has pointed out, this is very common. It's not like you need to be an engineer or anything highly trained. This is today's activity in every sector, such as cleaning staff, construction workers, telephone vendors, guards, Post employees and so on, so here is a very wide range of products. On some points it is understandable that a company that invests in education, of course, wants to keep its know-how to itself, but there are certainly other ways of committing itself than the fact that there are still excessive sanctions at this point. Of course, we must also be aware that employees' organisations would have had more wishes, but the proposal is moving in the right direction, and I would say at this point that it is perhaps enough, in this situation, to take the first step. It is important to be quicker in this matter than to expect that, with regard to these atypical employment relationships, the blocks have exploded in the hands, starting with temporary contracts, zero contracts and so on. In that sense, this is a good step to take now. This anticipates and is now timely.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u39	Madam President! Perhaps we should add that even though these non-compete agreements are concluded with very different professional groups and have been concluded so far, the main challenges and perhaps, I would describe, the greatest legal challenges are those of the kind of companies, perhaps the start-up companies, which are still at the stage of creating new ones, perhaps at the time when the new product or service has not yet been able to market sufficiently widely. In such situations, it could then become a real challenge for the company and its future growth. In other words, as we have heard before, it is precisely these companies of the future and many industries, but I believe that this aspect has been adequately taken into account here that there will then be no obstacles that slow down the labour market when it is intended to do the opposite.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u40	And here, Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u41	Mr President! Thank you for these contributions, which supported the move forward with this proposal. Hopefully this will now go smoothly in Parliament. The question was: what is the impact on employment, and yes the impact on employment is precisely because, as Mr Lindtman said, these non-compete agreements, which have now been extended in the new contracts of employment, have started to be carried out in the most diverse types of work, and perhaps it has not always been considered what the basis of the law has been, that it must be actual and that it must be justified, but that it has become this way. Well, these non-compete agreements slow down the spread of innovations, and then they weaken growth and employment too, and in the long term the prevention of these non-compete agreements, that vain ones would be left out, strengthens the fact that innovations are spreading, e.g. growth entrepreneurship is increasing, and thus the productivity of companies is also increasing. In the state of California, for example, these non-compete agreements are completely banned, and yet we are starting to start with the fact that, in certain cases, there is a justification for this, and the law now provides a framework for this, but then there will also be this compensation, and this compensation is now aimed at preventing those unnecessary non-compete agreements, which is, as it were, a little bit of a question for the company in question as to whether this is something that should be done at all. The positive effects of this are quite obvious and they are there in the explanatory statement of the law, but in cases where there is a justification for this, a non-compete agreement can still be concluded. I am sure the Constitutional Committee will then assess this transitional period. It's made there for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u42	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u43	Madam President! This amendment to the Food Markets Act in the referral debate will bring balance and growth and the conditions for its growth throughout the food system. The law is very necessary because the bargaining power of suppliers and buyers is unbalanced and has been so for a long time. The centralized grocery trade is overwhelming in terms of negotiating arrangements. The law is based on the EU Trade Practices Directive, which aims to protect the weaker seller from a stronger buyer. The Government will bring forward this bill so that the rules of the game and the negotiating arrangements of the food system are more transparent in food-related trade. It is very important that the law should be able to better address unfair trading practices in the food system. President! The following three points are presented here: firstly, commercial retaliation in the event of the supplier exercising his contractual or statutory rights; secondly, refusal by the buyer to confirm in writing the terms of the supply contract at the request of the supplier; thirdly, the non-rightful acquisition, use and disclosure of trade secrets in accordance with the Trade Secrets Act is also prohibited; and, with this bill, the activity will also be monitored by the Food Market Ombudsman. In addition, the draft law contains separately prohibited practices which may be derogated from by agreement, such as the refund of unsold products to suppliers without being paid by the buyer for them or for their destruction; the fees paid to suppliers for the storage, presentation, inclusion or placing on the market of the products; the charges imposed on the seller for advertising or marketing produced by the buyer; the charge of the supplier for the personnel who decorates the premises used by the supplier for the sale of the products; and the practice whereby the buyer requires the supplier to bear the costs incurred in the sale of the products as part of the sales promotion. A number of different national legislations were also adopted because they were considered to be important complements to the whole and to be more fit for Finnish conditions. Here are four examples: firstly, the withdrawal of orders for perishable products under the Directive would be extended to all agricultural products and foodstuffs less than 30 days before delivery. Secondly, the payment period for trade in all agricultural products and foodstuffs would, in principle, be no more than 30 days within the scope of the law, whereas under the directive on trade practices it could be 60 days for non-polluting products. Thirdly, it is proposed to simplify the scope of the prohibitions in the Commercial Practices Directive so that the prohibitions apply to all supply contracts for agricultural products and foodstuffs when the buyer has a higher turnover than the seller and the buyer's turnover exceeds EUR 2 million. And fourthly, the regulations would also apply to public authorities when purchasing such products, such as purchases of food by schools or municipalities, as well as to companies engaged in nutritional activities exceeding the turnover of more than EUR 2 million. Mr President! Another key improvement of the Food Markets Act is the powers of the new Food Markets Ombudsman. It is very important that we have our own Food Market Commissioner for Fair Trade in the future. According to the law, the delegate has the right to prohibit the continuation of proceedings and to apply to the market law for the imposition of penalties for infringements. In addition, the provisions in force, the comments and the provisions on public warning remain in force. What, then, ladies and gentlemen, can be achieved in this way? Firstly, it clarifies the rules of trade in the food chain. It creates trust between operators. The food system is also becoming more stable and predictable. Secondly, the competitiveness of primary and industrial production will also be strengthened. The supplier's financial risks are decreasing, the liquidity of farmers and the food industry is improving, the conditions for investment and production decisions are increasing. To sum up: the proposal for a new food market law, which is now being presented, will promote good commercial practices and the healthy functioning of the market, while strengthening the negotiating position of producers and the competitiveness of the entire food industry. Growth and new innovations benefit the entire food system, including consumers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u44	Madam President! When the rules of conduct are as they are, I don't applaud from here, even if I feel like it. It is great that the government is now improving the situation that has been the case, that is, the relationship of its smaller and weaker seller with the buyer. We have very large players in the trade sector, which is why this government proposal to reform the Food Markets Act has been needed and hoped for, and now it is here in Parliament's deliberations. It is very important that we are able to intervene in retaliation and that we have an effective authority capable of making these decisions. Until now, it has been very common for us not to dare to protest or complain that his treatment has been contrary to the agreement. Does this erase everything? Certainly not, but this is precisely the measure that needs to be taken in order to make the position of producers in relation to industry and traders clearer and to safeguard it from the very beginning of the production chain. When Minister Leppä said that one part is the return of these products, we can now get rid of the fact that the seller is going to take the goods to the shelf, then he will pick up, that is, that the parties are not, in a way, in their own areas of responsibility — a different thing, if we agree, then it is all right. This fee, 30 days: a very good thing for this to be done, i.e. it is good to legislate on unfair trading practices when they have not been in operation otherwise. This is a bit like the issue on the labour market, that is, collective agreements have been drawn up to protect its weaker party, and now it is being brought more centrally and even more strictly here on the food side. Thank you for this presentation to the government and for the presentation to Minister Leppä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u45	Madam President! Now I have to say that once this proposal has come to Parliament, it is indeed a good idea, and Minister Leppä deserves personal thanks for this, and the whole government, once this proposal has been brought here and in this form. When I meet a lot of farmers in my work, those who earn a living from primary production, one of the key feedbacks and hopes that I always have is that this trade in Finland would work fairly if we could have this fair trade in Finland as well. In Finland, as we well know, this development has been in line with the fact that, after EU membership, the price received by primary producers has already fallen on the European market in terms of market prices, but then, in terms of trade, competition has only decreased, thereby gaining over-dominant market power vis-à-vis primary producers. This proposal is now correcting this imbalance, bringing about this balance between producers and buyers. As a matter of principle, I am always opposed to the creation of new authorities or, as it were, new levels of government, but at this point I believe that it is very justified with regard to this post of High Commissioner for Food, because now we have a truly one-sided body responsible for this and have sufficient powers to monitor and monitor the proper functioning of this food market. I believe that this proposal, when it comes to it, will make the situation better. As we have seen with this acute corona crisis, the competitiveness of domestic food production, the operating conditions of primary producers, farmers and the viability of their work are absolutely key to maintaining adequate food security, and in that sense this proposal deserves thorough consideration and warm thanks in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u46	Madam President! I thought I'd get up here right to talk every time food law gets better. It's a short history. In fact, good deeds began by Minister Ihalainen when he drew up a law on the dominant market position in which unfair competition would not have been allowed. It was quite challenging to follow up the legislation so that it would not happen because there was no authority and, as we heard from Mrs Myllykoski, for example, that the weaker party would still have suffered from this situation — for example, from the banned shelf fees or from having to pick up unsold products without getting money from them, or from having to change the trade prices in the middle of the contract or cut off such unfair practices — and if this smaller operator had made a complaint, he would have gone on top of the market and probably lost to a big player with legal scholars there to defend them. At the time it was a lottery victory that when we went through the food report at the Sibelius Academy in evasive spaces, the Parliament unanimously decided that we still wanted clarifications and that we wanted a food agent — that was what we wanted then, but then it became a ‘valid’ —and that on2019 we had legislation that we became subject to control by the Food Markets Ombudsman. There was still not quite so clear a code of conduct for him as to what to do, and a lot of things we, as a committee, unanimously wrote in the explanatory statement which sort of things should be better taken into account there. I am very proud of you, Minister Leppä, that we are now in this situation. The Food Market Ombudsman has been working for a year, and now we are able to look at what has happened there, and when we are able to implement it with this UTP directive — that is, with the same problems at European level — we have a mandate to do it even better so that these unfair trading practices are constrained. Well, then, does trade or food processing companies need to fear this? Not necessary if the activity is transparent and honest, genuine. That does not mean that there should not be fierce and brutal competition and so on, but it must be fair and the rules of the game must be respected. That is why it is important that the Food Market Commissioner is now given a code of conduct to ensure that he is, in a sense, a longer hand in this sanctions. There are remarks and public reprimands and then just sanctions and the legislative process. I think it is important that this deterrent effect is sufficient and proportionate to the size of the actor, but not that these sanctions are entirely dependent on all turnover, because then I think that the fear of sanctions would be excessive. That is where the Minister explained well what all the bans are now clearly on the legislative level. I may not go through them again, but I am pleased that, for example, this plagiarism of the product was also raised very strongly here. It goes without saying in all other products that if someone does the product development work, one cannot copy it without permission, but there has never been any legislation on the food side on this — here is one thing I am particularly grateful for. We are dealing with this from a very different point of view in committee, and I am sure there will be duubies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u47	Irade fru talman! Regeringen föreslår att ändra livsmedelsmarknadslagen så att man tar in förbud mot förfaranden som ances strida mot god affärssed i samband med leveransavtal för Jordbruksprodukter och livsmedel när köparen har en större omsättning än säljaren och köparens omsättning överstiger 2 million euros. Livsmedelsmarknadsombudsmannen ska bevaka att förbuden iakttas, och i livsmedelsmarknadslagen tas det in bestemmelser om skydd av confidentialiteten för uppgifterna om den aktör som anmäler överträdelser. Döstöm föreskrivs det om inspektioner, rätt att få uppgifter, förbud och påföljder. Det raus förslaget är mycket viktigt. Irade the Talman! I don't think I'm going to do it. I don't think I'm going to do it. I don't think I'm going to do it. I don't think I'm going to do it. I don't think I'm going to do it. I don't think I'm going to do it. Det finns därför en anledning till varför mat också Kallas för livsmedel. Det inhemska jordbruket är grunden i vår livsmedelsproduktion och det är viktigt att Finland kan upprätthålla en hög grad av självförsörjning. På livsmedelsmarknaden finns få stora kukurrerande kedjor. Koncentrationen på marknaden gör att producenternas priser presidents hårt. Producenternas ställning behöver stärkas så att det finns en vöjlighet för fler att bedriva ett lönsamt jordbruk. Av en vara som säljs i butiken kan det som bonden eller jordbrukaren får i handen bara vara en iondel av varans värde och vad consumenten betalar i butiken. Det är svårt att göra studier om exakt hur stor andel av försäljningsprise i butiken som går till primärproducenterna effectsom aktörerna inte har någon skyldighet att göra prisinformationen tillgänglig, inte ens till forskare. Det är också något man kunde se på eftersom sådan statistik skulle vara viktig. Den ox propositionen ska förbättra odlarnas ställning i livsmedelskedjan. Det är mycket viktigt och ilkommet. Jag tror alla ravill att alla ska få skäligt betalt för det arbete som man gör och att både butiker och producer ska ha en chans att bedriva en lönsam verksamhet och ha en affärsmässig och social trygghet. Det är skäligt. Det au lagförslaget är en del i det. Jag vill därför tacka regeringen för lagförslaget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u48	Mr President! The Government's proposal to amend the Food Markets Act is a very welcome and necessary amendment. The main reforms of the law concern the better position of food producers in order to clarify and clarify the laws. It is very important that legislation takes greater account of producers and their role in the food supply chain. The Food Commissioner will play a very important role in ensuring that the changes made to the law are followed up in the future. The importance of domestic food and, at the same time, the appreciation must be at the heart of the food discussion. Domestic clean food production is a matter for Finland as a whole, and production and legislation improving the position of producers are also key when we try to get food production to export to the world food market.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u49	Madam President! Finally, I would like to ask the Minister: There will probably be a lot of objections and duubies about the fact that even in Europe, when the UTP Directive was implemented, there were such turnover categories, why we have this clear 2 million. Personally, I think that what is clear and precise. According to the report, we had 3,200 businesses or shops buying food, and this would now only target 300 food manufacturers and, of course, stores, which is really concentrated. After all, it was rather strange that the legislation governing our dominant market share only applied to these two domestic countries, and although this one is considerably smaller here, it is the largest buyer of cheap products on a European scale, and it was not the case at the time. What is your opinion on or justification for this EUR 2 million?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u50	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Leppää and other fellow Members of Parliament for this good debate. However, I would like to say this, frankly, as a trade representative and as an opposition politician, to bring just a few personal aspects of this matter. So domestic food and food production are issues of value. Especially this year we have seen how necessary and valuable domestic food production is. If we trusted the Finnish stomach filling with imported food, we would be hungry in many Finnish homes when the crisis struck. In recent years, problems in the food chain have been at the heart of both the domestic and the EU debate, and that is a good thing. The result of this debate is the unfair trade practice directive, the implementation of which we are discussing today. The starting point of the UTP Directive is to eradicate unfair trading practices from the food chain, particularly in the interests of farmers and small producers. However, in the hands of the government, the promotion of a good thing as such, fair trade practices in the food chain, has, in my view, produced an extraordinary result. The directive itself deals with the entire food chain, but the Government's proposal focuses on one thing, assessing Finnish trade. As a merchant entrepreneur in a small local K-food store, I find it difficult to identify the accusations made — this is the opinion of many others — even if I can see that this waving of a stamp axe would contribute to the cause of Finnish agriculture. Trade and traders buy little food directly from farmers. It is therefore very strange that the government's proposal, unlike the directive, does not deal with anything other than trade in terms of assessing the status quo and the need for regulation. If the government's objective were indeed the same as that of the directive, to protect the smaller parties in the food chain, then its proposal should also have dealt with contractual relations between agriculture and the food industry. That is what I think should have been done in the explanatory statement. Madam President! The biggest peculiarity of the proposal before us has already been included in the government programme. Borrowing from the Marin Government Programme: ‘Restricting the daily over-negotiating position of reserve stores through legislative action,other than privateabel products. “ This proposal under discussion has still not brought clarity as to what is meant by this sentence. In the draft law, trade marks, private labels, are thus dealt with in the light of the abuse of business secrets. The Government's proposal gives a misleading picture of trade's own branding based on extensive copying. I say this in this way that Finnish trade, in particular Finnish trade, is not a product copy, contrary to what may have been misunderstood by publicity. Every consumer knows that when you buy your own brand from a Finnish store, for example Pirkkaa, he buys Pirkka. The directive itself does not deal with the marks of commerce at all, but in the Finnish debate they have become the steak of the regulation as a whole. First of all: Finnish food trade operators, unlike international competition, have a small share of their own brands, less than 30 per cent. In European comparison, the proportion is often closer to 40%. Secondly, in the production of its own trade marks, it is, on the contrary, often a trading company which supplies its own new recipes to the manufacturer for the production of the product, not the other way round. So not the other way around. I'd like to stress that with you. Thirdly, trade signs have been the path to profitable growth for a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises in the food sector. Let's ask the Cheese Gate or the Pielispakar. For them, cooperation with a Finnish trader has provided a stable way to grow, both through the production of their own brands and the production of their own brands. And lastly: Fortunately, in recent weeks, the real problem, the copying of high-value brands and brands, has also been addressed in the public domain, rather than copying imaginary products. That is simply unacceptable, absolutely unacceptable. I hope that the government and the Minister of State will also focus on this in the future, because there is a real problem here that undermines the conditions for the success of domestic food businesses. Madam President! All in all, the law amending the Food Markets Act repeats this government's unfortunate general error: even more stringent is the proposal to withdraw EU regulation in domestic hands. The trade practices of the current status assessment, which are very maliciously presented, are outdated and incomplete, or simply have nothing to do with the legislation that has been proposed. The Korona epidemic has put all Finns and the Finnish food chain to the test. It would be time for the government to finally see strong domestic operators in primary production, industry and trade as a condition for Finnish farms not to remain empty at the time of the next crisis. A strong food chain will only remain strong if we guarantee a level playing field for domestic operators to compete with international players. We will certainly not succeed in this by screwing the EU directive more closely at national level. Even on the regulatory side, Finnish agriculture deserves much better than this kind of dividing line between different actors. Finnish trade is the best partner in Finnish agriculture. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u51	Madam President! It was good that Mr Lundén took the floor. There are a few things I want to make right. In other words, this legislation specifically applies to food processors, not just trade. And under no circumstances are we supposed to ban private labels. It is good that there are different options for consumers and that anyone who needs a cheap food basket can also find it in the store. Instead, it is precisely the plagiarism you mentioned that is to be eradicated, directly copying the product development or brand of others.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u54	Madam President! Mr Lundén did raise the right point. I will not go back to what Mr Kalmari said: what is this area of effectiveness and what is it aimed at, but it is also particularly important in the committee to discuss this issue so that it becomes understandable to everyone and the legislation in this respect will be crystal clear. I am concerned about and have been concerned about the examples already in the last parliamentary term, such as, for example, the fictitious oat, which was innovation and was developed. Quite quickly, the operator announced that he received quite strong demands that he should also start producing weeds as a private label. There must be time for that product to develop, to become a brand and to enter the market. A dominant trade can do too quickly that a product cannot be placed on the shelf until something similar is produced under its own brand. I hope that this will lead to the conclusion that there will be patent protection, as it were. I also do not recognize the fact that we have a copy of the recipe, and the product descriptions do not indicate how the product is manufactured. I don't recognize that this is exactly the way it is right now. That would mean that the shops would have their own refineries in such a way that they could pick up a product and put it on. In Satakunta, broilers are grown, and I know that there are a lot of producers there who do the same stuff that the breeder also has on the brand. It enables us to produce and sell it to consumers at a lower price, as long as it does not include what, of course, this cannot be changed, that is, this reverse, negative auction and the rapid pace of constant competition, whether or not we can get there on the shelves of shops and so on. All in all, I still do not stop applauding.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u55	Madam President! Indeed, there has been much praise for this proposal and it is all very well worth it. In this proposal, the scope of this law also covers public procurement, food purchases made by public operators, and there is also, of course, a normal supply of food under the procurement law, and there have been major problems. Among other things, the large food competitions and procurements carried out by Hansel Oy have become a lot of public debate because it has not acted in accordance with the spirit of the previous update of the procurement law, which this Parliament and the Committee on Economic Affairs then stated that smaller operators will also be able to offer their own products in these large acquisitions. I would have asked the Minister: now that this food market surveillance is in the right position, are there still challenges to be addressed in the updating of procurement legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u56	Madam President! One more question. This came up when we met with the Committee on Food Markets in the autumn or last spring. At that time, misleading image marketing and counterfeiting of origin arose. Is this legislation also better able to tackle these issues, or is it a story of its own?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u57	Madam President! That's right. That's exactly what you've been ignoring. It is important to bring it up. Then, this qualification requirement, which, according to the information I have now received, has changed even after the consultation: what is the Minister’s view on why? Legislation in this sector is very complex and multifaceted. There must be a legal understanding here that we cannot now achieve a situation where we can already see that, in a way, skills requirements are not necessarily what they should be and need to hire an army of almost skilled people instead of hiring one skilled person.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u58	Minister Leppä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u59	Madam President! Thank you for your feedback and encouragement and for this debate. Two or three observations. First of all, the problem is Europe-wide. Otherwise, we would not be amending our food market law on the basis of the directive. This issue has been identified elsewhere in Europe. The difference we have, on average, in the rest of Europe on the food market is a very strong concentration of our trade. There is no such concentration in any country of the European Union other than Finland. That is why, as the chairman of the committee has said here, we need these flexibilitys that are better suited to us and to our structure, which this directive makes possible, including with regard to this limit, so that it is sufficiently comprehensive for us. This directive has also been awaited elsewhere than in Finland. That has become very clear here with my colleagues and also with the Commission when I talk to them. Well, then, these questions. As far as the procurement law is concerned, the most important thing is that it is respected and monitored. I believe that these regulations are in a reasonable position, but there is still a great deal to be done in terms of compliance and knowledge. In the case of origin marking, this does not have a direct link, but an indirect link through its fairness. Then with regard to eligibility criteria: why did they change so that there could be more than just a lawyer as a food market representative? Because the food market is highly skilled. It is not just pure legalism that can survive there, but it requires other, commercial skills. That is why there will be the possibility that the Market Commissioner himself may be something else, but of course there must be legal expertise in the office. That's the reason. Then on these markets and private labels, that is, no one is denying private labels, but on that point too I say the same thing: action must be fair. It must be transparent and should not be obtained from anyone there, but must be agreed in good agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u60	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u61	Madam President! At the very beginning, I would like to say that Finland has been and remains a pioneer in the fight against animal diseases, a world leader. There is no need for any of us to remind you of this preventive work and its importance. All we have to do is look around and we will be reminded of the serious consequences that animal - origin disease can have. Finland’s very good disease situation is not a coincidence but a result of long-term work. Our farmers are biosecurity professionals. Our legislation must also be up-to-date to support this work. Mr President! This Government's proposal for an Animal Health Act, like the current legislation, covers the prevention, monitoring, control, spread, prevention and control of animal diseases transmissible between animals and between humans and animals. This law is now more topical than we might have imagined at the beginning of this year. First of all, this law is needed because EU legislation on the fight against animal diseases has previously been fragmented and mainly composed of directives. There have been around 30 directives and Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council and hundreds of regulations adopted pursuant to them. The Animal Health Act has now brought together and harmonised legislation on animal diseases, which is important, and a factor of clarity has been introduced. Animal health legislation does not entail major substantive changes to the principles or means of combating animal diseases, which are already at a very good level. That is precisely why the draft law leaves a great deal of national room for manoeuvre. The use of the margin is very important in order to allow certain disease prevention and control measures that safeguard Finland’s good animal health situation to continue in a similar way. In addition, it is important to have room for manoeuvre in order to allow for more stringent measures than the Union's disease control measures, which we have a lot of, as well as measures to combat diseases other than those listed in the Animal Health Code. In other words, the law will continue to allow the Union to combat animal diseases more rigorously and more widely in Finland. The Criminal Code, the Animal by-products Act and the Hunting Act are presented with technical amendments resulting from the reform. The Animal Health Code and the Control Regulation do not imply any new public authority tasks relevant to the prevention or control of diseases. It is proposed to maintain the existing official system of the Animal Health Act and the division of tasks between the authorities. However, Customs, currently acting as a assisting authority, would be empowered to monitor, alongside animal health authorities, compliance with animal health requirements at EU internal borders. This is particularly important for the control of pet animals and food transported by passengers. It is also proposed to maintain the system of state compensation for animal diseases. The compensation system protects the rights and financial position of primary producers and prevents situations from arising where, in fear of financial loss, the operator would not report a suspicion of disease. Mr President! The proposal has no direct impact on central government finances. It is not estimated that the Animal Health Act or the proposed Animal Health Act will increase or reduce the total number of tasks performed by the authorities, nor will there be any changes in the allocation of powers between the authorities which would have an impact on the state budget. Bringing together large-scale Union legislation on animal health, harmonising and modernising obsolete parts are, in principle, changes that facilitate the work of the authorities. The animal health legislation will also reduce the need for national regulation-level provisions, as detailed disease control rules will be based on more directly applicable Union rules. The proposal therefore does not change the tasks of the authorities and the division of duties, except for the powers that are imposed on Customs. The purpose of the proposal is also to clarify the role of Customs as a supervisor. The legislation is intended to enter into force on 21 April next year at the same time as the animal health legislation is being implemented. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u62	Mr President! I still remember the social shock and the common shock when the first and, as I understand it, the latest case of mad cow disease in Finland was located at the beginning of the 21st century, and the situation was also well contained at that time. I agree with this assessment, which the Minister suggested that Finnish livestock farmers and livestock farmers are genuine biosecurity professionals. Even then, more than a decade or so ago, when I was still working as an agricultural surveyor, I noticed this, and I am sure that the situation has improved even further. This prevention and management of animal diseases is a key part of security of supply and food safety, and it is of great importance in this overall safety in Finland, because our system is very much based on animal food. It is therefore necessary to ensure that, in all situations, our livestock production remains viable and that it is not affected by animal diseases. As far as this animal disease situation is concerned, there have been very few cases of this disease in Finland, serious animal disease epidemics, and they have been well managed. In Finland, there are relatively few medicines used internationally in livestock production, and good animal-specific treatment can also prevent the use of antibiotics, which are also used very little globally in Finland. This is all about the knowledge that Finnish producers and livestock farmers have in these matters, and that knowledge is indeed to be cherished. And I also believe that in the same way as in this corona crisis, the covid epidemic, which is a disease spreading from one person to another, in this animal disease issue in Finland, this sparse population and reasonably small farm size have prevented the spread of these epidemics. This too should be mentioned here and remember that Finland is a good area for food production and, above all, for animal husbandry because of our few settlements and our cool climate conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u63	Mr President! This legislation is also a transposition of EU legislation, as is the case with the previous one, but in this case, too, we have exceptionally good legislation in Finland. We want to safeguard product safety in all situations, and I myself would like to join in the memoirs that when we joined the EU, in fact, our animal health situation was in such a balance-of-language position. It was great that such an Association for the Prevention of Animal Diseases was set up and that the whole chain committed itself to doing this, even though it costs all the actors. And I can honestly say that as a result of this we have the safest products in Europe and the world. We do not need to be nervous about the transition of the norovirus or any dangerous infectious animal disease to humans. We have clear prevention methods and policies, even if something is found, and yet compensation practices, so that these findings are dared to be announced even if there are financial consequences for operators. This legislation also highlights: Customs' methods of dealing with pet animals, and I think that is very important because it may have had our weak link. Although these operators understand the importance of this product safety and good animal health situation, it may not always have been seen on the pet side when it comes to saving a poor dog from Romania. I think it is important that this should now be taken more into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u64	Mr President! The Greens welcome the fact that this technical proposal is being made for the implementation of EU legislation on animal diseases. This is important in order to maintain the better animal health situation in Finland than in other parts of Europe. Every animal has the right to a healthy and good life of the species. This government proposal will therefore improve the prevention and control of animal diseases and will also improve animal welfare. At the same time, the proposal also promotes human health, as it provides for the control of diseases communicable to humans. According to the recently published International Nature Panel Report, all known pandemics and most of the new diseases come from animal and human encounters. And corona pandemic has shown in a harsh way that the spread of diseases from animals to humans is a serious global risk from which it is difficult for any country to fully protect itself. Although the current animal disease situation in Finland is good, animal diseases can spread to us not only through wild and farmed animals but also through animal feed, game cells or transport vehicles, for example. Animal production on an industrial scale is known to be a disease incubator. And climate change can also exacerbate the animal health situation by spreading new diseases as a result of warming towards the north. Mr President! In this context, we still have a number of shortcomings in animal rights and welfare in Finland that need to be addressed. In fact, a number of ways have been included in the Government Programme. The absolute value of the animals must be recognised in legislation and allow for the typical behaviour of the animals. The herd cages and asparagus must be abandoned, the cattle must be allowed 24-hour outdoors and during the summer grazing, the farming of farm animals in cages should be prohibited during a transitional period, the animals must be guaranteed adequate pain relief for painful measures, the breeding of pets into breeds suffering from breeding diseases and pains, the abandonment of fur farming and the support of fur farmers in moving towards other livelihoods. Mr President! This government proposal is a small step on the road to improving animal welfare. The reform of the Animal Protection Act has been in preparation for a long time. During the last term of the government, it fell along with the reform of the social welfare and regional government. Updating the Animal Welfare Act is coming to Parliament during this Government term. In this context, we have a responsibility to significantly improve animal welfare.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u65	Mr President! Maybe more than a few questions at this point. It is known that we are a salmonella-free country in the sense that we can put an egg on top of a pot so that it is not fully cooked but a yolk can flow into it wonderfully, and it can be eaten safely, which is by no means possible in all parts of the world. In other words, we are in an excellent position with regard to animal diseases. I remember when, a few weeks ago, Minister Leppä took the view that the work of the Food Authority’s authorities did not really satisfy the Minister’s mind, so how is it with regard to these imported foodstuffs? Is this even better to get to grips with it? Is it possible that with that additional levy or clarification on Customs we would certainly not be able to produce food for the food industry with salmonella, and that it would be effective so that the authorities would immediately communicate any suspicions of animal disease, and that this information would quickly flow here too, both to the public and then to the organisations of industry and commerce? We are aware of the epidemic in Danish fur farms, and I ask the Minister whether this legislation will continue to allow us, if we have a similar situation, then we will have no problem dealing with it — that is to say, in the case of a fur farm, for example, we will be able to make a decision to eradicate the carriers — and so that the equipment still exists, whether it is foot-and-mouth disease or whatever, and that it has been ensured and that we can act effectively in the event of a crisis? I consider this to be a good measure, which will, I hope, sharpen and, in particular, move in the right direction. As far as intensive production is concerned, as it has been pointed out above, I would like to emphasise, however, that we are not discussing it in the sense that, if there are many farm animals, it would mean that there is intensive production, but that there can be a lot of healthy animals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u66	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski has just brought a very good example of how important clean and safe food is to us. However, what really worries us here is this policy of ours, because our policy is driving the farms bigger and bigger and they are ending them — a year and a half ago it was reported that one and a half dairy farms are stopping here every day. And that is the situation, and I would just like to wake the crowd up to understand that we really need to understand what policy we are doing here, and that we can still eat the pot that Myllykoski prefers to eat with an egg that runs into it on top of the pot. It is important to ensure that we can continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u67	Mr President! We are trying to do everything in our power to ensure that all farmers have a better and safer tomorrow. This government, for example, did a great job — including the Prime Minister — in making our production aid available to us in Europe so that we can grow here in the north too. I am sure you will also support this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u68	Mr President! We have to agree with Mr Laakso in the sense that there is a point where we have to understand that if we want to ensure security of supply as well and if we have all the eggs in one basket and it happens to fall and then we... Its representative, Elo, I buy that if we have too large farms in a comprehensive way and then there is an animal disease, it really is a big and huge damage, and in that sense we should be brave enough to see where the limit is that we are facing security of supply. If we only have extremely large ones, it means that there is also extremely large damage, and we are already talking about food security for domestic food.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u70	Mr President! It is quite true, as many Members have said, that this is also a question of security of supply. That's what it is to the greatest extent. This also contributes to it and, above all, highlights the fact that the Finnish way of working — fairly large units, distributed production, highly skilled farmers, good control, up-to-date legislation and that everything, the whole food chain, the whole system, works in the same direction — has guaranteed that we can actually eat eggs raw and we can drink water from the tap and that we are not at risk here for animal disease or other diseases, it is the lowest risk in the world. So this is a big deal. And when the question was asked — for example, this mink garden issue in Denmark — do we have the means to do so? Yes, it is on the basis of this legislation on animal diseases that we have the tools of the authority to intervene and oblige producers and investigate, to clarify the matter and then finally to reorganise. All this is possible and must continue to be so. Well, are there any effects, controls on imported food? Yes, there is, in part and in particular, the risk with which we can bring diseases which we do not want to see here. And this is also the responsibility of each of our passengers that we do not bring anything in secret: we do not bring food and we do not bring any animals here without official roads. It's obvious. Well then there was also an estimate that politics is such that it has brought our farmers into distress. Yes, the main reason is the market. There was talk of food market legislation and its necessity. With us all the time, when we look at any statistics, any research, other parts of the food chain have taken on an ever greater share of that value added.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u71	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u72	Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! The third law, which is more or less related to the previous two laws and complements this large package which we are dealing with today, namely the Government's proposal for a feed law and the amendment of Article 6 of the Grey Economic Clearing House Act and Article 1 of the Law on the Enforcement of the Fine. In short, this is a new feed law which repeals the existing feed law. In addition, two laws, namely the Law on the Grey Economic Clearing and the Law on the Enforcement of the Fine, are subject to technical amendments resulting from the reform. The law will be aligned with EU legislation and new control tools will respond to the changed environment in the feed sector. That was also referred to in the recent debate. There are no major substantive changes to the law. President! I will now bring up the most important amendments from the whole of the law. After all, the feed law has been amended several times, but it is now being structured into a more complete whole and updated with EU legislation on feedingstuffs. Regulatory formulations will be aligned with other laws of the food chain. In addition to ensuring the quality of feed, the objective of the Act is set to be recorded in order to promote the conditions under which feed business operators operate. Better information for public authorities is proposed while at the same time developing cooperation between different authorities. For example, the supervisory authority could, on its own initiative, disclose information to another authority for the purpose of carrying out its tasks. An expert role for the Food Agency in the criminal process would be developed. The law would provide for new control tools, such as the carrying out of an inspection mainly at accommodation facilities, a sample taken by the Authority without identification by means of means of distance communication and the closure of an Internet site or part thereof, where the sale of non-compliant feed cannot be prevented by other means. In other words, new means and new operating models will be taken into account. As part of the implementation programme for the strategy against the shadow economy and financial crime, a provision on the reliability of the operator would be added to the feed law. The law would provide for the right of supervisory authorities to be informed about the performance of the operator’s public-law obligations, such as taxes and other statutory payments. The new coercive measures would introduce the suspension or withdrawal of the registration or authorisation of a feed business operator if the operator is no longer considered reliable and the reason why the operator is not considered reliable is of a material and serious nature and the operator has not corrected the non-compliance despite orders from the authorities. A new penalty fee for feed controls would be added to the law, which would be aimed, on the one hand, at preventing unlawful behaviour and, on the other hand, at preventing its continuation quickly and effectively. Mr President! The main effect of the feed law is that the structure of the legislation improves its usability. New tools for monitoring, the right to information and penalties for public authorities, improve the effectiveness of controls, promote feed safety and improve the operating conditions for the entire feed sector. It is proposed that the tasks of the authorities and the division of tasks would not change, except for the new powers mentioned above. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u73	Mr President! Indeed, today we are pleased to deal with a number of key administrative proposals from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, one of which is the technical proposal of the feed law itself. However, I would like to raise this point to the debate on the importance of this feed production for the security of supply in Finland. Minister Leppä has raised this non-Soy Finland objective earlier, and I believe that it is an absolutely central part of the future of Finnish livestock production, both in terms of climate policy and security of supply. There are many countries where livestock production is entirely dependent on imports from South America, for example, which we know are very, very harmful to rainforests. There is a great deal of untouched nature being destroyed from the point of view of soya production, and this is also a global challenge, but Finland is really progressive in it. I would like to hear from Minister Lepä how we could move on with this soy-free Finland challenge.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u74	Mr President! Although that representative Honkonen's latest question slipped by a little
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u77	Mr President! A few questions. Firstly, there is of course more of a technical nature to this package, but, as the Minister also pointed out, this so-called ban on registration, which can then be targeted from there, is excellent. Untrustworthy factors can be removed from the market if there are reasons for it and there is no need to process it longer. I would have asked: in this legislation was it, in a way, matters related to this proof of reliability and the testing of its feed so that the authority could make itself a customer and examine the sample of its feed and then state that this went under control? So, in a way, as the police have these fake purchasing rights, is there a similar element in this now that can monitor the quality of the feed? Or am I seriously out of line? In any case, this is good and will contribute to the possible withdrawal of bad operators from the market, and that is how our own food production will be safer for these feeds. It is particularly important that we certainly do not have salmonella in this country either and pollute our clean food chain.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u78	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you again for taking good note of this section. First of all, Mrs Myllykoski: we have the opportunity to do this with this reformed law and with the proposal, a sample taken by the authorities without being identified is being discussed, so the answer to your question is yes. Then we talked about the last one and asked how the Food Agency would communicate if anything was found. This is precisely what has now been sharpened to the Food Authority and the authorities to always communicate if anything is found. It creates more reliability and now new operating models have been introduced. Well, then, this soyless Finland, improving protein self-sufficiency: There is a need for a wide range of measures. We've been talking about this for far too long. This issue has been somewhat stagnated — it has been stagnant in Finland, it has been stagnant throughout Europe — and we need to find more effective ways to do this. It starts with plant breeding, new technology, cultivation incentives and knowledge and skills, and so on. There are very many things that we must be able to do, including the fact that we have the courage to grow protein crops. And yes to these feeds that are brought to us, there are always risks, and because of this section, the large section, we are getting more control and into domestic hands, I think it is excellent. On the beef side, it is practically completely free from import proteins, and it is becoming increasingly clear that the same thing can be achieved with regard to monogastrics, but we still have to do this, and that is why, for example, last spring, those incentives were strengthened with a view to the cultivation of protein crops. This is the kind of thing we need. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u79	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u80	Mr. Speaker! This proposal therefore proposes to amend the Act on the Housing Information System, the Housing Share Company Act and the Act on the Implementation of the Housing Information System. The housing company established prior to the entry into force of the Housing Information System Act must transfer the maintenance of the stock list to the Land Survey. The proposal proposes an extension of the above-mentioned deadline by one year, ending now at the end of 2023. It is proposed to clarify the transitional provisions of the Act implementing the legislation on the housing information system applicable to mutual real estate companies established prior to the entry into force of the Housing Information System Act. In addition, the Housing Company Act proposes to clarify the extent to which the Articles of Association of the Mutual Real Estate Company of the Housing Information System may derogate from the Housing Share Company Act. The proposed laws are intended to enter into force as soon as possible so that everyone is also aware that that period will be extended by one year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u81	Mr President! Indeed, this government proposal does not in itself interfere with this content of the law. Indeed, this electronic housing register was one of the important reforms of the Sipilä Government, which aimed to speed up our housing market and its operation, the sale of housing, and it has indeed become necessary. I recall that even when we were discussing this, it was assumed that this deadline would come too soon by the end of next year, and now it is going on for the proper reasons. Indeed, this electronic apartment information system is important. Anyone who has ever made a dwelling-share deal has bought a dwelling, knows that it is not very practical to play with a stock book, and those paper stock books may be lost and then new ones have to be made in time, when the banks actually demand them at the time of the mortgage. This proposal also has to do with the fact that the financial sector has also been very keen on this reform, since this will facilitate the work of the Bank. And when banks have had a strong desire and desire to develop a loan processing process, a financial processing process in electronic form, this electronic share book is one part of it. Although there are many criticisms of the banking sector that it no longer serves the public, as a young citizen, I do think it is good, the less often the bank needs to deal with itself, and this, of course, rarely, when the house is traded, will make the business situation easier for itself. Of course, it must always be borne in mind that, when it comes to these banking issues, older citizens often find themselves in difficulties when, in itself, basic services essential to society, i.e. banking services, are no longer available except in electronic form. This too should be given more attention in this House, in Parliament. But in itself this proposal itself is very necessary, and this reform will be brought to the end in a controlled way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u82	Mr President! That is the expertise of older people on the electronic network that I would intervene in. I remember that, when this was taken through our committee, if not now, at least this is what the text of the report wanted to take into account and a little follow-up was required. Is it true that, in a way, this extra time also gives us the opportunity to make this electrification and then take these pawnbooks to the electronic format and also give practical guidance and this way, or how has this matter been taken into account?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u83	Mr President! This is also the significance that Mr Kalmari, the chairman of the committee, raised. This now gives a little more time for everyone to get involved. But otherwise this electronic system in the housing company system is extremely good. Mr Honkonen well described why it is important. It is also a matter of enormous economic importance, that they are up-to-date and everyone is aware of it. This thing has big, big meanings. And now this gives us a little more time to turn those papers into electronics.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u84	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u85	Mr. Speaker! This proposal would now amend 46 laws governing the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to make the necessary amendments to their appeal provisions as required by the Law on Administrative Matters, which entered into force on 1 January 1920. In this context, the right to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court, which is currently provided for in certain appeals provisions, would also be waived without authorisation. Complaints will always require permission to appeal. The Collta Act, the Act on the Management of Income Risks and the Act on the Elimination of Separate Water Wastes as Real Estate would be amended in the same context to reflect the changes made to the Administrative Law on the Universal Declaration and the Public Alert. These laws are also intended to enter into force as soon as possible, as soon as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u86	Mr President! I thank the Minister for his presentation and would just like to ask what effect this will have on the legal protection of the farmer. In a way, there is a need to keep it under control, but it would seem to be balanced in all sectors of government and not, for example, that a certain group of people is put in a weaker position than others. But we will also go over this in the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u87	Mr President! Indeed, this has to do with the fact that, from the beginning of this year, a new law has entered into force, that is to say, the law on judicial proceedings has changed and this is the basis for doing so. That legal security raised by Mr Kalmar is of the utmost importance. We also need to take good care of the protection of property, and we also need some amendments to the law, but this change in the law that is now being made will certainly not weaken these. According to this estimate, they will remain good, and then other laws will also improve these goals. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u88	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 12/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u89	Mr President! In this proposal, the Government is providing procurement support for the purchase of gas-fired trucks for the years 2020 to 2022. Procurement aid would be granted to a natural or legal person who acquires or rents a new gas-powered lorry. The proposal was largely welcomed by experts and trade unions in the field. The aid is considered to reduce the purchase price of gas-powered trucks, although not at the same level as diesel-powered trucks. Industrial solutions for the propulsion of transport are undergoing a major change when the majority of car manufacturers are moving towards electronic transport, especially for passenger cars. On the other hand, battery technology and electronic transport in heavy traffic are not yet possible and alternative power needs to be promoted. In particular, gas, renewable diesel and possibly hydrogen will be future solutions. In this respect, this government proposal encourages the use of gas-powered lorries and is otherwise justified. Finland also has huge potential for its own production to exploit, among other things, agricultural waste as a new fuel. Mr President! The positive environmental impact of the proposal is likely to remain rather moderate due to the small amount of aid. Perhaps the main effect of the proposal is rather to show and encourage in the right direction. I welcome the fact that tractors have also been made possible for this type of aid. On the other hand, it is precisely because of this small amount of aid that I think it is understandable that the aid is quite precisely limited in this proposal and in this model. As we stated in the report of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, the Committee also considers it appropriate, given the amount of money available, to limit aid to lorries at this stage. It is necessary to assess the possible forms of support for other vehicles separately. Mr President! I believe that it is essential that the effectiveness and adequacy of the aid be actively examined and evaluated, and that the possibility of extending not only the size of the aid package but also the range of vehicles that apply to it, for example, to tractors and other agricultural machinery is maintained in the future. However, the proposal is a step in the right direction and an important support for the introduction of new driving forces for heavy transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u90	Mr President! Indeed, one part of the broad package of measures aimed at reducing climate emissions from transport is now being discussed, and this proposal is a fine and valuable one that seeks to replace those imported fuels. It is always remembered that in Finland fuels, petrol and diesel are mainly processed from crude oil imported from that eastern neighbour, i.e. every time domestic fuel is injected into a tank in one way or another, then our trade balance will be strengthened and replaced by foreign fuels. Indeed, as we can see from this proposal, this support is still reasonably limited. When you think about getting a new truck, though, it is an investment in up to hundreds of thousands, there is talk of really big investments. But what is worth noting here is that now that such a small incentive, as if an electric shock, is being given in the direction of gas, it will have an impact in the long term, because nevertheless the lifespan and life cycle of one heavy-duty vehicle is long. However, it is long and, in that sense, the effects of this proposal on a large scale are likely to be visible only with a delay, but it is important because we need to create that demand for this biogas and biogas distribution, too, and I believe that this will lead to it. The report by the Committee on Transport and Communications has raised important points in this regard. There's been some very careful work done there. In future, I think we should take account of this, which Mr Könttä pointed out in his good speech, that tractors should also be taken into account here, for a number of reasons: firstly, of course, there are these climate criteria, but this biogas is, after all, a very cheap fuel, and even if it were to be used even more in connection with the production of biogas for farms, then it would also be used for it. The proposal is very much to be welcomed and it is also in the right direction in this area of heavy-duty transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u91	Mr President! As the brothers testified, this legislation is a very good one and a step in the right direction, more so when heavy equipment does not really have much of a choice to reduce emissions. This is also an important small step in the rise in biogas that we are going to take with this government, but it also calls for other decisions which have already been agreed in the government negotiations, and I am pleased to hear that they have been raised by several ministers, both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry and certainly others. In other words, we will be waiting for changes in the distribution obligation, in which biogas could be part of the fulfilment of the distribution obligation. We will have legislative proposals to support investments on farms and nutrient recycling, which would then contribute to this profitability of production itself. It can be controlled by the euro. We will see legislative proposals where European money will be used to create a distribution network. I think that if the combined use of biogas and biogas for all these activities does not move forward during this government term, they will never go away. The will mode is so strong now. And even when the government counselors said that this biogas could also be used by tractors, I would like this small step to be taken. Valtra does make biogas tractors but currently sells them all abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u92	Mr President! Indeed, there is not necessarily so much of the idea that these emissions are being dropped at the moment, but this is a good head start that, possibly in the future, biogas distribution and this sort of thing will be improved. And while we are talking about a small amount of EUR 1 million in a way, in reality, the sale of lorries in this size category is only 3000 per year, and yet, when the purchase price of a gas truck is about EUR 40000 higher than the normal car and we support it from EUR 5000 to EUR 12,000, I do not think that it is necessarily the case that we are running out of this money. That is why it was already my proposal in committee that this weight limit should be reduced to at least 12,000 kg, so that we could have even, as we call it, a small number of lighter dividers, which are the ones that are still the most buzzing on the streets in the city centre. The idea was, of course, the tractor business, but of course the situation is that I did not see the point of proposing it at this point. I saw it mainly populist, because the problem is that the tractors are not quite in that way yet. But it would be an absolute thing at some point to get this use of gas tractors to the level of experimenting and, of course, possibly even there on farms to produce the biogas that those tractors use. But that's all there is to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u93	Mr President! The objective of the transport sector is to reduce emissions in the sector by half compared to the 2005 level by 2030. To achieve this goal requires a wide range of means and the use of new and fossil fuel substitute power in heavy transport with a key emission reduction potential. In heavy traffic, the use of alternative propulsion forces has so far been relatively limited and the purchase price of gas-powered trucks is high compared to diesel-powered equipment. For this reason, the Committee welcomes in its report the fact that, for the first time, procurement aid is also targeted at gas-powered lorries for the years 2020 to 2022. The committee considers the proposal to be a good start and also a signal to the industry about the need to promote low-carbon heavy goods transport. This government proposal was largely welcomed in the expert consultation, but criticism was expressed, among other things, about the relatively poor environmental impact of the aid. In addition, the consultations also suggested extending the aid to electric trucks, vans and tractors, which has already been mentioned here in the debate. The committee also considers it appropriate, given the amount of money available, that aid is limited at this stage only to lorries, and that it is necessary to assess the possible forms of aid for those other vehicles separately. Procurement aid is part of this implementation of the national biogas strategy and one of its aims is to support the promotion of the use of biogas. The Committee stresses that the introduction of gas-powered lorries on the market is also conducive to the development of biogas distribution infrastructure. The availability of distribution infrastructure and alternative uses must continue to be significantly developed in order to make it possible for heavy transport to make maximum use of less emission-intensive equipment. Mr President! Unfortunately, since the chairman of the committee was unable to attend this sitting, as vice-president, the committee considers it important that the allocation of procurement aid and its impact be closely monitored in the future in order to assess the effectiveness of the support programme. That committee's report contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u94	Mr President! Here, the vice-chairman of the committee went through the motion with great merit, and I am certainly not going to repeat these remarks. I would just like to say on the subject that I think it is very important and very justified that support measures of this kind are being taken on the heavy goods transport side in order to ensure that these new driving forces are made available on heavy goods transport. I come from the province, from Satakunta, where it is this gas economy, and the biogas economy in particular, that is on the rise, and we have had a great deal of discussion about the measures that can be taken by the government to ensure that this demand for biogas starts to grow more strongly. And it is true that on the side of heavy traffic, that potential for use is very high. That is why I think it is important to be able to deal with such proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u95	Mr President! Of course, this proposal to increase the use of biogas is a beautiful gesture, but as a step towards reducing climate or CO2 emissions, it is very minor and small. I would have given the government more ambition and also the committee more ambition to set the targets higher. Why not immediately create this proposal and budget for electric lorries, electric tractors, distribution vans, electric machinery? Indeed, genuine emission reductions could be made available there, rather than tinkering around with such a gas conversion, which, by the way, will not be very long-lived as technology. However, in general terms, it is better to do this than not do it, so I can support this proposal in that respect. However, I hope that in the future the government will also make more significant efforts to electrify heavy goods transport, machinery and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u96	Mr President! This proposal can be supported as part of the mainstreaming of biogas, could you say, in Finland, and this has been very much awaited. I remember last season when the Christian Democrats tabled more proposals and measures to promote the use of biogas and felt that there was always a problem, the so-called egg chicken problem, that there are no refuelling points when there are no vehicles and there are no vehicles when there are no refuelling points. The aim of this proposal is to enable this acquisition aid, particularly now on the heavy goods transport side, to speed up the distribution and deployment of gas-powered vehicles. However, colleagues have already said here that these machinery and tractors, for example, would have been an important addition to their own, and there seems to be an objection in the committee's report to the fact that it would also be hoped that 12,000 kg of lorries of a small size would be covered by this purchase subsidy. I am sure that it is all very well in itself, and if I have understood correctly what the members of the committee have said, then this is obviously the money that limits it; it would probably not be an obstacle for you to think that these extensions are also extremely important. But in that hearing in the Committee on Finance, I merely pointed out the fact that we are still stuck in the last period, specifically that it is impossible for us on farms to sell this gas outside its farm. In the case of agricultural investment subsidies, we still have a freak in which this investment aid binds it to the gas it is used on the farm, which means that it cannot be sold there outside the farm. This is just as absurd a criterion as if, for example, aid for the construction of a barn would restrict the sale of milk outside its farm, i.e. all milk should be drunk on a farm there, once that aid has been received. That is what I asked the ministry whether this freak is still in force there, and I am afraid this is the case, and now I would like to say to my colleagues, particularly on the centre side, when you now have the portfolio of both the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, that you should now try to get these two ministries together to discuss how to speed up this issue, it is such a strange freak and flowering party there in the criteria for investment aid. I do not know whether it will then have some EU potato behind it, but if this were to be changed, it would certainly be possible to boost investment on farms. I would like to see further progress in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u97	Mr President! It is good that this government proposal has, as a rule, been supported in this debate. It is a good opening for us to use the biogas and gas programme as well. And it is worth noting that this is no tinkering at this point. This is the first time that procurement aid is also targeted at gas-powered lorries, between 2020 and 2022, and because the emissions targets in the transport sector are very challenging and hard, it is important that new starting-points are also available for heavy traffic. In heavy traffic, the use of alternative power has so far been limited, and the purchase price of gas-powered trucks is also high compared to, for example, diesel-powered equipment. That is why, in my opinion, this is a good start for reducing emissions from heavy transport. And I personally hope that in the future this can also be extended to tractors and other machinery. This procurement support is part of the implementation of the national biogas strategy. I personally hope that more attention will also be paid to this distribution network, so that it is available, and that biogas production can also be supported on a smaller scale, on farms and elsewhere, so that it can also work through it. And, as the committee stresses in its own report, the introduction of gas-powered lorries on the market is also conducive to the development of biogas distribution infrastructure. That is also why this is an important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u98	Mr President! That's what Mr. Essayah was just asking and saying: In my view, this aid for biogas investments in farms has a different background. It does indeed have the EU connection from there through the rural programme, but it obviously also had the idea from the outset that farms should invest specifically in these biogas plants, which then produce energy rather than the transport fuel. That is my view of the matter. I may be on the wrong track, but this is the connection. However, it does not eliminate the possibility that a single farm or a multi-farm association can already set up a joint venture which is entitled to this ECU 30 per cent subsidy. In other words, in a way, it is not excluded today from agricultural companies to invest in this biogas, including in transport biogas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u99	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 13/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The chairman of the committee is gone, but will the vice-president present? — Representative Torniainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u100	Mr President! In its report, the committee welcomes the proposal to promote alternative uses, while at the same time supporting the objectives of economic recovery and increased sales of new cars. At the same time, the proposal can contribute to the renewal of the very old European fleet of cars, which also has a positive impact on both environmental objectives and transport safety. A wide range of measures must be needed to achieve transport emissions targets, and the scrapping premium is a welcome measure in this range of instruments. The scrapping premium may be granted for the purchase of a new low-emission passenger car, an electric bicycle, a seasonal public transport ticket or a combined service with a public transport right. In principle, the Committee welcomes the fact that the scrapping premium does not only encourage more environmentally friendly private cars, but also includes public transport and cycling as new alternatives. The expert consultation has focused on the cost-effectiveness of the proposed measures. The committee notes that the direct positive environmental impact is estimated to be relatively low in the proposal. However, the committee believes that in this transition period, the lack of cost-effectiveness for more environmentally friendly mobility can be considered acceptable. Various wishes have been expressed in expert hearings for the possibility of the scrapping premium also for the purchase of various other vehicles, such as second-hand cars or traditional bicycles. Similarly, some of the consultations have considered the emission limit values for the car to be purchased as proposed in the proposal to be too high. However, on the basis of the report it has received, the committee considers that the limits and guidelines set out in the proposal are, in principle, appropriate. Support for the procurement of other vehicles is possible and needs to be assessed separately. At this stage, the committee believes that restricting the scrapping premium to second-hand cars is the best way to promote the objectives of renewal of the car fleet and reductions in emissions. The committee has also considered the limitation of the fee for the purchase of electric bicycles, either by setting a maximum percentage of the purchase price for the amount to be paid or by limiting the amount of the maximum premium to be paid. The committee considers it clear that the system will, in addition to its positive effects, also allow some abuse of it. It is possible to sell an electric bicycle after the acquisition, which is not appropriate to the objectives of the aid. However, according to a report by the rapporteur ministry, it is impossible to assess the extent of possible abuse at this stage. The committee has come to an overall conclusion on the solution proposed in the government proposal for electric bicycles. The model presented is clear and simple, and every electric bicycle that comes into use on the market contributes to the development of cycling and the achievement of emission targets. The payment of the scrapping premium may also benefit domestic wheel manufacturers. However, the committee attaches great importance to monitoring the impact of the government proposal very closely in the future in order to assess the overall impact of the scrapping premium scheme. The potential impact and impact of aid on the prices of products on the misuse of the system must also be monitored. According to the proposal, the recipient of the scrapping premium must have been registered as the owner of the car 12 months before the car was scrapped. The committee has amended the regulation in such a way that the car owner who is to be scrapped may also be entitled to the scrapping premium. Mr President! The committee's report contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u101	Mr President! Finland is a large and sparsely populated country. For many of us, our own car is the most important means of transport. However, from time to time, the debate on motoring gives rise to enormous proportions, and motorists are blamed for no reason. We need all kinds of forms of mobility, and I myself belong to the majority of Finns who travel by car, walking, cycling and train. Thus, many people’s daily lives consist of daily trips when children are taken to care or school, continue to work and shop themselves, pick up children from care and go to hobbies in the evening. Daily trips of several miles or even tens of miles are carried out by our own car, and none of us should blame it. For many of us, our own car is a lifeline. On average, cars that are about 12 years old are driven in Finland. The fixed-term scrapping premium now presented by the government allows private individuals a scrapping premium to replace an old car to be scrapped with a new car. The scrapping premium has been used in Finland in a well-researched way as a measure for the renewal of the car fleet in the past. The performance is also a hand extension to a car dealership suffering from corona. The starting point for the scrapping premium is in order: it encourages and does not discipline. But not everyone can afford a new car. The weakness of the performance may be that the scrapping premium cannot be used on used cars of a few years old. They would be considerably safer and would consume less than cars over 10 years old. At the same time, the sale of second-hand cars would also increase speed. This is an unfortunate flaw in the performance. Another flaw in the proposal is the absence of a maximum percentage ceiling for electric bicycles. This would have been an effective means of preventing abuse of the system and, through ownership, would have supported the purchase of electric bicycles for own use and possibly not for its immediate sale, as it is now possible to do. I think it is very important, as the committee proposes in its report and as the vice-president of the committee pointed out in his introduction, that the impact of the proposal will be monitored very carefully to assess the overall impact of the scrapping premium system, including the possible impact of aid on the prices of products and the misuse of the system. Mr President! Whether you drive a newer or older car, the government’s record - sized investments in road maintenance and road improvement will be needed. It's finally the right way to go now that you're being set up and you're getting a new fleet of cars. However, the government’s proposal to introduce the scrapping premium may mainly be welcomed. The overall impact of the scrapping premium will contribute to speeding up the transition to a newer and safer fleet of cars and will also provide financial support to stimulate the sale of cars suffering from the corona period. Despite their shortcomings, the government's proposal can be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u102	Mr President! Indeed, I believe that the continuation and promotion of this scrapping premium legislation is a wise policy for the government. Already the Sipilä government introduced the scrapping premium, and that was where the economy was going up, thanks to the excellent policy of the Sipilä Government, an important measure to speed up the car trade. Now, too, it is a challenging situation in the economy, so in the sense that new cars are being acquired and bad old cars are being scrapped, it is really an important measure for the government, and I believe that it will have an economic, economic growth, a stimulating effect for itself. Of course, what Members have raised here can and must be discussed as to what are the effects of the various forms of social support and decisions that contribute to reducing emissions from transport and other emission reductions, the distribution of income and their impact on the fairness of the various populations. I personally assume that this is an important proposal in many ways, but it is clear, as colleagues have said here, that people on low incomes do not have the opportunity to buy a new car. However, this will enable those low-emission cars to be transported, and then, when they are used in time, they will circulate and also make it possible for citizens with lower incomes to obtain them. But this aspect is extremely important and should not be forgotten, because there is always a risk that climate policy measures will increase income disparities between citizens. We must therefore focus, as has been said in previous points in this plenary session, on measures that can speed up and accelerate domestic business activity, this biogas as an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u103	Mr President! In the spring it comes two years from the time I get to this job, and I have to say that in this scrapping fee job, which is now, this bicycle section is probably the stupidest thing I've ever witnessed in this house. I mean, this is totally inconceivable. I understand the scrapping fee. I am not a big fan of it, but this time I would have supported the scrapping premium on the grounds that the sale of new cars has been slightly stalled and, of course, this would require some support and perhaps this would be a sensible way of moving it in that sense. Of course, it will be the case that these cars will now be bought a little earlier and then the sale will collapse again the following year, because these fees will be so small that they will not help the problem properly, because the biggest problem is not buying new cars, which is because there is no money. But this bicycle thing is inconceivable. When in June, as the Midsummer knew, the bike shops were asked, there were about all the bikes out. No bicycle dealer is currently in need of any support because of the interest rate because they sell record sales. I don't know. Helsinki City Councillor Diarra got a bicycle, and I can't help but wonder if the ministers have, because this doesn't really make any sense. For example, Mrs Torniainen spoke recently about these visits, but we are not able to follow in any way how those bicycles are sold there on the market. As an example, I can say that I have a hobby car in my backyard, which I would be selling for 350 euros whole. Well, now I should sell that Jesus old Taunus as parts, sell the gearbox separately, and then put it in the basket for the junkman's journey, i.e. our own business, so I get a 1000 euros electric bicycle for it. This is completely insane. This doesn't really make any sense to a pearl. That may have been the opinion of the committee the night before, but at least it felt like it — I may have misunderstood it, but I assumed that everyone was of the opinion — that this did not make sense in this form, but that after one night’s sleep things changed. I can't just... Then why don't we share a bicycle with everyone if this is such a good thing that this sharing of bicycles will save this world, and it doesn't matter what it costs society? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u104	Mr President! This is the representative. The valley, in colorful terms, highlighted the drawbacks of this presentation. I am not going to repeat them, but let me just say that this report also contains a joint objection from the National Coalition Party and the Finns of Peru. The key to our criticism is precisely these electric bicycles and the fact that, in practice, this subsidy or reward covers its entire purchase price in this proposal, which we have discussed. We had a debate specifically on whether these cases of abuse would arise here. But that's it. I would simply like to say to this proposal at all that, in view of this economic situation, I think that the proposal is very well founded, given the way in which the Finnish car trade has squatted in the face of this crisis. This is precisely a good way to give a little boost to the car trade and thus also to safeguard the jobs and tax revenues of Finnish people, but, admittedly, there is also an aspect to this theory of how much such a scrapping premium will actually have an impact on the total renewal of the car fleet, or how much this reward will cause people to leave as if earlier to change their own cars, whereas then, of course, later on, they will of course not change the car because it has already been done in the past. But all the same, in view of this situation, this proposal is justified. In the future, we should do a much bigger renovation on the taxation of Finnish motoring, but I am not going to do it now because this debate concerns this scrapping premium. Let me just say to the end that I look forward with great interest to the fact that when this scrapping premium experiment or period ends, we will then see from the statistics how this aid has been distributed in respect of cars and these electric bicycles and public transport tickets and others, and what kind of experience is there of this also in relation to these authorities which have distributed the aid? I think there is a lot to learn from it in this Chamber, too, that if this type of scrapping premium trials are still being carried out in the future, how can it be further improved?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u105	Mr President! Thank you when it is time to thank you, and I think that this government proposal on this issue of scrapping premiums is, as a rule, a good one. After all, these scrapping premium campaigns have been going on for several years. I think it was during the time of the Minister for Transport, Paula Risiko, when the scrapping premium was first implemented, and some times since then we have been here to decide, and this is what we are doing once again. This will remove old scrap from transport and also from the yard to decompose and, in that respect, to pollute the environment, and that is a good thing. I think these criteria for these cars, which are eligible for scrapping premiums, are good. So they must have been owned and used and so on, so that no car wreck can now be bought from there and then return it to be scrapped in terms of the scrapping premium and thus net money. This is therefore not possible; the criteria are rather strict in that respect. That's a good thing. I would have liked this vehicle to have had a higher CO2 emission limit. Now it is a little low, 95 grams, and the result is that the range of cars is quite small. If this CO2 limit had been slightly higher, we would have accommodated more than one type of family car among these criteria and thus had more choice for different types of use with regard to the vehicle it was acquiring. In that respect, I would have made a bit of a difference in my own way. Well, this was the good part of this show. 90 % of this is a good proposal, but then the issue of electric bicycles raised by Mr Laakson and Mr Marttinen is quite incomprehensible to me. I do not quite understand why we must now support e-biking in this way. We have to ask whether there has been a cow trade in the government on this issue. What have you agreed there so that this sort of absurdity has been brought here, when many of the members of the committee here in the corridors and in this Chamber have also spoken that originally this e-bikes section has not been supported in this? This is what I deeply marvel at, but now that it is time to go, let it go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u106	Mr President! This car's scrapping commission is worth it. Here colleagues have told us very well how the car trade has been able to see the clot, and, of course, what is important is that we then get the most polluting vehicles off that road. Of course, as Mr Honkonen pointed out, we can think about these income-sharing effects, namely that those people who buy completely new cars or new electric bicycles are hardly the lowest-income people, and in that sense I hope that when we look at the impact of this proposal on the sale of these bicycles and the possible abuse of this aid at all, for example, we will also look at these income-sharing effects, that is to say, where people in the income category have taken up these performances. But just as colleagues here have said about the Finns and the assembly — and I must say that it was admitted from the government parties too — there is a strange flower in this performance, which concerns these electric bicycles. The bikes have been out of the country for a while, because cycling has indeed increased popularity. In the spring such a bicycle boom was seen, because it is quite clear that when people sought to get out of those crowded public transportation, they wanted to buy bicycles. Then, on the other hand, this type of subsidies wants to have a first price distorting effect, i.e. this will affect the fact that there will then be a calculation of the amount of that price fork in such situations, where demand is great, to go screw up. And then, of course, there is the possibility that this kind of support can then be misused so that these wheels can be sold forward. Of course, these season tickets and combined services may also involve a similar risk. This is where I think it would have been worth thinking about here in Parliament and wondering how this proposal could have been corrected. I think it would have been quite possible at a time like this. It seems strange to me that we, in particular, now have such a special emphasis and effort on these electric bicycles. For example, from the point of view of those working in sparsely populated areas, consider this: even if you have an electric bicycle, if you have commuting between 50 and 60 kilometres, these subsidies will certainly not be hit in that area. In my opinion, there are also such regional policy distortions, not just these income-divided problems. Yes, when fuel pumps are fueled in Eastern Finland and in the north
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u107	Mr President! It is quite right that the renewal of old cars should be encouraged and supported by a small contribution. It is true that this Finnish car, mentioned by Mr Könttä, has a lifetime of about 12 years, after which the car is likely to be scrapped, is too long. There are a lot of things that go wrong in a way. Car safety is not at the best possible level, emissions may be higher and they are. Then we must remember that driving modern cars today is much safer. They have a lot of features that these old cars don't have at all. There is anti-slip protection, there is ABS brakes and so on, airbags and others, which increase passive safety in the car to an essential degree. It is a good thing that this development is being supported by the state, but even though we are now in a strong crisis period, in this car policy we should be able to achieve long-term development and I would like to see a steady long-term plan move forward in order to achieve a much better renewal of the fleet. It is a very worrying phenomenon that when cars are being replaced in our neighbours, they will then be brought to Finland when they are cheap. When a five-year-old car has been imported from Germany — a good, excellent car there — it has been happy to sell out when new, more sophisticated cars are replaced by a very fast and cheap store, and then those old cars come here to Finland. That is not a very good development, because it then gives us the reason for buying more and more old cars, and that rejuvenating process of cars is, in a way, going to be a bit of a joke. But this is our national decision-making power. I hope that one day we will find that this kind of development is not necessarily a good thing for Finland. Representative The small support for electric bicycles mentioned by Essayah: I agree slightly with the fact that it is targeted at areas where there is a great deal of other access. It cannot be imagined that under rural conditions or everywhere in Finland that electric bicycle would be good. I do some cycling myself in the summer and always try to ride bicycles even more, but everyone knows that long distances between bikes are of no use at work. Of course, I have once seen such a miracle that a lumberjack took a bicycle to the plot, but there was a reasonable reason: there was a 15 - mile [15 km] car, and when the car was broken down, there was no other choice when you had to go to the site, you had to go there. Once upon a time, I've seen it come in handy. But in Finland, in a country of long distances, a car is really a necessity. I hope that when future legal projects are carried out on cars, this will be taken into account because it is such a thing that if you want to keep Finland running, then it necessarily means that private cars are profitable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u108	Mr. Speaker! Perhaps a few ideas on what Mr Laakso has said in his own speech, which I think has been well weighed up and well thought out. It is clear that, in this scrapping premium as well as in other subsidies provided by society or in such subsidies, there is always the element that the market will be somewhat disrupted — as is now the case with the car trade, as you described, but then again when this scrapping premium is not used. — These elements are always involved and must always be remembered for all kinds of state aid, whether they are directed at private people as this or legal persons, that they undoubtedly have these effects, but it must always be weighed against the social benefits that can be achieved by this. I personally believe that, in this economic situation, the benefits of this acceleration in the car trade right now, when employment has fallen due to this corona crisis and other factors, are the result of the fact that, in this particular situation, this scrapping premium is justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u109	Mr President! Emissions have been partly a guiding factor in this proposal and in the previous subject. Of course, there is a huge amount of emissions from passenger transport, but in that respect we must remember the whole and take into account, above all, heavy traffic and also how steep our roads are. In other words, a lot of consumption savings can be achieved there too, but above all, I personally feel that having a newer car fleet would be a significant factor in improving safety, because the car is really a lifeline. Here I would also like to point out and take note of what was also heard in that committee that it is of course important, in the spirit of the circular economy, that all materials are used as well as possible for these scrapped cars. In my speech earlier, I also drew attention to this support for electric bicycles, not from the point of view that it would be totally unfair, but precisely from the point of view that I think that there would have been some sort of percentage limit or ownership. It would have already increased the consideration that has to be made when, for example, a new electric bicycle is acquired. As regards those risks mentioned by Essayah in relation to, inter alia, these season tickets and combination services, the expert consultation did not consider the risk to be so high for them, but there is a risk for these electric bicycles because it is easier to re-sale in that event than for these season tickets and combined services. And lastly, Mr President, this regional justice, which a few representatives also spoke about. That was taken into account in the committee's report. It is quite true that in sparsely populated areas — where distances are long between jobs, home, childcare and hobbies — public transport, combined services or electric bicycles are not a real option. In this respect, there are also shortcomings in this proposal from the point of view of regional justice. I would also have been able to correct it at this percentage limit, with regard to these electric bicycles.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u110	Mr President! Finland is a country of long distances, and in most of Finland a passenger car is necessary now and in the future, it is a fact. Meeting the emissions targets for transport necessarily requires a wide range of measures and means, and there must be a large number of them, and the scrapping premium is also a small way to achieve this. But there are many other far-reaching things in this government proposal. In my opinion, these include the fact that we are also renovating the Finnish passenger car fleet, making it more renewable and also less emission, while at the same time reviving the car trade in this difficult economic situation. When I happened to visit the car dealership — I was not buying a new car or changing a new car, but otherwise I visited the car dealership — there was also such a message from the car vendors that this scrapping premium is a good way to go in this difficult situation. Mr President! In this debate too — just as we did in the Committee on Transport and Communications when we discussed this matter — this electric bicycle took on a major role and whether or not it should be involved. The expert hearings also provide for a maximum percentage of the purchase price of electric bicycles and public transport tickets, including in order to prevent misuse of its system. I must say that the committee has fully identified the possible shortcomings of this law, but has nevertheless kept it to the point that there is as simple a method of compensation as possible, so that there will be no trouble again if there are a variety of methods of compensation. I myself also recognise this problem, which is, and I also originally thought that there could have been a percentage compensation for an electric bicycle and then a maximum of EUR 1000, but this has been achieved between the government parties. It is clear to the committee that the system will, in addition to its positive effects, also provide some scope for abuse, but that abuse cannot be assessed in advance, and how it should be followed up. In fact, this overall consideration has resulted in the solution proposed in the government proposal for electric bicycles. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u111	Mr President! I think that the Vice-President of the committee has very much mirrored the committee's debate, which is very similar to that of this House, and the arguments that the committee has now made its report. In my opinion, we must raise the government to fram and, in particular, thank you very much for the speed with which this legislation has now been prepared. Of course, as has been said in this Chamber, road safety and, in particular, climate policy is the starting point, and both in the previous paragraph and here we are taking some small steps in transport, but all the measures that are being taken are good. This has a clear impact on employment, and also on the economy, apparently a positive effect, so at least all calculations show and assume. This is a very good tool for the business situation in the car trade, but if the whole car industry is counted, there are thousands of jobs, not just this trade, but in this situation I think this is a good accurate tool. Well, then this e-bike thing that's been discussed: I guess it's just over two tons now, the average price of electric bicycles, so I don't see this abuse as such a fear. I think this has a positive impact on the Finnish bicycle industry too, and of course in urban areas, as has been the case with this debate on regional policy, this theme of promoting cycling may also have an impact of this kind. All in all, this is another small step towards that zero-emission transport and also towards improving road safety and this cyclical situation and employment. Even small decisions of this kind have positive effects in the long run.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u112	Mr President! This really does reflect that something has happened, that some transactions have been made or something like that, because the atmosphere that has been in the past was quite different. But there is really nothing here but ideology, because everyone realises that this bicycle section has nothing but apparent climate goals. Firstly, this is even unequal, both regionally and in terms of income categories. There is, in a way, no basis for this, which is why this bicycle section is involved. Mr Torniainen has just said that this is clearer. Well, then why don't we just give them the cars for free?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u116	Mr President! First of all, I regret the fact that I did not get to the debate on the motorway until this point, and I must say that it is a melting process that I have heard. [Sheikki Laakso’s interlude] Am I to understand that Mr Laakso is discussing the debate here in committee? We have a draft report here, which is public, but the debates in committee are not public, Mr Laakso. You are not allowed to go through the atmosphere or the debate that we have had there within the committee, and I am very appalled at what I have heard, which was on top just when I came to this Chamber. In this regard, this scrapping premium is to be welcomed and good legislation that this is part of a diverse range of means to move towards more environmentally friendly transport, making it possible to replace these more polluting cars, the old car fleet, with a new one. We therefore support the Finnish car dealership, which has suffered during the corona, and since this has now been decided to support electric bicycles, we also support the domestic e-bikes market. Any e-bike purchased from that store will certainly be of benefit to our own market as well as will probably be used in the future. This question, which I heard in the previous speech, is, in that respect, very sad to hear. The committee did, of course, hear from these stakeholders, experts, and it was pointed out that there was also a possibility of abuse here. That is why the committee has included in the draft report that this issue needs to be followed up, and we are also trying to avoid these possible abuses with regard to future legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u117	Mr President! It was pointed out above how this scrapping premium is clearly subject to conditions which can ensure that there is no trading as if for profit in order to obtain this scrapping premium. I wonder whether, in the same way, the e-bike could not have improved this issue, for example, through ownership. I would also like to mention these regional policy problems. Think of this performance: If you look at people living in Eastern and Northern Finland who have the worst roads under their bikes, whether they are two-wheeled or four-wheeled, with this support to support the purchase of a new car, this will support the purchase of an e-bikes, a season card or such combined tickets, then none of them will be available for low-income commuters there. So if you think that he can't buy that new car, let alone that electric bicycle would be useful if his business trip was 50 to 60 kilometres, or when there is no public transport, how would he get the benefits of these different ticket systems? In that sense, unfortunately, there is quite a regional policy package of aid, which is what this is. For Mr Kymäläinen's information, I said in my earlier speech that you would be pleased to get the most polluting cars off the road, but it must be noted that there are both these differences in income categories and also differences in regional policy. And I am thinking of the fact that EUR 2000 is also a large amount of money. When we started to grant these first corporate subsidies in the spring, when many of us, such as physiotherapists, foot nurses, masseuses and hairdressers, were once and for all stopped on the wall as they were doing their jobs and doing business, and as business name entrepreneurs there, many were quite surprised at the fact that, in this situation, this EUR 2000 was marketed as a big aid for these people who were concerned with the whole of their livelihood. Now it seems that this EUR 2000 is very easy to support those people who already have a job and who could then use it for their jobs. Unfortunately, this is the support of people with good income, especially those who work in growth centres, this support for the electric bicycle. In other words, I would have liked it to have been possible for a bad motion to be rejected here in Parliament, or at least to change it so that it would not work so glaringly. If we already know in committee that this is a source of abuse, then this is not a very good situation, and we would have liked a better outcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u118	Mr President! Before the representative The Kymäläinen is horribly appalled, so you can watch what has been discussed in this Chamber on video. I'll use those arguments there. A representative of the Government Party has also expressed its views on this issue today. It has clearly become clear in this Chamber that there has been a debate on a number of issues in this regard, and I then told you that I disagreed with it here and that I saw it the same way as, for example, a representative who is actually a representative of the government party. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u119	Congressman Kymäläinen. Let us focus on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u120	Mr President! This is where Mr Essayah raised and questioned this regional balance. I would like to say that there is, of course, a certain level of truth in this speech. We in this Chamber are not always able to make such presentations that would be as relevant to put into practice in that northern part of Lapland as we did in our largest and trafficed cities. This regional balance is sometimes difficult to find, but one thing that unites all the regions, the whole of Finland, is our common emission target, and we all benefit from achieving these goals when we can move short commuting to the cycling side in urban areas or remove these old vehicles that produce the most emissions. The purpose of supporting work-place transport is precisely to bring low-emission cars or electric bicycles or other types of vehicles to the market in order to make these uses more widespread and affordable and to enable more and more of us to acquire them when used once they have entered the transport sector. In that first speech, I regretted that I was late, and at this point I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Mrs Tornia, for the fact that this committee's draft report has been dealt with in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u121	Mr President! In my opinion, there has been a good debate in this Chamber on this important issue and, as I have already said several times, transport's emissions targets are challenging and all means must be used to achieve the emissions targets — even small actions are big in the end. The fact is, as I said earlier, that in most of Finland a personal passenger car is necessary. It is a fact, but surely an electric bicycle can be used in large settlements, in large city centers to go to work and get out of it, as well as to engage in a hobby. It can also be a good way for us in the future. And when we have had this debate, when we read this report from the Committee on Transport and Communications, it is well stated here that ‘the reduction in the amount of aid to be paid for the purchase of electricity-assisted wheels may also be assessed by some estimates ofthe level of the premiums to be paid for the purchase of different vehicles and from the point of view of regional equality’, but the committee has ended up with a proposal from the government in It is also stated here:‘The committee considers it clear that the systems However, according to a report by the rapporteur ministry, it is impossible to assess the extent of possible abuse at this stage. That is why, in my opinion, this should also be followed in the future. Then I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this makes it possible for personal public transport tickets to be allocated in this area of scrapping premiums, too, to be one of the things that could be at stake here in the capital region, for example. In their own protest, the Finns have drawn attention to this issue, but have not put it to be deleted from this government proposal. Mr President! I know that this government proposal will certainly be discussed elsewhere in this House, but in my opinion this government proposal is good and forward-looking.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u122	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u123	Mr President! We have a great export industry in Finland. It has been a major source of Finland’s well-being throughout the ages, and it must be ensured that it continues to be so. This does not happen automatically during the corona period. The post-cyclical nature of the export industry made me work last spring too, and despite the fact that the government and Finland and the Finns were very successful in fighting the interest rate, it was already seen that the export industries will be in trouble at the time. In the summer, I took the initiative to abolish the fairway charge, and now that I am looking at this dejection of the export industry, I am more and more confident that my bill was significant. We must ensure that, at least from this house, we do not undermine the competitiveness of our fine businesses, but look to the future rather than the past. This is what almost all the experts who are familiar with the removal of the fairway charge are hoping for. In fact, this was also the opinion of the Ministry of Transport and Communications until suddenly no longer was. I'm not going to go into any more speculation about this U-turn here, but the government likes to collect taxes, and it's a tax-like fee. What, then, is at the root of this? It is a question of jobs for Finnish people whether to invest in Finland or not. Of course, the abolition of the fairway charge will not eliminate all problems or solve them, but it is a step in the right direction. On the basis of this speech and therefore, I would like to make a proposal for a statement: ‘The Parliament requires that the Government not delay the preparation of a draft law on the permanent abolition of fairway charges. “ — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u124	Mr President! Indeed, it is proposed that this halving of the fairway charges should continue for next year. This is where the assembly strongly criticises this proposal, and we would have made a bigger reduction in these bus fares in the future. This temporaryity for next year is, in my view, justified. I have seen that the people of the United States in this Chamber are also demanding a return to fiscal discipline, but then, once again, when these substance laws and budget laws come in, then there is no requirement. I think it is quite justified that this is now being imposed on us to remain in force for the next year. And then, inevitably, when we come back to the budgetary frameworks, we will have to look at the adjustment side of expenditure in the long term in order to achieve this long-term balance between debt and government finances, as long as we recover from this crisis, then we will have to look again at these receipts. As such, I am very much in favour of this. And I am sure that this strong speech by the Assembly has been quoted on this issue. I would like the same support when we talk about, for example, industrial transport aid, transport aid for the sparsely populated region of Eastern and Northern Finland. Unfortunately, my memory of the previous government is that the assembly did not receive much support for this, even if I understand that as a society, our common goal must be the ability and competitiveness of industry throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u125	Mr President! Indeed, Finland lives on exports, and why should we not support exports what we can do now, that goes without saying. That is why we Finns have made a multi-scaling statement about this that the entire bus charge will be abolished. The reality is that Finland's exports need support in every way possible. It's really the only way we're going to get back on our feet right now in our corona-ridden country. The internal market must also work, but exports are actually what brings the right growth to a new career, and then there is no need to constantly experiment on one thing or another and to split money to get things going. Here is a good example of how we can immediately help exports. - Thank you. [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne :RepresentativeLaakso,did you ask for a statement orsubsidisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u128	Ärade Herr Talman! Förslaget om fortsatt cheaperade farledsavgifter är viktigt och stöder finländsk export och sjöfart samtidigt som det stöder just exporten när avgifterna blir lägre. Det är ändå viktigt att hålla kvar systemet med farledsavgifter effectom det skapar ett incitament för att säkerstalla att Finland har regelbundna transporter till och från Finland samt säkerstalla att det finns fartyg som kan trafikera Finland vintertid utan isbrytarassians. Farledsavgifterna används bland aet för att finansiera isbrytning, och därför är det logiskt att de fartyg som inte har någon isclass och inte kan trafikera Finland vintertid betalar en högre farledsavgift, Vilket man gör med dagens system. Det auri skapar ett incitament för att det finns fartyg med hög isclass för att upprätthålla transporter till och från Finland också under en sträng isvinter. Farledsavgifterna blir också lägre för de fartyg som regelbundet trafikerar Finland, Vilket stöder finländsk sjöfart under finländsk flagg, för effect det trettionde anlöpet av ett passagerarfartyg eller det ionde anlöpet av ett lastfartyg så upphör man att uppbära farledsavgift. Av den anledningen är det bra att ha farledsavgifterna kvar som system men att hålla dem hallarade för att stöda exporten. Det är en bra compromise som jag hoppas att kan fortsätta också under komande år. Irade the Talman! Branschorganisationen Svensk Sjöfart, alltså rederierna i Sverige, skulle önska att Sverige hade samma system som Finland. Det visa att Finland i dag har ett bra system. I Sverige är farledsavgifterna mycket högre än i Finland. Sveriges sjöfartsverk föreslog för några veckor sedan att farledsavgifterna i Sverige brode höjas. Detta mitt under brinnande coronapandemi då vivi delar av sjöfarten kämpar för sin överlevnad. Förslaget är ytterst bekymmersamt, också för sjöfarten mellan Finland och Sverige, och jag har variantt i kontakt med den svenska Ministern i ärrendet samt talat med Sveriges ambassadör i frågan. Jag hoppas att detta också är en fråga som kunde tas upp på regeringsnivå lännderna emellan, och jag diskuterade frågan tidigare i dag med minister Harakka. Det är naturligtvis så att Sveriges egna beslut fattas av Sverige, men det är ändå viktigt att man politiskt i Sverige vet att denna höjning får effekt också på trafiken mellan Sverige och Finland. Därför vädjar jag till Sverige att se på den bull saken och att man också skulle kunna dr tillbaka det är förslaget. I stället skulle det vara välkommet för sjöfarten mellan Sverige och Finland om man åtminstone temporärt kunde minska farledsavgifterna, för nu måste vi hjälpa sjöfarten igenom den är krisen om trafiken ska överleva också på sikt, något som är viktigt för umgänget mellan Finland, Sverige och Åland. Irade the Talman! Vi har överlag ett bra system i Finland, och de cheaperade farledsavgifterna är en rätt bra och fungerande nivå då de stöder både finländsk sjöfart och finländska fartyg under finsk flagg med finländsk besättning och samtidigt stöder exporten. Jag hoppas regeringen redan nu börjar förbereda att hålla farledsavgifterna på den pavelerade nivån också för nästa år, 2022, alltså om tvåår. Ett gives viktigt stöd för sjöfarten är de stöd som nu kanliseras via trafik- och communicationsverket Traficom. Det är livsviktigt för Finlands och Ålands försörjningsberedskap på kort och på lång sikt då marknaden nu är satt ur spel genom konsekenser som kommit av coronavirusets resebegränsningar och karantänkrav. Tidigare i veckan kom Traficom med nya beslut gällande upphandlingar, och de är mycket, mycket väkomna. I går då jag kom med peräran från Åland var det 80 passagerare omodor på ett fartyg som kan ta 3000 passagerare. Det är åtminstone enkelt att hålla avstånde, men som en vä av sjöfarten är det fruktansvärt att se denna kris som branschen nu går igenom. Här är Traficoms stöd oerhört viktigt, men de pengar som ricksdage har budgeterat kommer inte räcka om krisen fortsätter reserve utdragen trots att det nu finns positiva tecken om ett vaccin. Därför är det viktigt att nu förbereda en ny påfylllning av stödpotten och att regeringen också tittar på förordningen och kan förlänga den frårsskiftet till nästa år och säkerstalla att pengarna räcker så att rederierna kan ta sig igenom den är jobbiga krisen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u129	Mr. Speaker! Mr Löfström spoke very well and expertly on this government proposal and on this important issue. According to the Government's proposal, the halves of the fairway charges will continue next year, as has been the case so far, in practice since 2015. The aim of the reduction of the fairway fee is to reduce the cost burden on industry, especially industry. This is important in this difficult pandemic situation. Industry, especially the export industry, is in very, very big trouble, and even small acts are big in the final picture. The Committee on Transport and Communications has dealt with this government proposal in a short time, and although the committee's report is very short, I think it is very good and very clear. It is important that we continue to halve the fairway charges next year. Among other things, the Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK) has welcomed the Government's objectives to reduce the costs of foreign trade logistics in the context of a pandemic. It is important that the operating conditions of the business community are safeguarded by all means. I hope that this government proposal will move forward as it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u130	Mr President! First of all, it must be said that the decision to continue to halve the fairway charges will not improve the competitiveness of Finnish industry by one cent. The fact that competitiveness is improving means that we need to do something more. That is why the Parliamentary Group in the Coalition Party has proposed that the levying of fairway charges should be abolished altogether, and Mrs Kausanto has done a very good job here, and I also support this proposal for a statement which she has made here today in the debate. This will also be included in the alternative budget for the Assembly, and we really hope that the government will now consider, in its own work, whether it is possible to address this issue. At the end of the day, however, we have little means of dealing with and affecting the transport costs of industry and our companies. And yet, now that the government has made quite a big effort to increase fuel taxation — and that is what we will, in fact, be dealing with later today — if and when we want to do good for the Finnish industry and ensure that Finnish jobs here will be preserved, I think it is quite right that this issue should be re-examined, because, nevertheless, our companies, our industries will be leaving the back way in relation to European competitors, therefore, because we are here in the back of Europe. Geography, however, is something we cannot do about it ourselves, but these measures, which are in the hands of this Chamber, we can do, and that is why, Mr President, we have wanted to keep this issue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u131	Mr President! Fairway charges entered into force at the time, in 2005, and were then collected in full until 2015, and then halved the fairway charges, [Ari Torniainen’s interlude] These arguments have already been heard in the speeches by Mr Marttinen and Mrs Kautto, which will have an impact on competitiveness. Many people also forget that the mere fact that transit connections through us are more competitive means that more goods will start to pass through Russia and Russia, for example, and then the result will be that the rest of the economy will be accelerated and the payments made by the state will actually increase by a very small increase in transit traffic more than the share that will be paid for by the abolition of bus charges. That is why it would be very valuable for you, the government, to take this action, that is to say, to abolish all charges on the fairway, so that we can have another new way of coping with our export industry and thereby generate tax resources for society and contribute to the effort to ensure the well-being of our nation. The abolition of the fairway charge would also make transport more efficient. Ships could stop by more ports when they visit, instead of paying for visits separately every time. It would make transport more efficient and would also be an environmental act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u133	Mr President! As colleagues have pointed out here, this halving of the fairway charges by yourself is nothing new, and only the practice and legislation that are already in force are being continued. In the sense that I have listened to the government's defence when it is asked how the competitiveness of Finnish companies is supported, this has been presented as an opening, as if something new and wonderful has come, something that is now helping companies in a special way. The second thing that has been mentioned in these contexts is this reduction in the tax on electricity. It must be borne in mind that both of them are concerned that Finnish companies do not get any particular competitive advantage here compared to competing countries, but that these Finnish companies, which, because of their geographical and climatic location, are in these circumstances, are on the same line, rather than on the same line, [SunaKymäläinen's interlude] The fact that, as a whole, this abolition of the fairway charge would be something that would improve this competitive situation for our companies has been well mentioned here in the speech of the Assembly. And, of course, it must be remembered that this current fairway charging system certainly causes these deviations from ports not to be done in so many ways and the efficiency of transport to be impaired, and in that sense, it would be more sensible for the environment if we could take more cargo to transport on the same job and these fairway charges would not be the thing to avoid them from going to the port. I therefore hope that in future we will be able to eliminate these bus charges as a whole. For the moment, the government is expected to take the measures that give Finnish companies a competitive advantage, i.e. to improve the situation, not that we are on the same lines as we have been on the back way so far, but that we would actually come up with those proposals to improve the competitiveness of Finnish companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u134	Mr President! To this previous speech, it is necessary to say that we have not argued in the government that this half-payment and the proposal to halve next year would be a new invention or our own invention. We have not argued that, contrary to what Mr Essayah said there. This is one way of promoting and supporting our shipping. And indeed, it was pointed out here that we are not on the same line as the others by halving the fairway charges, but, Mr Essayah, if the fairway charges were completely abolished, we would again be on the same line with foreign operators. It would benefit seafarers flying the flag of the Bahamas as well as domestic seafarers. That is why, during this interest rate, when these various support measures are being taken and implemented, we have chosen the line that we are seeking, above all, to take the measures that we can use to support domestic shipping companies and, above all, shipping. A good example of this is the maritime aid presented last week, where all the benefits that the state is investing in go to domestic seafarers. This is a very conscious choice for us. We want to support industry and industry and Finland's competitiveness by compensating for the loss of revenue and the profitability challenges incurred by commercial shipping and its transport customers. There is certainly a great deal to be done, and, as Mr Löfström has said here, it is certainly worth looking at a measure such as this one for next year, as well as that which I have just mentioned, which I support — HE 209, maritime aid. But these are the proposals that we, as a Parliament, expect from the Ministry, and then we will do our work on that basis. But to this end, I would like to emphasise: The total abolition of fairway charges will benefit foreign operators as much as domestic operators. This does not give us any kind of head start compared to what this halving is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u135	Mr President! There's a little protectionism in the air here. When we consider how Finland is positioned in free competition in the world,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u138	Mr President! However, just as Mrs Kausto said, this has been the case. To Mr Kymäläinen, I would like to say that whenever we have asked what the government has done for the competitiveness of companies, then this electricity tax and these bus charges will be raised. When I look back on that information from the Ministry of Finance on the budget for the coming year, the Minister of Finance, Mr Vanhanen, was then acclaiming this issue of fairway payments and then on the other hand this issue of electricity tax. At first I thought, well, this bus fare thing is going on. With regard to the electricity tax, that is, of course, great, but it comes to the same level as our European competitors are already at the moment, that is to say, there is no special competitive advantage. In that sense I think that yes, however, the kind of argument from the board has been that these now would be special measures, just like these special and special measures, for Finnish companies. And when asked what the measures are, these two have been repeated after they have been repeated. That there have been no other presentations, and when it is expected, whether there are now some openings, for example, for local agreement or whether there is something that could actually be considered better than the competitive position of companies, then there has not been any. These are the two things that are repeated over and over again in the speeches. In that sense, I think it is quite right to raise this criticism here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u139	Mr President! Of course, it is up to the opposition to give criticism. However, I do not understand why there is a place for criticism in such a case, in which we are therefore continuing to halve the fairway fee. It would, of course, be worse if this bill had not been made so that we could not deal with this issue at all. As I said in my previous speech, this support for maritime transport consists of a number of measures: this is one such measure and, as I said, maritime aid is another one, among other things. I am sure we all agree in this House that the Finnish industry and industry and competitiveness must be supported, but I understand that there has been a great deal of criticism of the opposition to the government that too much money is being spent on interest relief, that we are in debt too much.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u142	I would like to point out that this is the fairway charges that are being processed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u143	Mr President! This is the representative. The Kymäläinen referred to the opposition by saying that we have also been concerned about this debt. We have indeed been, and in this regard, now that we are proposing this abolition of fairway charges, we have made a proposal for it in our alternative budget, including how it will be covered, so take care of this. Mr. Speaker! When Mr Kymäläinen mentioned this tourism in Lapland too, I will just say to the very end that, now that we are dealing with this transport package, what if instead of looking at new support measures, you would draw up clear, good travel instructions through which tourists will be able to travel to Lapland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u144	Mr President! When this removal of fairway charges would indeed be EUR 50 million, it must be remembered that, in our economy, costs that will become revenue in the future will not be short-sighted and certainly will not be a waste of state resources. In other words, we have different costs, which are done through the budget, and some of them are such that they will definitely accumulate in the future as revenue. Unfortunately, however, the government has had a lot of public finance costs that are not in itself going to produce those returns in the future, but rather are going to increase them even further in the future. And, of course, it is sometimes the case that very short-term savings are made in the budgets, which in fact in the future will generate more costs than the savings that will be made in the moment. In other words, we have to understand when we make investments, that we have the kind of investments that come back multiple times: they come in return, they come in return, they become the competitiveness of these companies, they become additional jobs, they become tax revenue. In that sense, it could be said that not all the expenses we are talking about in this Chamber are in that way in common.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u145	Mr President! In this respect, I think that Mr Essayah and Mr Marttinen have made a point, and I will not go into that further. I just want to say that when this possibility was examined at the Ministry in the spring and expert opinions were requested, more than 90% of expert opinions were in favour of abolishing fairway charges. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u146	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u147	Mr President! So this is a reduction in the emissions of so-called paraffinic diesel. We have an objection to this in the report by the Group of the European People's Party and the Christian Democrats, and I shall now go over its main points. First of all, I would like to say that this time when the government has brought this proposal to the House is perhaps the worst possible. The reason for this is that this left-wing government has decided to increase fuel taxation by EUR 250 million, paid by ordinary motorists, Finnish industry and transport entrepreneurs. Now we are dealing with a proposal which will actually increase the taxation of diesel by EUR 105 million at the level of 2023. During the hearings with the committee and the tax section, we heard that this reduction in emissions from the near future will not affect the so-called 100% renewable fuel, because it will also be subject to this minimum EU tax after this change. But for all these other mixtures, which are still used in the market, which combine both this fossil fuel and then this renewable fuel, the tax levels will rise, and ultimately the Finnish motorist, Finnish industry and Finnish transport entrepreneur will pay for this fun. Mr. Speaker! I would like to say this because it is not a trivial matter. Last year, for example, the Finnish Forest Company UPM estimates that the impact of these government fuel tax increases on UPM alone corresponds to the annual operating profit of one paper machine. Each of us in this Chamber understands that at a time like this when the corona is tearing the whole world apart and Finland and the Finnish export industry is in very big trouble, this factor cannot under any circumstances be ignored. So all in all, with the government's proposals, there is a fuel tax increase of EUR 250 million at the bottom, and now this reduction in the so-called short-term emission reduction is EUR 105 million. We have also pointed out that the Finnish fleet is currently one of the oldest in Europe. The aim of this emission reduction is precisely to reduce air quality emissions from diesel cars. Similarly, although some experts have argued that this reduction could be removed at this point, other aspects have been raised that justify maintaining this reduction in emissions at the local level and looking to the future as the Finnish fleet renews and thus reconsiders the future of this reduction in emissions at the local level. In this way, we have also seen and argued that in this context it is not justified to abolish this reduction in emissions from the near future, but that this should be dealt with as part of a larger overall transport tax reform. This issue should come back to us later, within a five to six-year radius, when the Finnish fleet of cars has started to renew. Mr President! On these grounds, I would like to make an objection to the rejection of this bill in accordance with Amendment No 2. And this is indeed an objection made by the Coalition Party and the Christian Democrats together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u148	Mr President! First of all, I would like to support Mr Marttinen's motion for rejection in response to protest 2. Just as he has pointed out here, the Christian Democrats and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party have concluded, on the basis of a committee consultation, that this proposal to cut tax subsidies for paraffinic diesel should not be implemented. These costs of this pump price — that is to say, above the tax increase of EUR 250 million — have been highlighted here. It is estimated that this fiscal impact on the annual level would be around EUR 115 million, and, of course, when we think of the economic situation in which we are currently living, this is by no means the right time for this type of change to be brought about by companies and consumers affected by the interest rate. As has been said here, there is still this specific study, and it would have been interesting to hear what kind of final outcome would have been as part of this overall reform if it had not been so rash to leave to export this single tax subsidy. And, as Mr Marttinen said, there were views in the expert consultation which said that this technological renewal would have contributed to this benefit of paraffinic fuel, but it must be remembered that, when we have the oldest car fleet in Europe, we have not experienced the renewal of the fleet of cars at the rate that would then allow technical progress, and that we still have, regardless of the fact that technology allows something, but there is the old car fleet on that road, and in that sense the benefits of reforming this technology are not yet fully available to the motorists. In this respect, I think it is important that, in this way, the consumer's purse and the pocketbook of entrepreneurs, the business world, should not be found, and in that sense we will indeed vote in favour of this motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u149	Mr President! I, too, support Mr Marttinen's motion for rejection. In this very challenging time in which to live, I am really concerned about the position of entrepreneurs and the weak echoes that their concerns seem to be getting in government. This bill is an example of precisely that, at the worst possible time, in the middle of the corona. I have already mentioned in the previous paragraph the question of competitiveness, how entrepreneurs are able to cope, and this kind of policy does not in any way contribute to this situation in this period of time. Then, when we finally go through the whole chain, it will be the first entrepreneurs to survive, and hence jobs, it will be the workers to survive, and as Mr Essayah said at that end, then, after all, every one of us in Finland will have a purse when the costs go up. I do not see this as the right direction for Finland now in the midst of this crisis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u150	Mr President! The increase in fuel taxes and the increase in the price of paraffinic diesel in this country is certainly not sensible, because, as Mrs Kausanto has just said, companies are in enough pain anyway. This, of course, started before the corona, but of course when the corona came, this matter should have been put on ice at that point. But as has been seen, these ideological tax increases and so on are not going to change during this government. Even if a nuclear bomb explodes here, there is hardly any change in the government program — it is as concrete as possible. However, such increases in taxes on fuel make it a situation of regional inequality, of increasing transport prices, of increasing the cost of work, of increasing the competitiveness of companies, of people's money going into fuels and, therefore, of no money for newer cars, so that it can even benefit us from the apparent improvement of our climate. That is actually why we members of the Committee on Finance have also objected to this amendment, but they themselves will deal with this matter in the end. Not like this. However, once again, we will not make Finland rise out of this swamp with this constant increase in taxes. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u151	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u152	Mr President! The assembly also has objections to this report, which is now dealing with this increase in alcohol tax. I am now going to go through our views on this matter at the heart of the matter and briefly. It must now be remembered that, in the midst of this corona crisis, the Finnish tourism and restaurant sector is in a very deep crisis and the level of turnover has fallen to the worst of a quarter of the pre-crisis level. We have dealt on several occasions in this Chamber with the support measures that have been applied to the Mara sector. Against that background, it is particularly strange that, at the same time, the tax burden, which is, however, specifically on the Mara sector, on jobs and then on consumption, is being increased in the midst of this crisis. This change will therefore increase the tax wedge on restaurant delivery and further undermine the operating conditions of Mara businesses. It is also worth remembering, however, that at the moment only one-tenth of this total consumption of alcohol is directed at restaurants, and instead of constantly dealing with these increases in alcohol taxes in this Chamber, it would be very welcome if we were to deal with a broader reform of the alcohol policy, which should aim specifically at improving the performance of these tourism and restaurant companies and how tax incentives can also be used to encourage and direct consumption from homes to restaurants more, because it also has an employment effect, a tax effect and, in turn, improves the operating conditions for these companies. One example of this, which we have also raised in our protest, is the amendment of the law, which would, for example, allow restaurants to sell out alcoholic beverages with a maximum strength of wine. Mr President! On this basis, I shall make a proposal, in line with the objection of the Assembly, that we therefore propose that this bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u153	Mr President! The Christian Democratic Parliament is in line with the government on this proposal. We would like to remind you that in Finland alcohol policy is always public health, not just the national economy, and, of course, given the costs of alcohol harm to Finnish society, in that sense this national economy, in these alcohol tax changes, only in a small part, is able, through tax revenues, to cover the costs of both that social service and that of the police, salvation, health care, not to mention the human tragedies caused by excessive consumption of alcohol in Finnish society. As far as alcohol is concerned, only availability and price are factors that have been found to be relevant to alcohol consumption over the years. We have always talked about education here and hoped that it would make a difference, but our statistics show that availability and price are the factors. When considering, for example, the tax differences between different groups of alcoholic beverages and the like, it would of course be important to note that the emphasis would be on making it more reasonable and economically advantageous for the consumer, but in this tax change, as pointed out in the expert consultation, there is no desire to change the differences between these different groups of drinks. Mrs Kauto has pointed out that, when we talk about price differentials between restaurant and retail, these tax changes should always be of the kind that they would support or, it is said, that they would not at least increase this tax differential too much and hence the price differential too much, because we, of course, have a restaurant and tourism industry in this situation that can manage its own section. Of course, I believe that under controlled conditions, if we actually adhere to it, as we have to comply with the law, that people who are intoxicated, for example, are not sold, and if there are many other restrictions relating to alcohol consumption, then surely alcohol consumption at the restaurant will also be safer than those so-called underpants at home. Of course, we will still have to monitor in Finland what the tax level of these neighbouring countries is and how it can affect passenger sales.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u154	Mr President! The interest-rate crisis has hit the economy very hard, and the tourism and restaurant sector has suffered the greatest losses in these industries. The question is: is this the right time for this measure? Once again, entrepreneurs, businesses are suffering, jobs are suffering. I don't approve. I don't understand this timing. I therefore support Mr Marttinen's objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u155	Mr President! The restaurant industry is actually getting pretty good at the rest of the time, and now this restaurant price level is starting to be so high that there is no chance of living anymore. It has been a long time since many restaurants only account on Saturdays. In my youth there was even a week, a little on Wednesday, and Fridays and Saturdays were still a plus for restaurants. Now this situation will simply lead to not being in a restaurant, but to pulling underpants at home. On top of that, all sorts of things, perhaps from Estonia to the stable bars and so on, make it more difficult for the authorities to monitor and the police are more needed for home and other alarms when, so to speak, the soup is being pulled there under unsupervised conditions. In this situation, even without a corona, it would make no real sense to go down this road, but then, when we go back to making such tax increases, this really does not make any sense. If anyone thinks that this is some sort of preventive measure, so to speak, that it would make sense economically, then I can tell you when I myself have looked at the activities of a person with a drinking problem in my own family and, in my 20s, I lost my father because of the overdrinking of the product in question, that I know quite clearly that such tax increases are of no relevance to that issue. They drink who they're going to drink, and if they don't drink anything else, then they drink Lasol if they don't have enough money. However, such tax increases simply result in more imports from abroad and then withdrawals of soups at home and family quarrels of all the world and the like. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u156	The 16th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 31/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u157	Mr President! With the introduction of the Incomes Register, it has also made sense to change the systems for applying unemployment insurance contributions. Indeed, we have been told in the light of the statistics that at the moment only less than 1% of employers use this model of advance payments, and in that sense it makes sense to move on to the collection of unemployment insurance contributions on the basis of actual wage data. This is certainly a matter of cutting red tape and payment and recovery procedures in its own way, and this administrative burden will then also be reduced. In that sense, one might say that the proposal is very good and worthy of support, and it also seems to be a unanimous report from the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u158	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 9/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u159	Mr President! Let's be brief. This bill proposes to amend the fixed-term financing law for sustainable forestry, i.e. to extend the law until the end of 23. The committee dealt with this in such a way that, although the EU has not yet become a notification, the law was put into effect on this side of the year, when there will be no intolerable interruptions that always cause problems in the field. In addition, the provision on other forms of public aid was amended, i.e. it was clarified what state aid is because, for example, we now have new forms of afforestation legislation and then this kind of biodiversity-enhancing legislation — there is more than financial aid — so we want it not to become a problem. Let's just be brief about what that Kemera support is. Kemera support therefore encourages better forest growth and forest diversity. In other words, there are different types of work, from the early stalling of the trout, in addition to young forest management support, small-wood harvesting support, support for forest roads, support for the management of peatland forests, support for forest health fertiliser. In the final analysis, all of these add to the fact that we will continue to grow the forests, and to those stages of work that may not be encouraged in this overgeneration, then Kemera will be encouraged. In addition, biodiversity is supported by environmental support and support for forest management projects, i.e. there are both Metso programmes and such environmental protection agreements, natural management agreements, which can then be supported on a voluntary basis in various conservation work. Here's what Kemera is. Kemera is in the debate because in the future it may be that this type of financial system could not even exist from an EU point of view, but now we can continue this transitional period with this method. We hope that, when it is reformed, perhaps even more so would be encouraging. Some have called this current Kemera system a bit of support for a lazy man, so that is encouraged when the care work has fallen short. In other words, perhaps we will try to invest a little more in that initial phase in the future, but it will be another story, this renewable Kemera or a renewable system, then in time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u160	Thank you for presenting the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u161	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for the presentation. This is indeed a question of extending this Kemera financing law until the end of 23. The committee has considered it important that this incentive system should continue without interruption, so that this transposition of the law has indeed been speeded up. At the end of this period, the chairman of the committee raised the issue of what will be done in the future with regard to the funding of Kemera. At least I myself think that, especially in the case of young forests, that thinning and management is certainly needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u164	Thank you for the good proposals and, in any case, they will also be taken into account when discussing carbon sinks and renewing both the CAP and the forestry system. Just as you said, we have an initial reduction of between 700000 and 800,000 hectares and the same number of seedlings, and we should find factors for all of these, and that is why we need these incentive schemes. These Kemera funds also have a very large impact on employment, some 2,000 person-years a year, which means that they will be used in a very practical way. Thank you for your good remarks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u165	The 19th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 14/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-17-ps-146.u166	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Railways Act and the Transport Services Act. The laws are intended to enter into force on 1 January 2014. On 1 February 2021, with the exception of the provisions relating to the registration of vehicles, which would enter into force on 16 June 2021. On the basis of the reasons for the government's proposal and the report it has received, the committee considers the proposal to be necessary and appropriate and proposes that it be adopted in part amended. With regard to the authorisation required of the railway driver, the expert consultation feared that unlicensed exchange work would become the main rule in the future and would lead to a loss of driver competence and railway safety. In the absence of a sufficiently clear change to the wording of the section which would have met the objectives of amending the article in the Government proposal on better legal certainty and clearer regulation, the Ministry of Transport and Communications proposed that the amendments to Article 69 of the Act should be removed from the law that is now to be adopted. The committee has therefore deleted a section on the legislative proposal that is now being adopted. Otherwise, only some technical amendments have been made to the bill.
