ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 36/2020 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session of 15 December 1920. Let us move on to the sectional vote. I propose that proposals and support be made by a parliamentary group at a time. I also propose that any corrections to the Minutes be made only after the whole section has been voted on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u2	The general debate has been closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2020. A detailed examination of the proposals will be carried out in Section 29.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u3	The general debate in plenary yesterday has been declared closed. Detailed examination of the proposals will take place in the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u4	Ville Vähämäki's proposal 10 and Timo Heinonen's proposal 14 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against the 14 proposals and then against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u5	Presentation of Section 25 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Justice. At this stage, 1.5 hours will be reserved for the general discussion in the section. — The debate will be opened by the section president, Mr Filatov, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u6	Mr President! In fact, three changes were made at the committee stage to the basis on which we were dealing. So one was about funding organisations, the other was about election spending, and the third was about the smoking ban law and its consequences. So during the committee phase, EUR 900000 was added to organisations and grants were allocated to, among other things, peace-making organisations, the Human Rights Union, the activities of refugee counselling and, in addition, the prevention of violence related to related relations, Victim Support and other organisations providing support services for victims of crime. We drew attention to the appropriations for the courts. Compared to the current year, they will rise by EUR 31 million and will have been allocated additional permanent funding to facilitate trials and, in addition to this, fixed-term items will include, among other things, money for the increase in the workload associated with the reform of the fine and money for the dismantling of the congestion associated with the corona virus pandemic, the concentration of evidence on district courts and asylum cases, and a resource has also been proposed for the Vaasa Court of Appeal. Corona virus is actually visible in all of these articles. It has affected the activities of both the judiciary, prosecutors, prisons and many others and has caused congestion because, for understandable reasons, it has not been possible to act as normally. In fact, although the funding of the courts has been improved, it became clear in the committee's expert consultation that there is still serious concern about the adequacy of funding because we have, in the background of many of these institutions, major cuts in the productivity programme that have been made in the past and are still reflected in the budgets for this year and next year. The amounts are therefore difficult to compare with each other. The committee also drew attention to the ability of staff and well-being at work and suggested that this should be done in such a way as to provide a clear, proper analysis of the issues related to working time and well-being at work, because in fact there is no actual monitoring of working time and it is then a question of how resources can be directed to where congestion is the worst. Furthermore, the committee considered that, once the Court of Justice Office has started its activities since the beginning of this year, the transparency of its funding should be improved. At the moment, this is financed by Article 25.10.03, and perhaps it would be a good idea to have a very specific item in order to show what the amount is on that side. There was also an additional resource for the operational expenditure of legal aid and lobbying circles and the Consumer Disputes Board. Here we drew attention to the fact that the population is ageing, and then it is important that we also have the resources of lobbying to go as far as we have more people who need this lobbying. Then perhaps there is still reason to increase the operating expenses of the Prosecution Service. Here came a permanent level increase and in addition to one-off resources. According to the report, this increase in the budget will make it easier for the Prosecutor's Office to operate, but it will not yet fully balance the economy there, that is to say, it will still require 3 million in order to be in a balanced situation. Then there is the operating expenses of the Criminal Sanctions Agency. More than EUR 15 million more than this actual budget came, and it is directed, among other things, at reforming the conversion penalty, improving the safety of prisons, the costs of Hämeenlinna's new prison for women and, here too, at dismantling the congestion resulting from the corona epidemic. This can be maintained at this year's level, but these resources and human resources are still insufficient. For example, the Council of Europe's Committee on the Prevention of Torture (CPT) drew attention to the limited number of staff of the Criminal Sanctions Agency in September 2020. According to a report received by the committee, the productivity programme here too has in fact reduced staff by around 500 person-years, i.e. quite a large reduction, as a result of the savings made in 2006-2016. At the same time, however, it has not been possible to adapt institutional structures, and the introduction of ict projects and new prisons has taken place at a higher cost than originally and has affected this financial situation of the Criminal Sanctions Agency. In other words, it is necessary to evaluate this resource and take the necessary measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u7	Thank you to the President-in-Office. — Then, in general terms, we are a little ahead of our timetable, so Minister Henriksson is not here yet. Let us start with some of the speeches that have been asked for and then Minister Henriksson, when he arrives, and then the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u8	Mr President! The 2021 budget will strengthen the Finnish legal system. The Government proposes a total of approximately EUR 1 billion in administrative appropriations for the Ministry of Justice for 2021. The proposed level of appropriations is almost EUR 4.6 million more than in the current year. This increase is due, among other things, to investment in the management of the entire criminal chain, i.e. the police, courts and prisons, as well as information management. The budget for the coming year will make the trial and business smoother. An increase of EUR 5 million is proposed for the Aipa Information System project, the implementation of the general courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office's electronic working methods and services. An additional EUR 2.7 million will be proposed to the courts for 21 years in order to streamline the proceedings. A sum of EUR 1.7 million is proposed for the dismantling of water and environmental congestion. It is important that additional funding is provided to ensure the implementation of criminal liability. An increase of EUR 2.6 million is proposed to the Criminal Sanctions Agency in expenditure on the strengthening of the penalties for sexual offences against children and the supervision of conditional imprisonment for over 21-year-olds. It is proposed to increase the costs of the new female prison in Hämeenlinna by nearly EUR 2 million and to renew prison security technology by EUR 3.2 million. In addition, in order to improve prison security and reduce risk factors, it is proposed to increase the costs of the new security department to be set up in Turku Prison at the beginning of 21, by more than EUR 0.5 million to the Criminal Sanctions Agency. In order to secure the resources of the criminal proceedings chain, an amount of almost EUR 2.8 million is proposed. Mr President! We know that in general, the number of people in need of public interest is increasing every year as the population ages. Coronavirus pandemic has also increased the number of people in need of financial and debt counselling. I think it is important that this issue is taken into account in this budget and that the government allocates EUR 0.6 million in additional funding for legal aid and lobbying. An additional EUR 0.5 million will also be allocated to the enforcement agency to improve the advice of debtors. I believe that safeguarding the functioning of Victim Support Finland is absolutely essential, and I therefore welcome the proposal for an increase of approximately EUR 0.6 million in this budget to safeguard Victim Support Finland. President! In Finland, in the rule of law, public confidence in a functioning judicial system and in the administration of justice is very important. Citizens and businesses must have confidence that their cases will be dealt with in an efficient and smooth manner by the courts, without undue delay. The efforts made in the budget will strengthen the functioning of the justice system, and this is also crucial for Finland’s competitiveness. It is therefore essential that the Government Programme is implemented effectively and that the quality of the Government’s legislative drafting is ensured. For this reason, the proposal to increase the budget of the Ministry of Justice by EUR 1 million is fully justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u9	Mr President! In the draft budget, the administrative budget of the Ministry of Justice is about EUR 1 billion, which is a really small part of our budget, far above EUR 50 billion, and considering how important it is. There are positive increases in appropriations: permanent funding for the courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Criminal Sanctions Agency and also the IT budget and financial and debt counselling, as well as public lobbying, taking into account the ageing population. These are good things. Despite these positive increases in appropriations in the draft budget, the appropriations for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice are still too limited, Mr President, and this is something the Committee on Legal Affairs has drawn attention to. As I said at the beginning: a very important administrative sector, and yet such a small investment there. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have repeatedly pointed out the central role played by the administrative actors of the Ministry of Justice in ensuring the functioning of the rule of law and stressed that the administrative actors of the Ministry of Justice are responsible for the core tasks of the rule of law, whose effective and reliable functioning is essential for the stability and security of society. The committee has constantly drawn attention to the lack of basic funding. Three key points that I would like to raise myself on the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights: The savings of this continuing so-called productivity programme, which should gradually be eliminated. It makes no sense for additional resources to be used to adjust to the constant savings target. We should give it up. This is more of a denial of truth. The second head must be cut, and every year it must be added, and this is a disadvantage, for example, in the courts, for not being able to permanentise posts when it is not known whether there is money. And in accordance with the rule of law, for example, judges should have permanent posts. I wonder that this problem will never be put right. If the Minister were here, I would say to him that he would now stop keeping this administrative sector in pliers and resource it properly. EUR 2.7 million will be put in the courts to streamline the proceedings, but the hearings do not lead to a reduction in the total length of the proceedings and a reduction in the number of new staff. And so it is a key player in the rule of law and the fact that the committee must remind each year about this, which I find extremely worrying and, indeed, arrogant. The committee has considered that the capacity situation in the judiciary requires additional resources, both immediate and substantially improving basic funding. I would say to Minister Henriksson if he were here that he would finally put the basic funding of the judiciary at a decent level. There is a lot of talk about the rule of law here, and that has also been a key objective for us in the EU, but we have our own judiciary operating at the extremes of conscientious people. When they run out of power, they stop giving legal protection. And it is good to remember that Minister Henriksson has stressed this chain thinking that there must be sufficient funding everywhere and evenly. It's like this, if one wheel coughs, it chokes the whole chain, and this is the whole time we're in danger. The third point I would like to raise is the Criminal Sanctions Agency. The Legal Affairs Committee has raised separately the financial situation of the Criminal Sanctions Agency, which is considered particularly worrying. There are too few staff in relation to the number of prisoners, the institutional structure and the effectiveness objectives of implementation, which is reflected in the security situation in prisons, which we are constantly reading about. Although the number of prisoners has fallen, the proportion of prisoners requiring intensive surveillance has increased. However, there is particular concern at the moment about the increase in threats and aggression against staff both in prisons and in leisure time. There are strong social issues related to organised crime behind these aggressions. Violence between prisoners is often motivated by drug-related crime and related pressures and debt relationships. We continue to read these disturbing news. Unfortunately, even with Christmas money, the Committee on Finance did not remember the problem of the Court of Justice, even though we raised it, and unfortunately there were ideological projects, which I am very sorry about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u10	Now we have a minister here. I regret to the Minister that we are early, but you now have the floor and then we move on to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u11	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! I would like to begin by thanking the Committee on Finance for your work on the draft budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, the Section for Local Government and Health and the Committee on Legal Affairs. A budget of just over EUR 1 billion is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice next year, so the level of appropriations for the administrative sector is nearly EUR 60 million higher than in the actual budget for this year. For a rule of law such as Finland, citizens' confidence in a functioning judicial system and in the administration of justice is crucial. It is one of the pillars of our democracy. It is therefore very important that we ensure security and respect for the rule of law and that we allocate sufficient resources to the activities of, for example, the judiciary and the Criminal Sanctions Agency. Funding is proposed, among other things, to streamline the conduct of court proceedings and to ensure the implementation of criminal liability. In order to improve the safety of prisons, an increase of EUR 3.2 million is proposed in the reform of security technology and a similar amount of funding is also proposed in order to increase the number of prison staff. Coronavirus pandemic has caused long-term congestion and the need for additional resources for the administration of the Ministry of Justice. That is why it is important that the proposals for appropriations for the corona virus epidemic and its subsequent management are now included in the draft budget and that the first draft amending budget for next year is also taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u12	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. There were a lot of good elements in it. But I am very concerned about the situation in prisons. Organised crime takes over the sector and tries to get prisons ‘management’ to manage their activities. A couple of years ago, the leadership of the Criminal Sanctions Agency unfortunately made public information that could identify the prison guards carrying out intelligence activities in prisons, and that was a terrible mistake. They were the targets of the goal. Now the situation is that prison guards are also being abused. In this 18 months there have been nearly twenty assaults on prison guards, which have been caused by organised crime. This is a very worrying phenomenon. Of course, there should be much more prison guards, as there should be many other authorities in this area. Technical control is important. But I still throw my old ideas into the air: Should we not have our own in the fight against organised crime?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u17	Mr President! I was talking, for example, about this Refugee Advice Centre, where more money is being spent all the time. I am sure that the Court of Justice would have liked to accept that amount of EUR 300000 in this case of interest. They're in a real emergency. Minister, I do not know if you heard from the chairman of the committee what I sent you. But what is really central is that, as a minister, could you decide on this JTS billion saving target, once and for all put it in a scrap heap, when it makes no sense for the court and the judiciary and the prisons and others not to be able to plan their activities on a long string, not to be able to permanentise the staff. They will then be adjusted with additional appropriations or, even now, with some permanent appropriations. The Court of Justice said that this additional allocation, EUR 2.7 million, would not allow for an increase in the number of staff. And when you have that idea of making things more efficient and efficient, things are extensive and difficult, they cannot be made more effective indefinitely. In other words, a key rule of law factor, intervene in the structures and change this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u18	Madam President! Thank you both to the minister and to the section president for the good work and the clear focus so that we could keep things together and perhaps not split up here and there. I would like to raise a few points which have not yet come up very much in this debate. Appropriations will be increased for financial and debt counselling. This is a very good thing now that people are in a state of emergency, and more than EUR 5 million will come for enforcement of enforcement and bankruptcy. Many people do not know that there is also a great deal of advice on enforcement. I would therefore think that it is worth reviewing the ways in which both these bodies operate and concretising what can be done there. I helped someone in debt sort things out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u19	Värderade Talman! Jag vill börja med att tacka ministern för de satsningar som nu görs inom justtieministeriests förvaltningsområde. Det gäller oika satsningar på att få smidigare rättegångar, att aylsökandes rättsskydd stärks och att tillgängligheten på econ- och skuldrådgivning förbättras.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u20	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking Mr Henriksson for his presentation and for the fact that there are many good and important additions to next year's budget for the Ministry of Justice, which I myself have spoken for and supported. As a good example, I would like to raise the issue of setting up the role of reporting violence against women and the concentration of evidence on district courts. This is an important process reform and is very appropriate. It is also a good thing that 3.2 million will be invested in reforming prison security technology, but in the end it will be much more than just safety technology, and I hope that the government will also pay greater attention to this in the future. However, I would now like to take the opportunity and the presence of the Minister and ask what this sum actually brings. I would also like to ask if, when there is a resource increase, this will also enable Hämeenlinna's women's prison to be opened to the fullest extent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u21	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here and, for example, these comments by Mr Bergqvist and Mr Tolvanen, which must be emphasised in the future, are in itself included in that report by the Committee on Finance. In particular, I would like to take this representative, Mr Tolvanen, as a matter of concern for organised crime. There are many types of situations where Finnish society has been too soft on this growing problem. In the past, I myself have already made proposals for this criterion of hardening to criminal law, and that was laid down in the parliamentary procedure at the time, and now, over the years, it has been found that there is a clear reluctance to apply these criteria of hardening to the highest courts. Of course, this is the worst that will result in a kind of fear, a type of blackmail that would not be applied, but hopefully not at this stage. In any case, this line should be tightened up in legislation as far as practical resources are concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u22	Mr President! In many of us as a country in Finland we are incredibly good, even the best, but on one point we have really failed fundamentally, and this is the eradication of violence against women. It happens in homes, workplaces, online, and from this point of view, Finland is a dangerous country for women. Unfortunately, this situation has been further weakened by the interest rate. Fortunately, this budget provides an even better opportunity to tackle, prevent and combat violence against women by a variety of means — thanks for that. In the Committee on Finance, too, we made a number of important additions specifically to this package, to Victim Support and to the increase in the number of asylum places, and these will indeed be needed. On the second package, briefly. In the legal state, it is essential for everyone to have a proper and swift, smooth handling of their cases, and, unfortunately, we have legal protection for asylum seekers from this point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u23	Madam President! I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr Merta, for his excellent attention in relation to this JTS billions. I'm not going to repeat it, but there's something else. Since 2015, the activities of the Supreme Administrative Court and Administrative Rights and Legal Aid Offices have been significantly affected by the rapid increase in the number of asylum cases. For next year, the Government will propose additional funding of EUR 5.9 million for administrative courts and legal aid in the area of legal protection for asylum seekers. The matter has also been dealt with in the PS's own alternative budget, and we are proposing a reduction of EUR 5.9 million. Asylum seekers are already making a number of re-applications so that they can stay in the country. No more euros are needed for their circus.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u24	Mr President! As a Committee on Legal Affairs, we have made a number of reports on the corona period this year, and I must say that I agree with the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mere, that the common denominator for these reports has been concerned about the money and how to deal with these issues during the corona period. Of course, there have now been additions to the management of the criminal chain and to financial and debt advice and bankruptcy proceedings, but money is still not enough, so I am still concerned about the adequacy of the funds, as I am sure the committee as a whole. But I actually have a question, which has not yet come up in our committee either. We have municipalists coming next spring, we still have a global pandemic, the corona roaring in Finland. Is the government prepared with instructions or funding to securely organise municipal elections and people to exercise their right to vote there in the electoral fields? On the actual day of the election, however, people vote a lot and gather together in one place. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u25	Madam President! Good Minister! The draft budget of the Ministry of Justice has gone in the right direction, with a number of increases in appropriations. Unfortunately, however, we are in a situation where years of under-budgeting are already reflected in a permanent deterioration in the functioning of the judiciary. The additional money that has now been granted is just patching up money, but not permanently correcting the situation to the level at which it should be. In order for Finland to be a country in which the rule of law is sufficiently respected and resourced, this means in practice that the whole chain of justice — police, prosecutor, courts, prisons, the Criminal Sanctions Agency — can operate with sufficient resources to ensure that the investigation and detection of crimes is conducted well and in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u26	Madam President! Minister! Yesterday, by the Committee on Intelligence, we published the first report of the committee. The report is also historic in that, in this Republic, when the new intelligence laws are in force, it is the first report and, in particular, the first report of independent Finnish intelligence. This report concerned the annual report of the Ombudsman for Intelligence for 2019, and I would have asked if the Minister had already had access to the report and its main comments. In these key comments, we drew attention, among other things, to the fact that the Ombudsman does not have a defined substitute for the performance of his duties. The powers and rights of the delegate are very high,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u27	Madam President! Good Minister! The smoothing-up of trials is an important objective. From time to time, quite a lot of feedback comes from the fact that, in the case of victims of sexual crimes, especially child victims, these trials are too long, the wounds are torn open several times, and I would like this to be smoothed out. All in all, the lengthening of trials in these cases of violence and sexual offences is a major problem. We have spoken here about the safety of prisoners, and I would like you, Mr Henriksson, to be able to say a few more words about this. And then this internationally advanced women's prison in Hämeenlinna: is it really the case that this women's prison will open only at a limited amount of power, or have you been able to secure sufficient resources there,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u28	Madam President! I would like to enquire about the government's attitude towards criminal penalties. In particular, I find the penalties for crimes against a person or property quite ridiculous in Finland. Shoplifting and shoplifting are on the increase. I find it totally unacceptable that the same people come from day to day, shoplifting or stealing, among other things, from grocery stores without getting punished for doing things. It is estimated that theft and shoplifting will cost some EUR 550 million annually. No money, however, replaces the mental state that a person experiences at the cashier’s store, for example, when it comes on your shift to rob, for example, with a knife. Unfortunately, this happens every day somewhere in Finland, and the convictions of the robbers are completely ridiculous — if they even get a conviction, because everyone knows what the resources of the police and the prosecution department are at present. I ask you, Mr Henriksson: What are you prepared to do to minimise these shoplifting and shoplifting, among other things, and what do you say to entrepreneurs and workers who experience this every day? Are you prepared to consider, for example, that trades could apply for a restraining order against people who are constantly disrupting, because something needs to be done and quickly? This situation is also unsustainable in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u29	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the comments made here on the resourcing of the criminal chain and also on the strengthening of debt counselling. There have been a number of exceptions to enforcement, bankruptcy and the regulation of quick-leases during the corona period, and the committee has indeed emphasised this synergy of regulation and its consideration in the future, but perhaps even more strongly the urgent need for permanent legislative changes, both in terms of enforcement and in terms of non-payment labelling. With a number of reforms on the status of over-debted persons in progress, I would like to ask: when will reforms relating, for example, to retention times for default marking, a positive credit register or a possible increase in the enforcement component be brought to Parliament? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u30	Mr President! Mr Tolvanen and Mr Koskinen made a good speech here on organised crime and, if I have understood correctly, there is no indication of organised crime in the government programme, even though it has infiltrated the structures of society for the entire decade and is an even greater threat. Will you, Minister of Justice, now move forward with the idea that organised crime should be governed by its own separate law, which will then go through these details, the security aspects, the goal of the authorities and everything else that this should finally be addressed? Gangging, including ethnic crime, is on the rise and getting rougher, and violence and intimidation threaten organised society. Are you going to take the matter forward, even though it has not been mentioned in the Government Programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u31	Mr President! My dear Minister! There is a real concern here about how the legal protection of asylum seekers will come about, but at the same time, at the same time, we have Finnish people, former taxpayers, perhaps at some point, in the process of enforcement, if someone were to advocate this, because there would also be an increase in the famous employment rate in order to motivate those people to work. Indeed, now there are many people who are mentally incapacitated and unable to do so, and even if there is some kind of help that can be obtained from somewhere, there is no proper channel to these things, however, that they can manage their own affairs properly in that mental state, and at the same time the loan sharks and creditors are pressing on and increasing the burden.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u32	Madam President! The contrast between such matters, such as enforcement or asylum seekers, is a little peculiar... [Leena Meri opened her microphone and the speaker’s microphone closed]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u35	Madam President! The Korona virus has hit heavily on those who are already disadvantaged in our society. The restrictions have been heavy and severe for many of us. In prisons, however, even minor rights, such as studying and meeting loved ones, have had to be severely restricted. During the epidemic, I have been particularly concerned about the children of prisoners who, during the spring, were not allowed to meet their parents in prison face to face for months. I would like to ask the Minister: how do we secure these meaningful meetings for the child and how they will be implemented in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u36	Irade the Talman! Jag vill också tacka regeringen och justititieministern för att för första gången på länge ha lyckats höja anslagen till justtieministerieets förvaltningsområde, även om det är helt klart att det ännu finns många behov då det är arbetet måste fortsätta. Jag tänker också att det tycks vara helt nödvändigt att vi i varje taltur i ricksdagen fortsätter att påminna oss om att vår grundlag säger att varje människa är läs inför lagen. Det är en grundläggande fråga. Ett av de största människorätttsproblemen vi har i Finland är våld mot kvinnor, och därför är jag valdigt glad att kvinnorörelsens rop genom över 100år äntligen resultsat i att vi skapar en sådan rai nationalell rapportör som behandlar våld mot kvinnor, för att äntligen hitta nya system och ha sådan information att vi skulle kunna stoppa det er våldet. Kvinnorörelsen har jobbat med det rai i över 100 år, och man tycker att vi i ett land som
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u37	Mr President! In his own speech, Mr Meri considered the allocation for refugee counselling to be ideological. Mr President, the Finns of Peru are making this ideological. Regardless of whether this is ideological or not, I think it is valuable that funds have been increased for the activities of peace labour organisations, for the support of the Human Rights Union, for refugee advice and for combating violence against women. I understand that the section president, Mr Filatov, has said that there will also be a report on this, because the various sections now provide subsidies to these NGOs, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence also provide support to certain NGOs. It makes sense for these subsidies to be clarified and coordinated together, but I hope that this work will not lead to a reduction in the support of these organisations as a whole, but will guarantee that these organisations will be able to function properly in this civil society. This is democracy, pluralist democracy, which is supported at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u38	At this point, I will give the Minister the floor, three minutes, and then we will continue the debate. - Minister, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u39	Mr President! Thank you for the very good questions. I will start with the chairman of the Legal Committee on the question of the savings of the JTS billion and say that, in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, this saving has been halted to the level of 2022, and it is already an achievement in itself. There have now been additions to this spending limits period to minimise the harmful effects of savings and no new austerity decisions have been taken during this government term. However, the overall situation is challenging, but I am glad that we have received additional appropriations and that the situation is better than it has been for many years. Then, Mr President, about this prison security. It is a very good thing that the representatives raise that question. We, myself and the Ministry, asked the Criminal Sanctions Agency to report on the security situation in prisons in October, and I have also sat with both the Director General and the Prison Officer with the Federation to review this situation. Now the situation is that there will be additional funding next year. We'll get a new backup unit in Turku. Some 500 million will be invested in it, and the Criminal Sanctions Agency will put the prisoners of organised crime in its own departments separately from the other prisoners.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u42	Madam President! The effectiveness of the whole chain of justice is very important. In other words, the fact that things go through the process in a rational way and that it has been adequately resourced, and this was something that Mr Laukkanen drew attention to in his speech. Its effectiveness is very important for general law-abiding and also for the rule of law to be implemented in Finland. However, we now have the general impression that crime has by no means decreased in our country, but the number of prosecutions brought has dramatically decreased, due to the restriction of the investigation. I would like to ask: what can be done to ensure that the villains are held responsible, and yet, in clear cases of shoplifting and other cases to which Mr Lundén has also referred, this is not the case? However, it is clear from the point of view of general law, justice and justice,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u43	Mr President! Minister, you said that the challenges have been identified, but perhaps I would ask: will future funds then be allocated correctly? According to Antti Santamäki, chairman of prison officials, the sickness absence of the Criminal Sanctions Agency is almost half as high as that of the state in general. Minister, we need extra funding for the field, that is, the guards. We've had enough lead.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u44	Madam President! The section of the Ministry of Justice is extremely important for the security of citizens. In my region, at that eastern border, the situation is such that people’s safety has been compromised. Of course, police action falls within the section of the Ministry of the Interior, but complaints have been made to the Ombudsman about this wolf situation, for example, when the situation is absolutely impossible. For example, a police officer has been accused of failing to comply with the law. The Alien Species Act and the Hunting Act have mentioned these male wolves, which are quite different from the real wolf. You, too. The Natural Resources Centre issued a permit for wolves to be in good condition and to be licensed by the owner of the hunting right. That police activity was the subject of a complaint by the relevant Juukalainen man to the Ombudsman when illegal activities were carried out in their hunting grounds that were not allowed to be carried out. He filed a complaint and has not yet received an answer. How does a citizen get legal protection in this country when the police do not act and there are no answers to complaints? Where ordinary people get legal protection,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u45	Mr President! In this Ministry of Justice budget, additional resources have now been added to the smooth running of the entire judicial process and will be needed. In its own alternative budget, the Coalition Party has also presented this same amount. Thank you for that, Minister Henriksson. The length of court proceedings is long in Finland, especially in civil matters, and their average duration is about nine months, and somewhere, for example in Helsinki, even longer. Finland has also received reprehensible judgments from the European Court of Human Rights on the length of proceedings. Now the corona situation has further congested the courts, and I myself am concerned about the length of time when sexual offences are being dealt with, and as another matter of custody of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u46	Madam President! From the point of view of citizens' access to justice, the thinning of the district court network is a very unfortunate weakening. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for adding to this year's supplementary budget, the amending budget, the seats for Pietarsaari, Iisalme and Varkaus as well, but, in the same context, there was no money available for this continuation of the offices of the district courts of Iisalme and Varkaus. I would have liked to ask the Minister whether it would be possible for this matter to be considered again, because the arguments that were put forward in the last period, when we worked together with the Minister on this matter, were such that cost savings would be sought here. Well, now Iisalmen and However, as far as theft is concerned, costs will increase if these district court offices are abolished. And I would have asked: would it be possible to reconsider this? The restoration of the seats was also a good thing,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u47	Madam President! I would like to thank Minister Henriksson for his strong efforts to strengthen the judiciary's capabilities and for the result. Of course, when we talk about the lengthening of our processes and the problems of our processes in general, it is always the first thing to raise the issue of increasing resources, but in recent days the media has also reported that the processes could also be developed, for example, by recording witnesses in the courts and courts of Appeal. I have noticed that the Ministry has supported this project in the media and also here just now, and I think it is very good. We could go even further, that is, that the Court of Appeal would, in principle, no longer take a stand on the matter of evidence, but rather
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u48	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control, Mr Kari, has already told us that we have completed the committee's report, the first report, yesterday and we have announced it, and we did not actually make a budget statement this year, but a few things that are relevant to the budget, or indeed two, will arise there. We stated in our report that the committee is pressing for the Government to ensure that the district court, which is here referred to as the District Court of Helsinki, has the appropriate premises for examining an application for authorisation for the use of intelligence methods. The second point is this question raised by Mr Kari, which is not necessarily a matter of resources, but partly a matter of resources. And I would like the Minister to answer these questions. The second issue is the reform of the conversion of the fine, which is also linked to these shoplifting, and here the report states that it is being reformed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u49	I believe that everyone who has asked for a reply to this debate has received it at least once. And at this point I will give the representatives of Mr Filatov and Mr Meri the speeches and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u51	Mr President! Yes, I have to answer now to the city centre and to Mr Ovaska that it does matter who is on the board. These are value choices, things are against each other. If I think of an increase of 5.9 million in legal protection for asylum seekers, and at the same time we heard here that district courts are blocked, there is 2.7 million. That's half as much. And you said that you adhere to the Constitution. These changes to the legal protection of asylum seekers are tightening up last season. They were all in the Constitutional Committee and were reviewed, unanimously adopted. Amongst other things were Mr Henriksson, your representative Mr Kurvinen. Are you saying that they do not follow the Constitution in their interpretations? Now, now, now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u52	And Mr. Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u53	Madam President! That is precisely why I asked you whether you had the idea of not dealing with these issues of immigrants or asylum seekers. We have a constitution that is going to be properly dealt with, and now you are presenting budget cuts to all of these, i.e. do you intend either to change the Constitution or to think that asylum seekers will then stay here and roll around in these circles, because you cannot return without a valid decision? And as far as the decisions taken in the past are concerned, from the last period you will remember well the proposals to weaken social security, which the then Chancellor of Justice flagrantly declared unconstitutional. So this is the question of how you read and interpret the Constitution... [Leena Meri opened her microphone and the speaker’s microphone closed]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u56	Then Minister Henrikson, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u58	Now we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u59	Mr President! In my debate, I said that the Committee on Intelligence finalised its first report on the report of the Intelligence Supervisor for 2019. The new intelligence laws came into force in early 2019, and when this report was as if it had been in operation, it was almost a year ago, and so we are a little late in this report. This has nothing to do with this budget reading other than on two points that we raise in our report. In actual fact, this report will be discussed later next year. However, I would like to raise the two points, as this dossier falls within the administrative sphere of the Ministry of Justice. The first resource issue relates to the activities of the District Court of Helsinki, where these trials are conducted on the use of intelligence methods. The Committee on Intelligence draws attention to this and urges the Government to ensure that the District Court has appropriate premises for processing requests for authorisation for the use of intelligence methods. The second resource issue relates to the deputies of the Intelligence Supervisor. At present there is no actual replacement who, in the absence of an authorised representative, would be entitled to exercise all the powers provided for by law. The committee believes that this deficiency must be remedied urgently and that the Government should take the necessary measures without delay, and I believe that when the Justice Minister, Mr Henriksson, has time to look into the committee's report, the Government will also intervene in this matter. In financial terms, it is not a big issue, but it is a very important issue from the point of view of intelligence control. Mr President! There has been a good debate here in the Chamber about the fact that our judicial system is a whole, and when resources are added to one point, care must be taken to ensure that there are enough of them at every point in our system so that bottlenecks do not arise elsewhere. Now, for example, resources have been added to the Prosecution Service by the Parliament, but the Coalition Party protested that even more resources had been added. Resources have also been increased for the reform of the enforcement of penalties and the conversion of the fine. This is an issue which has been slightly adjusted back and forth over the years and, as has been well demonstrated in this previous debate, for these criminals, who repeatedly commit shoplifting, for example, this is in practice the way in which it can be demonstrated by society, as it were, that it is not possible to do so when it is often the people who are unable and unable to pay the fines that come from that theft. Thus, after more than one case, fines can be converted into imprisonment. I personally think it is important that we have in society ways to tackle small crimes when they are repeated and to show that this is not an acceptable way. Of course, there may also be other problems behind frequent shoplifting and theft, and it is important that they can also, of course, be addressed. Mr President! There were some criticisms here about speeding up our judicial system, but I personally welcome the fact that when people are accused of a crime or are the subject of a crime, the trials are smooth and swift and can be dealt with quickly. For example, as Mr Heinonen has pointed out here, it is unreasonable from the point of view of crimes against children if the processes last too long. I would also like to thank the Minister for taking action now on violence against women or on crimes against them. It is a complex and difficult issue, but I believe that it is also important that we work vigorously and long-term on this issue so that this issue arises and is tackled with a long-term and effective response over the years of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u60	Mr President! No one should ever have to be afraid in their everyday lives. No one should have to face violence or the threat of violence and, in particular, the situation in which it is the closest one, his own spouse or family member, to be harmed in the worst possible way. It is extremely important that, as a society, we do not close our eyes to the painful fact that domestic and intimate violence is also present in Finland, and the corona crisis, at least in the light of statistics, has not helped or reduced this issue, quite the contrary. Today, too, there are homes where that fear is truly present. There are nights and weekends when you have to wonder if you're gonna make it. And there is the shame that envelops its poisonous robe and closes its mouths, so that there is no mention of the things that are happening inside the walls of the home. Relationship and domestic violence always leave a mark on the victim. Many organisations and actors are those who can lower the threshold for seeking justice and protection against the offender. That is why it is important that resources be secured for these bodies. These are those who tell us that violence is never the victim’s fault, that you have rights and that this does not have to continue forever. I have seen it very closely in my own work, what impact, for example, Victim Support Finland can have on the life of its client. At best, it protects a person’s life when the victim of crime dares to seek help. I would like to thank the government specifically for investing in additional resources, for example, in the activities of Victim Support Finland and other similar organisations. I would also like to thank you for strengthening the resources of the entire criminal processing chain. For that chain to work well, the resources must be sufficient and must be allocated correctly. I understand that these additions do not yet correct all the problems, but the direction is the right one. In addition, the situation of corona virus in particular has exacerbated court congestion. Of course, it must be mentioned that this congestion has existed before. Anyone who has been involved in the trial process will know and understand for sure how important it would be for those processes to be smooth and quickly over will be completed. In the future, attention must be paid to the adequacy of basic funding. Finally, I would like to emphasise what Mr Heinonen has just emphasised in this debate, among other things, and pointed out that, especially when it comes to crimes involving life, health or children, we should have a system in which these matters are handled smoothly and quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u61	Madam President! Thank you again, Minister, for the introduction. I'm gonna bring up a few things. Firstly, the concentration of evidence on district courts is very welcome and a good thing, and I believe that the whole parliamentary group in the Coalition Party will support it. In fact, last season the Committee on Legal Affairs was in Sweden looking at this matter, the Swedish model, and it seemed to work well there, although it must be said that there was a resistance to change in the courts of the Court of Appeal. I hope that here in Finland it would not be as much as it was there. But that is a good reform, because savings will be made, and this legal certainty will certainly be improved as well. I myself have been a witness dozens of times in both district and court courts, and I must say that my memory between the District Court and the Court of Appeal has by no means improved. The worst was when I was at the hearing of the Supreme Court and it took years from the trial of the District Court — certainly not the best memory at that point. That is a good thing, for which I thank you. Secondly, I would like to mention this chain or pipe thinking in the resources of the authorities. There was a parliamentary working party about five to six years ago. I drew it, and we gave a presentation with two main points: precisely that there would be a stable chain, and the other was that funding would be predictable and adequate, i.e. there would be no fixed-term district judges or similar. Well, it didn't happen, and it seems that it doesn't work out right under any government, unfortunately. Now we're heading in the right direction. As far as this chain thinking is concerned, it must always be remembered that the important activities of the security chain are: Emergency Response Centre, Emergency Services, Emergency Services, Emergency Services, and the police, as well as Border Guards and Customs. And then we begin this chain of justice, which includes the prosecutor, the judiciary, the prisons and also the Voudin Agency — they all need these resources equally. I hope one day we'll be able to get this chain working evenly. My third point is that I will continue with this prison security — thank you to the Minister for your answers. I am just afraid that they are not quite enough now, but it is a good step in the right direction. A much more comprehensive approach to the fight against this organised crime would be needed. Organized crime is the cancer of our society. It's not just vest gangs, it's from vest gangs to white collar crime, it's all in between. These criminal organisations and their members are trying to influence our social peace, they are trying to infiltrate decision-making and they are really trying to influence them in a way that allows them to operate freely, and that is now visible in prisons, at the end of the day. Guards are being threatened, they are being targeted, their leisure activities are being addressed. It's the view at the end, and I have to think about what's going on at the beginning. I bet it's just the same, though they're pretty much hidden. I think this is a very serious matter, and that is why for years I have been putting forward a so-called separate law on the fight against organised crime, and now the head of the krp was doing the same thing. What it wants to say at the outset, it wants to say that, for example, the exchange of information would be more flexible. Now, for example, two police officers are accused of illegally providing information to the City of Helsinki about a member of an organised criminal group — that cannot be the case. Oh, my God, this is such an incomprehensible situation. That is the problem with the Publicity Act, but it should be changed more broadly to this whole field of prevention. Of course, when coercive measures can now be used against jr groups on ‘doubt’ screens,so does the use of extrainformation,information source activities need to be high,because full-time legislation has opened up a person’s evidence,the use of extra information? In that case, technical data collection needs to be developed. Then let's move on from there. In the courts, of course, the evidence must all be the same, it is in accordance with the rule of law, but, as Mr Koskinen said, these criteria for hardening, ducking are still completely unclear and are not being used. Similarly, when you go to that side of the prison, these people who attack our society are outside the law, and yes, in prisons too, they must be guaranteed their own treatment, human treatment, but apart from others, and they cannot have exactly the same rights as an ordinary prisoner who is not so dangerous to society. Thank you for taking the floor. This was a bit of a bust, but it was pretty much kept up with the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u62	Mr President! In order to genuinely ensure and ensure the legal security of our citizens and their implementation, the entire criminal chain must be adequately resourced. This includes the police, the prosecutors, the courts and the Criminal Sanctions Agency. The stakes made in just one part of the chain are of no use if it only leads to a new bottleneck somewhere else in the chain. For a long time, I have been seriously concerned about the very low number of prosecutors, which has led to prosecutors being pushed to the limit of their endurance from year to year. That is why things have also come to the fore and we have to prioritise: what crimes are being investigated and prosecuted? Even in the debate, more Members raised this issue as a problem. In the alternative budget, we have proposed EUR 4.5 million in permanent additional appropriations for the prosecution institution in order to increase the number of prosecutors and reduce processing times. The proposal would increase the number of prosecutors from the current 7 prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants to 8. This is still a very modest figure when compared to the European average, 11 prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants, so I do not think it is unreasonable to draw attention to this, but it is essential for the legal protection of our citizens. Mr President! Earlier in this debate, I also raised the issue of the security situation in prisons, which has already spoken to us in this Chamber several times, and quite rightly so. This is extremely worrying but at the same time a good example of what will happen if we do not provide adequate resources. The Minister pointed out that dialogue has been conducted with the Criminal Sanctions Agency and that Rise is conducting an external evaluation of the security situation, which is good, and I hope that the government will pay more attention to this in its future decisions. These additional investments in security technology in next year's budget are indeed necessary, but they are not enough, and in the end it is much more than that. The Council of Europe's Committee for the Prevention of Torture (CPT) has drawn attention to the limited number of staff of the Criminal Sanctions Agency during its visit in September 2020 and has also drawn attention to the large number of untrained staff and the risks involved. An important factor in this deterioration in prison security has been the continuing increase in organised crime throughout the 21st century, which today is increasingly visible inside prisons, where there is constant power struggles, including around drug trafficking. In a case published last month in Yle, anonymous workers have admitted that the Criminal Sanctions Agency is quite toothless in the face of this organised crime, and only the second year since last year has the number of prisoners involved in criminal groups increased by about 50%. This is an alarming change. Workers are increasingly subjected to violence, intimidation, blackmail, and this is not only about staff but also about their families and their loved ones. So this is a very serious situation. All of this is happening in our prisons all the time, and we need to increase this funding so that, in a worse situation, we can at least maintain the status quo, but I hope that no one feels that the present situation I have described above is sufficient to any extent. We absolutely must do everything we can to improve the current state of affairs. I understand that it is not just money that solves the problems, but a lot of other measures and changes are needed to break this dangerous cycle, but it is totally unreasonable to insist that it can be achieved without adequate resources. That is why I really hope and demand that the government will continue to pay more attention to this issue and also to organised crime. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u63	Mr President! In the budget debate, the government decided to invest in strengthening the judicial system. Additional funding will be allocated, among other things, to smoother trials and services and to ensure the implementation of criminal responsibility. Public confidence in the functioning of the justice system is extremely important and these efforts can strengthen confidence. Coronavirus pandemic has also caused long-term congestion and the need for additional resources for the administration of the Ministry of Justice. Additional funding was already allocated to defusing congestion in the autumn amending budget, and this has also been foreseen in next year's budget. For example, the Government allocated additional funding to courts to facilitate court proceedings and to dismantle water and environmental congestion. There is a clear level increase in the prosecution system to ensure the enforcement of criminal liability. An additional EUR 2 million will be needed in Hämeenlinna’s new women’s prison in order to make the new prison fully available. Mr President! With reference to the opinion of the Legal Committee, the Committee on Finance considers it necessary, in its report on the budget, to clarify how much funding is needed for the various actors in the administrative sector in the Ministry of Justice in order to ensure adequate funding for justice and a sustainable functioning of the rule of law. In its opinion, the Committee on Legal Affairs specifically raised the financial situation of the Criminal Sanctions Agency, which we considered to be particularly worrying in the committee in terms of the security situation in prisons and staff. I believe that the additional resources that are now being allocated will help to improve the situation. The Committee on Legal Affairs has also stressed the importance of the functioning of the criminal chain. Ensuring the functioning of the criminal chain requires adequate and proportionate allocation of resources to all actors in the criminal chain, i.e. the police, prosecutors, courts, legal aid and the Criminal Sanctions Agency. This needs to be given particular attention in the future. Mr President! Grants granted by the Ministry of Justice provide annual support for the activities and development of crime prevention organisations. For example, this year the Federation of Mother and Child Homes and Shelters has been working on a comprehensive rehabilitation programme and young people convicted of crimes have been assisted in rehabilitation through the Crimean Support Foundation. Grants are also granted to peace-making organisations and the Human Rights Federation, for example. The Committee on Finance considers in its report that, in order to safeguard the operating conditions of the organisations, a report should be drawn up on the operating conditions of non-governmental organisations active in the field of peace work and foreign and security policy and a clear development programme should be drawn up on this basis. The committee also refers here to the Government Programme. The proposal is, in a word, to be supported. Unfortunately, even in Finland, human rights do not come true on their own; they must be defended every day. Mr President! Domestic violence has increased further during the corona epidemic. Finland is one of the most dangerous countries in Europe for women, and violence against our people is undoubtedly a disgrace. It is a major public health problem that affects everyone regardless of socio-economic status, culture, age and gender. In addition to the budget, the allocation reserve of EUR 40 million — the so-called Christmas gift from Parliament — is mainly directed towards support for organisations and their projects. Although the amounts are not very large, I believe that the funds are signals of what we want to do in addition to the budget. This year, Parliament’s Christmas gift money was directed at the fight against violence against women, the adequacy of shelters and their accessibility. Hopefully, there will be sufficient permanent budgetary funding for the fight against violence in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u64	Congressman Laukkanen is gone. — Ms Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u65	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Laukkanen had to leave, and when he is in that committee of law, his greetings in part in this speech also have to be said. In other words, he expressed particular concern about this underfunding, which is the case in the area of judicial administration. A number of colleagues here, including Mr Keto-Huovinen, have pointed out the resources of this Prosecutor's Office. It is indeed the case that, when we increase funding for a specific aspect of the criminal procedure, for example, the police budget, which is extremely good, is then reflected in the fact that there is also a need for appropriations elsewhere. I must say that Mr Laukkanen has had such an idea that there would be even a parliamentary working group to consider the way in which this chronic underfunding could be corrected. We welcome the fact that we have been able to increase the amount of funding, but yet, in the long run, with this underfunding in the back, it would be time for some sort of correction. — These are indeed the words of the honourable Member. Mr President! I would like to draw particular attention to the activities of the Criminal Sanctions Agency and, in particular, to the fact that, on that side too, these resources should be added to the life management of prisoners released from prison and, if you could say so, to the start of a new life. I believe that few euros in society would invest as well as when we made sure that the criminal spiral of the person released from prison would be broken and then he would not return there again. We have several NGOs in Finland who do a good job in improving the life management of those released from prison and also in getting started in their new life situation. I therefore hope that in this criminal work it will also be possible to allocate resources to precisely the good work that is being done in cooperation with the organization field. One such Finnish very, could it be said, traditional, for almost a hundred years now, has also produced excellent results from the Christian-based ViaDia organization that has worked in this sector. A lot of those who have been released from prison work with that organization, and they have been able to really change their life situation with the help of various employment budgets and others, so that perhaps the former problem has become a self-helper, and it has been a empowering experience for many people, which has otherwise led to life being organized. I therefore hope that this work under the Criminal Sanctions Agency in the Ministry could be given particular attention in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u66	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for being here and listening clearly to what the Members of Parliament are saying. In my opinion, this is entirely right from an administrative point of view. First of all, I would also like to thank Mr Tolva for his good words, because as a layman I see very much in the same way, and I would like to continue to address this organised crime. I am following it closely from the media, and if even a few things are true, organised crime has infiltrated the structures of society, business, business, so that it is no longer difficult to find out where it is and where it is not. That is why I personally believe that perhaps the most powerful way for Parliament and the government to tackle organised crime is to start pretty soon, as soon as possible, with separate legislation that goes through all these details, what this organised crime contains, and then with a raised definition of prosecution and punishment, which starts with a piece of it. I do not think it is in any way inappropriate for us in Parliament to bring it up, and quite on the basis of police statistics, that there has been an increase in ethnic crime. When we have people coming to Finland who have seen some phenomena that are different from the culture of Finnish society, it is not a small thing if this ethnic crime is then more and more entrenched in Finland, because it involves many of the things that make Finland attractive. International crime and cybercrime really do not look at any borders anymore. In that sense, this is one of the most serious questions that Parliament should address, and it does not matter whether this has been in the Government Programme or not. The second point, Mr President, Minister, is the recent events, which I will not go through with a stick, but I would like to draw attention to this good governance and Article 6 of the Administrative Law, which has recently been very much on the agenda. Yes, citizens must have the right to assume that when matters are dealt with by the ministry or authorities, they are dealt with by law, by good governance and by legal assumption. So I ask the Minister: is it certain that every ministry has sufficient legal expertise to ensure that good governance is applied in a balanced manner in relation to different issues, as intended? And will the Ministry of Justice then have sufficient resources to help ministries when problems arise either to interpret the Constitution or otherwise to assess whether all parties will be treated equally in administrative proceedings? I will take one example because I recall that we were in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at the same time as the minister dealing with North Lapland's fishing rights. Finland has concluded a state agreement with Norway, which I was worried about at the time that things are not going well. Of course, I was outnumbered at the time — and that's all right, that's the fact that democracy, through the majority, determines how to proceed — but there's been quite a bit of publicity about the fact that Norway has recounted Finland for breach of the treaty, for breach of the treaty. At the moment, we have a committee there that deals with these issues between Finland and Norway, but it has been decided through the administrative procedure that only minority representatives are there to take Finland's affairs forward. I think that the Minister of Justice should at least pay attention to this with his left eye that this administrative procedure is going to go right. In my opinion, it is right that the public should recline this to the Members of Parliament and even to the Chancellor of Justice, but in principle it should be the case that officials in the Ministry comply with Article 6 of the Administrative Code, even if the Minister or the Minister's assistants want a slightly different colour. These aren't little things. I have received dozens of communications that when business representatives work hard and employ and pay taxes without grumbling, they require that these matters be dealt with in accordance with Finnish law and in accordance with Article 6 of the Administrative Law. That is all I am opening up now, but when the Minister happened to be here, I saw this in Parliament's plenary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u67	Mr President! Good Minister! In this debate, it has been rightly and correctly emphasised the need to fund the entire criminal chain and to take account of the fact that the chain must really act from there to the conviction and ultimately also to the Criminal Sanctions Agency. It is therefore positive that the resources of the criminal chain, debt counselling and the Criminal Sanctions Agency are being improved somewhat, but there are still deficits and there is still a task to be done. On the opposition, and also on the part of the political parties, I would like to thank the opposition in particular for the well-pointed presentation of this international and organised crime and the problems and threats it poses, particularly in our prisons, but also in society as a whole. There is a real need to focus on this, and it should also be raised more strongly to the Government agenda, regardless of the way in which it has been dealt with in the Government Programme. Several derogations have now been provided for in the corona period in connection with enforcement, bankruptcy and even the interest and marketing of quick-vips. And there are various provisions in this whole of over-indebtedness, but the combined effects of which have never been assessed, of course, because of the tight timetable. The committee has therefore also rushed this legislation, which will bring improvements to the situation of those who are over-indebted and those who have difficulties in paying, to bring about permanent changes and relief for those who are over-indebted. The retention periods for default marking, the introduction of a positive credit repository and the possible increase in the enforcement protection component are important measures that will facilitate people's position, but also bring the financial institutions the needed improvements. Domestic violence is also an extremely important issue and, as has been said in this debate, Finland is a dangerous country, especially for women. In this context, it is commendable that the reporter of violence against women is finally being brought to Finland, but I would also like to raise the issue of the overall reform of the sexual offences law, which will be one of the most important legal projects of the coming year, in order to tighten the penalties for sexual offences across the board. And I believe that we must look not only at these maximum penalties, but also at the minima and, of course, the definitions of the law, but also at harmonising and bringing to this day. As far as municipal elections are concerned, it must be said that their safe implementation and the building up of people's confidence in secure elections are particularly important at this time, and I would like the Ministry to consider how this confidence can be built up. Of course, communication is a matter of its own, but the creation of additional polling stations would certainly also be one way of ensuring that people also vote in municipal elections. In this context, it might be appropriate to consider exceptions to the electoral law, for example, that there might not be as many of these people at the polling stations as there would be enough people to get enough and, in practice, organise this safe vote. The legal protection of asylum seekers has, in line with guesses and forecasts, given rise to debate in this Chamber and, to a certain extent, to confrontation, and that is quite superficial in my view. I understand that ideologically, when reading the budget, others want to remove all the lines that say ‘the asylum seeker’ or ‘immigrant’ or something similar,but regardless of the quality of the management of the matter, which group of people is a question,promoting the enforcement of all rights. It promotes a fair trial and smooth processes. When everyone gets legal aid and their affairs properly dealt with, our processes will go through faster. It is also in the interests of the Finnish person who has been subjected to the enforcement procedure. With these comments I thank the Minister for his good work and cooperation with the committee and wish him well next year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u68	Mr President! At first I want to correct, for when I heard the translation, I thought I was speaking a little vaguely. Of course, women's organisations have not for 100 years called for a national anti-violence reporter, but they have discussed and asked for action and stronger action to stop violence. I must have said it a little badly, so just to be clear, in history books, there won't be a mistake. I would like to thank the government again for this, and that is why this reporter's role is so important, because this is such a complex issue. In addition to the need, as mentioned here, for new legislation with sexual law, criminal law and so on, and resources for the judiciary, much more work is needed. That violence is, of course, very widespread. It causes enormous human suffering for many generations — that is usually something that traumatizes not only the target but also the child, both girls and boys. [ The speaker’s microphone closed]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u77	Mr. Speaker! Of course, Mr Biaudet would have liked to have listened longer, but it was nice to have the opportunity to make his own speech. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in my reply I have already drawn attention to the fact that I welcome the plans for hearing witnesses in the courts, recording hearings and hearings in court, except in exceptional cases. As Mr Tolvanen well described, it is unlikely that anyone’s memory will improve over the years. The question that could be the next step would be that the actual questions of evidence would be those which, apart from exceptional cases, would no longer be judged by the court of Appeal or the Supreme Court, but would focus only on legal issues. It is therefore a question of us being able to shorten trials and streamline our processes in a way other than by providing more resources, although this increase in resources is, of course, necessary at the moment. Well, when I was reading the Helsingin Sanomat this morning, I couldn't help but wonder what the time was being used for in those rights. Everyone can read today's Helsingin Sanomat on page A15, those who still read the print that the Administrative Court has considered what language is appropriate for officials and women of the Finnish Immigration Service. There are many expressions that have been discussed. Among other things, it has been considered whether the person who considered the Finnish-Swedish border was now entitled to use the sarcastic expression “the iron border”. This is something that has been very much discussed in the administrative court there. And then it has been discussed that, when such a family collector had already married several times and had always brought his new family to Finland, would he be allowed to use the expression “the serial family collector” in an internal discussion? And do you know that the administrative court concluded that it did, because this person had done so many times the same thing. Well, that's what they're thinking. That if there was any way to develop this process, there wouldn't have to be a lot of lily stalks right now. When we talk about the Ministry of Justice, we are talking about the rule of law, and I hope that the President will, as he has so far allowed, allow a somewhat broader debate to pass over these direct budgetary issues. In recent days, much has been said about the role of the Constitutional Committee, and that is one of the important cornerstones of our rule of law system. There have been some misunderstandings. It is good that unanimous solutions are being sought in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which of course strengthens the legitimacy of the committee, but it cannot be the case that unanimity should always be reached there. There is no one right solution in legal science, in legal interpretation. And trying to influence the decision of the Constitutional Committee, that is to say, the fact that a member of the Constitutional Committee is trying to make his own contribution to the work and influence the decisions of the committee is, of course, quite right and justified. Of course, I assume that this influence will take place with proper motives. I, myself, have been a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at the same time as Minister Henriksson, and the Minister must have been amazed and appalled at the fact that I am trying to influence the positions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs a great deal. I can assure you that it was not party politics, it was not day politics. It can be said that it was a sort of constitutional policy. I personally do not accept the overly strict line of interpretation adopted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on a number of issues. Motions are coming here like motions from a government like a government, and there are always constitutional irregularities in the Constitutional Committee. This is an overly strict interpretation which narrows down the margin of discretion that democracy has for a parliament elected by the people. We've been talking about this incident in Haavisto in the last few days. I will not interfere with this green communication operation, the spreading of alternative truths, but a few questions. When we have discussed who went through this email from Mr Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, in which he sought to gather the government front in this Haavisto case, and when there have been misunderstandings and disagreements, one question is: why does Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto not publish the list to whom it went? Then all misunderstandings and ambiguities would be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u78	Mr President! In my first speech, I went over more of the issues raised by the Legal Affairs Committee, and I have already received an answer from the Minister. I would like to comment on some of the issues raised here today, on which the Finnish Parliament has been criticised in particular. It has also emerged from the centre and from the RKP that these costs relating to immigration and asylum seekers are being contrasted and highlighted, and this is an important issue. For the sake of comparison, it is this figure that I raised, in which the Ministry thus proposes that EUR 5.9 million be invested in improving the legal protection of asylum seekers. This is the effort, if I have understood correctly, when, during the last period of the Sipilä Government, we tightened up immigration and immigration legislation, and we now want to restore these blackmails. These matters were then discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where I was also a member and Mr Zyskowicz was present at times and Minister Henriksson was present. These have gone there unanimously in accordance with the Constitution. It has been considered that they do not violate human rights treaties and secure a fair trial, so the talk that the Finns of Peru are presenting here something that violates the Constitution or the right to a fair trial is not true. Secondly, I would like to remind you that it is a good thing that the handling of foreign affairs is much faster than the handling of other cases in administrative courts. That is a good thing in itself, but it must be noted that there are longer processing times, that is to say, when the money is invested in this question, when the money is earmarked, and I do not think it is a good prioritization of the money. In their protest, the Finns have pointed out that we should address these root causes, and above all that the number of foreign matters entering administrative rights should be reduced, and that it should be easier for the Court of Justice to refuse to examine applications. Our committee also raised this somewhat similar issue, which Mrs Zyskowicz has pointed out, that could we not bring this video recording to administrative rights when, when we heard the courts, we were told that these oral hearings on asylum triple the amount of work required to deal with the case, triple the amount of time it would be possible to get out if, for example, this person's report were recorded in the Finnish Immigration Service when he first tells us that he has religious stability, someone else, and then, at the next time, sexual orientation has changed, and that is the reason why they can be rotated and rolled. There is, for example, one good proposal for improvement, and of course this is our overly lax immigration policy. Now, on many occasions, we are told not to talk about immigration, but when you have to talk about it when you spend billions of money on other things. Last yesterday, based on statistics, Suomen Peru published research data on how much social aid and others goes, so everyone understands that these are out of our legal security, for example, and, as I said in my first speech, the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice is just under one fiftieth of our entire budget, and yet it is one of our key elements, as Mr Henriksson said, it is the foot of democracy, and when that machinery chokes, we are choked, and I am really worried that even though the Committee on Legal Affairs has pointed out for years that continuing lack, it has still not been corrected. That is certainly not the fault of Minister Henriksson; you have done quite a good job in fact, but it has been a long-standing problem. And now that we are talking about these elections, I am actually taking advantage of this opportunity. I myself am in the Hyvinkää City Board, and we have dealt with these very pre-selection stations and wondered how we could get security intervals there and how many mobile polling stations we could get. Is there any extra money coming? After all, since the municipalities are generally responsible for these municipal elections, is there any help coming now that we can arrange even more carefully? Unfortunately, municipal voter turnout is generally very low and could now help in this situation. People can also be afraid to move, and that is what I am asking the Minister. And it is quite necessary to say about that role of the Constitutional Committee when Mrs Zyskowicz raised it that I too should not be too afraid of unanimity or diversity, because even the Supreme Court will vote, they will only have different weight as a preliminary ruling. There'd be a lot more, but now we're running out of time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u79	It's over, thank you, time. Minister Henriksson, two more minutes, and then the whole section ends at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u80	Mr President! A few comments. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives for their excellent contributions. I have listened carefully to you, and this organised crime is something that we really must take very seriously. On that point too, although it is on the table of Minister Ohio, there is now a separate unit for trafficking in human beings in this good country, which means that the police will have such a unit, and there will now also be a proper resource put into it. All in all, however, this organised crime is something to study and we must seriously consider what else we can do in this regard. There have been many speeches on the number of prison staff and also on this whole criminal chain of resources. I would like to say that this government has now taken the path which is unique in comparison with the previous ones, that when the police receive additional funds, the budget will then be increased, for example, for Riselle, prosecutors and courts, and in this respect, there will also be EUR 3.2 million in prison care next year to increase the number of prison staff. 1.6 million are the result of this dismantling of corona congestion and 1.6 million are the result of this increase in the number of police officers. So this is what has been introduced. Then, with regard to the situation of asylum seekers and the fact that the government is about to submit this proposal on legal aid, I will continue to insist that it is wiser to do these things right from the start than it is, then, too much time for these processes. Then, finally, I'm going to raise the crime victim's position. The government is now working hard to improve the status of the victim of crime. We are also looking at restraining orders, and I hope that next year I will also be able to bring a proposal to this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u81	Presentation of Section 32 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. The presentation will be carried out by Mr Pirttäähti on behalf of the Section of the Finance Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u82	Mr President! I am indeed presenting this on behalf of our excellent President of the Section for Employment and the Economy, Mr Savio, in Section 32, which is the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. In recovering from the interest crisis, more diverse export activities and success of Finnish companies in international networks are very important. Finland needs more innovative companies seeking international growth as well as companies investing abroad in Finland. The operational expenditure of the Employment and Economic Development Offices is set at EUR 209.4 million. The operating expenditure of the Employment and Economic Development Offices (TE Offices) is presented as an increase of EUR 1.1 million in the municipal employment experiment. The Committee welcomes the fact that the experiment will bring together the resources, skills and services of the state and municipalities. The committee sees many possible positive effects and synergies in the experiment. Improving the effectiveness of employment services is very important because it is reflected positively in the economy and employment through growth in employment. The Committee stresses the need to ensure quality services for jobseekers despite this administrative change. The committee also stresses that a solution must also be found to the problem of confrontation. An additional allocation of EUR 101.5 million is proposed for the operating expenditure of the Innovation Finance Agency Business Finland, with an increase of EUR 2 million to strengthen the BF's external network. Finland's tourism exports are among the sectors most affected by the corona pandemic, and the committee therefore supports the proposal for additional funding to support the efforts of tourism companies. The Committee stresses the importance of taking measures to safeguard Finland's competitiveness in the tourism market during the corona crisis and as it lapses. State aid for operators promoting sustainable growth policy: the committee adds EUR 1 million to Viexpo's export projects, EUR 150,000 to the Finnish-Swedish Chamber of Commerce, EUR 150,000 to the pilot project of the Young Innovation Path in Northern Central Finland, EUR 100000 to Pirkanmaa's corporate blocks for the development of the employment and business of sole entrepreneurs and EUR 100000 to promote entrepreneurship, economy and working life skills for young people. Renewal and low-carbonity: Carbon neutrality can be an important part of Finland's growth policy, which also contributes to recovery from the corona crisis and supports the achievement of the employment objectives. A mandate of EUR 336 million is proposed for Business Finland to support research, development and innovation activities. The committee supports the allocation of R & D funding, in particular for projects to speed up the renewal of industrial structures. State funding and its R & D programmes serve as levers to promote the involvement of private money. Cooperation between companies, universities and research institutions is very important here. An amount of EUR 101,3 million and a mandate of EUR 160 million is proposed for the energy support item. The Committee welcomes the fact that energy aid is directed towards investments in new technologies and energy efficiency investments which help to start up investments in companies of all sizes. The Committee also welcomes the fact that energy aid contributes to the commercialisation of Finnish energy technology and is directed towards large demonstration plants in Finland. The committee is in favour of bringing forward aid for coal-replacement investments by increasing the power to grant energy aid by EUR 30 million in 2021. Employment and entrepreneurship: During the year 20 a number of measures have been decided to deal with the corona virus situation, both to control the spread of the virus and to support citizens and businesses. The Committee stresses that, in addition to the employment rate, attention must be paid to productivity developments, the ability of businesses to renew themselves and to strengthening the conditions for economic growth. There is also concern about improving the sustainability of public finances. 121 million is proposed for the compensation of indirect emissions trading costs. After all, the current emissions trading compensation will be abolished in 22 years and will be replaced by support for the electrification of energy-intensive companies. The committee stresses that the reform must ensure equal international competition for Finnish companies and comply with the EU guidelines on state aid. The amount of the public employment and business services item is set at EUR 276,3 million. This appropriation is intended to cover, inter alia, the promotion of employment on long-term family leave, the recruitment of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) as well as wage support. The Committee supports the government's measures to strengthen employment in order to stabilise the economic downturn caused by the corona crisis. Mr President! Finally, EUR 8.9 million is proposed for integration and international knowledge. The Committee welcomes the emphasis on access to skilled labour and labour-based immigration. The committee considers that improving integration and raising the employment rate of foreign nationals already present in the country are important ways of increasing the workforce.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u83	Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Finance and its Section for Employment and the Economy for their good and constructive preparation of the budget. Although this year has shaken Finland and the world, the government continues to pursue a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable society. This crisis has hit all of us, and the second wave of the epidemic is on its way, but there is light in sight. In international comparison, we have managed to overcome the crisis quite well. Of course, as a result of this corona pandemic, our economy has fallen and this has an impact on the employment rate: the employment rate is expected to fall to 71% in 2021. The importance of employment measures to strengthen the economy is therefore even more important. In its report, the Committee on Finance has raised important findings on improving employment. The Committee considers it important not to give up the pursuit of employment as a result of the corona crisis. We have therefore adhered to the employment objective. At the same time, it must be recognised that it is more difficult than before to achieve the target as a result of the interest rate. The Committee also considers it necessary for the government to work decisively to find effective employment instruments and to launch structural reforms. I could not agree more on this. This is the determined work that we have been doing, and that work will continue. In the context of the budget debate, the government directed significant employment-related measures. The government decided on a new employment target. We will take decisions on 80,000 additional employees during this parliamentary term. In order to achieve this goal, we took a number of important decisions earlier in the autumn, and the preparation of new measures has progressed so that we decide on them at the government's mid-term debate next spring. However, the employment objective will not be resolved by the measures taken by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy alone. The achievement of this objective now requires all cooperation and also very broad measures from a wide range of administrative sectors. By the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, we have now taken forward large entities. Finland is now taking a stronger Nordic approach to strengthening employment, because the fact is that we are lagging behind the other Nordic countries in terms of both the quality and quantity of employment services and the employment of part-time workers. We are now setting up employment services at once. As I have said before, we have been talking for too long about trick job creation and faceless services, while at the same time the example of the Nordic countries shows otherwise. Indeed, the close and individual service structure strengthens employment, which has also been confirmed by research data from the experience of other countries. Experiments with municipalities in employment services will start next year. As the committee also states in its report, improving the effectiveness of employment services and seamless coordination of resources is important. Preparations for the Nordic employment service model decided on in the budget debate have also begun. Since 2022, the Government has decided to allocate an additional EUR 70 million per year to TE Offices. With this additional funding, more than 1000 new employees will be employed to help people in employment — not faceless services, but individual support. Confidence in the unemployed person is reflected in the fact that in future the job seeker will also choose for himself which job opportunities he or she is looking for. Job search obligations take into account the applicant’s ability to work, competence and labour market situation. At the same time, we also moderate the whole of the carnage system: we are now giving up overlong and overexcessive cartels. For too long, Finland has neglected the desires and opportunities of people capable of part-time work to participate in the building of society. After all, each of us has skills that can also be used in the labour market. That is why we are now building the Finnish model of employment in the intermediate labour market. The aim is to start operations by 2022 at the latest. The position of the part-time workers will also be improved as a result of changes to the pay subsidy. By the end of the year, we will also, as a government, decide on reforms related to the whole of the elderly. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u84	Mr President! I would also like, on my own behalf, to thank the Section for Employment and the Economy for their excellent preparation during such an exceptional period. For the past few years, we have enjoyed quite good years of economic growth. In the spring, however, everything changed, and in that vortex of change we are still in. As a nation, we have survived in the midst of a pandemic relatively well, but our economy has been dented, and although recent weather observations do not support this, the winter of the economy will be cold. According to the latest Ministry of Finance forecast, our GDP will fall by 4.5 per cent this year. Next year, this is expected to close by 2.6%. The journey to the pre-crisis situation is therefore still to be broken. We have supported and will support Finnish industry in this situation by various means. A number of decisions have been taken and new measures are in the pipeline. The latest second round of company cost support, which will be open next week. In its report, the Committee on Finance has highlighted a number of important findings in relation to economic development. The Committee draws attention to competitiveness. It is extremely important that we get involved in the growth stream when the crisis is over and international demand begins to rise. In the midst of the crisis, companies have also had the opportunity to renew, develop and assess opportunities for growth in international markets. This year, Business Finland and Ely Centres have allocated more than EUR 1 billion to companies for various development projects. When the crisis has brought new businesses into business Finland's sphere of activity, it also opens up the possibility of supporting and helping new companies to renew and pursue a growth path. As the committee points out, our companies' export activities must be more diverse. After the crisis, when the market is partly redistributed, we need to be awake. A growing number of Finnish companies must be able to export successfully. It is our job to create conditions for this. These are the conditions we create in the 21st budget, among other things, by increasing the resources for internationalisation. An important part of the exit from the crisis is the EU recovery package. As we are well aware, central government debt has increased in the midst of the crisis at a rate that no one could foresee a year ago. This has been necessary, but it is equally necessary to return to compliance with the central government spending limits rule in 21 C.E. Recovery, sustainable growth and structural reforms must be achieved through the opportunities offered by the EU Recovery Package. This will lead to a significant increase in funding for the coming years. This will be an effective focus on investment and on speeding up reforms and renewal. As I have said before, tin halls or similar are not what Finland’s sustainable growth programme aims to achieve. Traditional infrastructure investments are now out of the question, but we are investing in research and innovation, achieving climate objectives, international competitiveness, digital skills and developing public services to support growth. These investments must be mobilised quickly. The 21st budget is very supportive of improving and modernising the internationalisation capacity. Business Finland's loans and grants amount to nearly half a billion euros. On top of this, R & D funding will be increased in the spring of 21 EU recovery packages, so the whole is well-scaled. VTT’s funding will increase to more than EUR 109 million, both to leverage EU funding and to take action towards carbon neutrality. In turn, we will accelerate internationalisation with additional funding of EUR 20 million under the Government Programme. The funding of the growth programme for internationalisation will be targeted at strengthening the international network of Business Finland, continuing the growth programme for SMEs, improving the process of residence permits and implementing the international recruitment model. The EU's objective is to be carbon neutral 2050. The reforms required to achieve this aim offer just those new business opportunities that I have just mentioned. In that race we must be involved, and we have a huge amount of knowledge and potential in this sector. In the 21st budget, we are speeding up the achievement of carbon neutrality by, among other things, EUR 160 million for energy support, which is EUR 50 million more than this year. [The President knocks ] Finally, I would like to thank the committee for the small but substantial additions it has made to the draft budget in relation to export promotion, innovation for young people and business development.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u85	Thank you, Minister Lintilä. — Ladies and gentlemen, we have not just said that a total of 2 hours will be reserved for the general debate in this section at this stage. Now, who has a desire to debat it opens up the possibility of standing up and pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u86	Mr President! It is likely that this section will further steer and accelerate labour market trends in relation to what we expected at the last budget reading. We are not going to go back to the old part when this is over. Remote work will certainly change, production chains will certainly change, the position of fragment labour has changed. This change should now be closely monitored, and efforts should also be made to direct and influence it as much as possible, because in times of crisis, typically when things get out of hand, it is customary to split up rather than take development in a more sustainable direction. We now need a more environmentally, socially and economically sustainable labour market, and this can be seen as an opportunity to build one. It can be seen as an opportunity to increase the resilience that will be needed in similar situations in the future. But it takes a pretty close eye for a game.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u87	Mr President! Indeed, this year we have seen very challenging times in business operations. The Korona virus has hit many sides but especially companies in many ways, and in the event and restaurant industries, for example, order books, sales have collapsed. But then again this has been a good time, like for retail and online stores and packaging products, for example, a time of success. Two cost support packages have been prepared in the course of this year and it is now to be expected that the third package will be coming. Here's what I'd like to ask you. How is it being prepared? Are there any changes to this other package coming? It has now moved in a more flexible direction, which is, of course, a good thing, so that different forms of business and income models are better taken into account. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u88	Mr President! On the subject of the TEM section, I personally welcome two major structural decisions, which are the Nordic model of employment services and the extension of compulsory education. Of course, the impact of the latter reform on employment can be seen as a delay, and we all understand that. The municipal trials will also start next year, and they will also require monitoring and action from us decision-makers to be implemented in the most comprehensive and high-quality way possible. When we dealt with this in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, this became very clear, so that this monitoring and monitoring should be carried out forcefully from the beginning of the year. Investments in the employment of young people, i.e. reform of apprenticeship training, low-threshold services related to mental well-being and start-ups are also important value choices for the government in this budget next year. When, in this further debate, these employment measures are probably needed from the government, even in the debate, I would like to remind you that this reparation of education is:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u89	Mr President! The real employment measures of the government are rather modest, and not much has been said about them. There has been talk of 80,000 additional workers in the budget debate, but not of jobs. However, it is now the government's intention to abolish the pension line, i.e. the additional days of unemployment security. The pension pipeline has been an honorable way for the long-term unemployed to retire respectfully if no jobs have been found. Everyone in the pension line is forced to look for those jobs and work with the TE Office to look for them. So I ask Minister Hatainen: will the government decide before Christmas that the unemployment pipeline will be abolished, or will it decide this season that the unemployment pipeline will be abolished? If so, how will the employment of older people really be improved, while the government's actions take Finnish jobs to our rival countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u90	Mr President! During the autumn, much has been said in this Chamber about peat as part of energy policy. This is important because peat is more than heating fuel. Changes in peat use can affect not only heat energy production but also animal welfare and the production of high-quality Finnish food. Well, now it says in the papers of many politicians and parties, I think even government papers say that ‘significant use of energy peat would have ended in the2030s’. However, it is known that according to the industry's own announcement, peat's energy use will be only one third of the current consumption in 2025. This rapid uncontrollable shutdown of energy is now challenging these other uses of peat: heating plants in Finnish farms, mixed combustion boilers and security of supply. Minister, should we not now begin to define a strategic minimum level of use for energy peat?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u91	Mr President! This year many Finns have lost their jobs and many of those who were unemployed before the corona crisis as job seekers have become even more difficult. Now, if ever, we need these impressive employment measures and the understanding that the unemployed are not a united group. We must therefore succeed in reforming these working life services so that they meet everyone as an individual and see the situation as a complete one. One way to respond to this is by combining the municipal and state resources and expertise. At the same time, however, care should be taken to ensure that... [ The microphone is closing]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u94	Mr President! The government has already taken employment measures, such as adult education... [ The speaker’s microphone is switched off]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u97	Mr President! The government has taken a considerable amount of debt, and someone must also think about getting out of this debt trap. And now, if you think of the government's current labour policy measures, okay, there are some very good measures — part-time and employment services have been invested, even more so — but I do not see that anything that is going to happen there will happen, and the more reason for looking at the industry and innovation side. And now, if you think about what could be coming out of there, perhaps quite a lot with technological progress. There are different medical innovations, these different gene scissors, financial fintech reforms. I know that the Minister Lintilä is also interested in these quantum computers, among other things, which turned out to be a breakthrough of this kind in recent times. Of course, researchers, businesses, universities do the actual work. But I would like to ask: how, in actuality, have you left since these breakthrough technologies,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u98	Mr President! I will pick up where Mr Sankelo left off in his good speech. Indeed, from the point of view of domestic energy production, the situation is really going in a terrible direction. I got a call this morning from that Lake Tohma. There a person lives near the Niirala border crossing point, and Russian chips are driven to Finland in huge quantities. Although it's denied by many that it's true, but when a guy keeps accounts, how many trucks go out there, there's a lot of them. Domestic production of energy wood is virtually over. No one collects the energy base when the price at which the Russian sells the chip to Finland is not even able to cover the harvesting costs. The fact that peat is now being driven down in this country is the most absurd energy policy act in Finland. We have created a situation where fibrewood and logs are driven to power plants, which is an explicit ban in the Government Programme. And then another thing: the other uses of peat are running out because the peat cannot be raised so that a particular variety is taken. What comes out of that swamp is what comes out of it. Mr Lintilä, Minister
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u99	Mr President! First of all, a brief question for Minister Lintilä: what do you think of the introduction of the carry back system, for example, to benefit the field of events? Mr President! Then on to employment issues. My question is for Minister Hatainen: I am particularly concerned about the unemployment rate and employment rate of older job seekers, which is clearly worse than in other Nordic countries. What do you think is the current situation regarding the retirement of the pension line? I would also draw attention to the fact that two weeks ago the Finnish Economist Federation carried out a study, a rather extensive study, on what employers, for example, consider to be an important tool, perhaps the most important one, in this management of the employment of older people, where the most important thing was compensation for labour side costs, which is used in staggered Sweden, among others. Have you studied this, and would it be one possibility in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u100	Värderade Talman! Jag vill passa på att tacka båda ministrarna för wastebra arbete under ett svårt år.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u101	Mr President! Indeed, in that Section for Employment and the Economy, we paid quite a lot of attention to this experiment in the municipality of employment, and here Mrs Filatov very well raised the concerns that we shared there, that is, whether we in the municipalities now have enough resources and a skilled workforce to catch up on a variety of different types of unemployed people. There are those who are capable of working part-time, long-term unemployed, who have an immigrant background who certainly need a little customised action, and then, on the other hand, when it is feared that these layoffs will become redundancies, all of this could suddenly fall on the municipalities. Secondly, start-ups: has the Ministry considered the inclusion of the Estonian business account in this situation? It would be important for these self-employed to be easily and with little bureaucracy caught up in business. The third question relates to seasonal workers. Now would be the time to be prepared again for the need for seasonal workers next summer. There's a big concern on the farms that there won't be a problem like the one we did last time. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u102	Mr President! I myself thank the government. It has been an exceptional year, and all the work that can be done to safeguard existing jobs has been extremely important. I would also like to thank you for this objective-oriented work to get these new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u105	Mr President! I do not agree with the government's view that employment will be increased in the best way by expanding the public sector, by taking measures, above all social policy, not employment policy, but we agree that it is necessary to increase employment by extending the working life both at the beginning and at the end of the working life, and now the government is taking measures to improve the employment of people over 55. There are still a lot of problems, but we'll wait and see what you can do. But then the beginning. Of course, you say that the extension of compulsory education is going to interfere with this too, but I personally find this difficult to believe. Even today, there are many young people who are not able to work in vocational schools, because companies say, among other things, that they do not have the skills to hire them. On the other hand, mental health problems discipline the whole population, and action is clearly needed to do this. At some point, though, we might also begin to wonder where these mental problems come from, why they are a people’s disease. But that's what I want to ask you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u106	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Personally, I would like to thank the government for your efforts to channel resources to employment services. I believe that this is an effective way of promoting people's access to the labour market. But when Mr Nurminen spoke here about the pension pipeline, when he listened to the government parties' speeches about the alternative budget for the Coalition Party, there was a message in those speeches that by changing the unemployment benefit system or social security in general, and thus influencing the incentives to work, it would not be possible to promote employment. Now I have to ask the government why you are removing this pension line if you do not believe that this is the way to promote employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u107	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz intervened in a very important debate. How we can genuinely improve employment by reducing social security or by making various cuts to the position of people is a genuine issue. We do not believe that this is any of the best employment policy possible. Instead, we need to think about where we can get future export income and where we can get jobs for the export sector of the future. I'd like to ask Minister Lintilä about this... [ The speaker’s microphone closes]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u110	Mr President! TE service customers and experts are now moving from the state to municipal trials, but do you, Minister Paatero, know what happens and has already happened in the state administration? Are there grass-roots processes being developed with customer-driven experts, are they hiring professionals for needs, or are there more dims being built, more managers being hired, and unproductive work being done? If you had power now, or now you have power, you will certainly control what is happening in that state government. Furthermore, the question of the Ura system. Many public sector information systems are characterised by their inaction, but this career is particularly inefficient. You're gonna fix Ura up now, aren't you?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u111	Minister Paatero is not here right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u112	Mr President! The availability of foreign labour in agriculture will be crucial again next spring and summer. Last spring this issue did not go particularly well, although the situation was difficult and partly independent of us, also because there were temporary problems from abroad. But now is a better chance to plan. It seems that the general view, at least in rural areas, is that the Finnish Immigration Service, Migri, has some rigidity. Maybe we could cheer it up a little bit. And the other thing is that there have been foreign workers coming to Finland year after year. Could it not be possible to make their authorisation procedures more flexible? I'm going to ask Minister Haatainen about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u113	Mr President! Representative Kauma raised a good question. When we talk about this pipeline, it has to be said here too that, according to their own surveys and surveys, more than 50% of the respondents were in favour of the unemployment pipeline and maintaining it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u116	Irade the Talman! Kommunförsök, nordiska Modellen, och vi har gjort en stimulering av economist under det auråret som är sällan skådad. Det aur har räddat många arbetsplatser, och vi diskuterar valkigt mycket är vi ska få mer folk i arbete och så vidare.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u117	Mr President! It is very important that the government prepares a strategy for renewables in addition to the recovery plan by the 21st framework debate. For example, investment aid of EUR 60 million will be granted for investments in energy to replace coal. This significantly supports Finland's objective of carbon neutrality, as nearly 40 per cent of the emissions from district heat production come from coal and 12 per cent from greenhouse gas emissions from the whole energy sector in Finland. The first decisions on investment aid were recently taken and nearly EUR 8 million were granted to four projects. These supported projects are part of wider plans, including in Vaasa, to move away from coal with an accelerated timetable. Mr President! Now is not the time to put emissions targets on the shelf, but to support companies in a new climate-friendly growth policy, in developing technologies and, above all, in bringing them to the world market.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u118	Mr President! Indeed, employment measures are little lacking in government objectives. The goal is growing all the time, but at the same time, every time it is reported, it also disappears into some kind of horizon. However, employment in our countries is becoming increasingly expensive, competitiveness is becoming less competitive, while the opportunities for companies to employ are constantly diminishing, and investing in employment services does not necessarily automatically bring any added value in the sense that there must be jobs. If we apply for one job there for the services of the TE Office and now ten people apply for one job, but in the future one hundred customers of the TE Office apply for the same job,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u119	Mr President! The situation of Finnish consumers and entrepreneurs can be helped in the midst of this economic crisis, not only through the state budget. As we know, electricity transmission prices have risen disproportionately and in part unwarrantedly. The rate of return must be reduced and must be based on the right capital structures and on capital committed to the electricity network, not on fiction. The Alliance's transfer price cutter, which would reduce profits by up to half a billion euros and supported by expert professors, has now been in the hands of the government for six months. During this time, the government has postponed its own motion three times. Minister Lintilä, you last promised here in October that there would be a proposal for Parliament at the beginning of November. Every postponed day means that not only electricity will be transferred online but also euros from consumers' wallets to network companies. When will you bring the proposal to Parliament, and if you are not going to bring it, will the government parties support the bill of the Coalition Party and the citizens' initiative?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u120	Mr President! It is good that the government has taken a very strong position on biogas as a renewable form of energy and that this article has been allocated a modest budget for the construction and development of infrastructure, but it has nevertheless been made possible to develop this gas distribution network infrastructure further. The Government Programme includes a biogas programme to develop Finland’s vitality and meet climate targets in 2022. I would like to ask the Minister: at what stage is this production of the biogas programme, and are there any such foods and measures that can genuinely mobilise this biogas in this country of Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u121	Let us take Mr Mäkinen and then give ministers the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u122	Thank you, Mr President. The new growth potential of exports is indeed linked to responsible and sustainable business and the opportunities offered by digital transformation. We know that global demand for these is really strong, and it is now extremely important that Finland is really in the hit after the corona and we are in this race then. The export and international growth agenda must now be pushed forward. Business Finland has a very important role to play here as a whole, its funding is huge and, as has already been pointed out before, it is very important that the effectiveness and effectiveness of this activity are also assessed from time to time. Business Finland was born when Finpro and Tekes were merged. At this stage, I would like to ask Minister Lintilä whether you are satisfied with this reform and how to respond to the problems that exist now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u123	Let's start with Secretary Haatainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u124	Mr President! You know, there were some real questions and some good observations. First of all, the question was raised here about this improvement in the employment of older people and this negotiating situation in the government. This solution is in the negotiations and will be done by the end of this year. Of course, we are looking for a solution that can strengthen employment and the position of older people in the labour market and strengthen employment. After the failed negotiations between these social partners, this whole is now in the hands of the government and will be resolved. Then there was a lot of talk about the importance of education. That is exactly how the government invests a lot in education, in different ways. Representative Filatov raised the issue of adult education, continuous learning. The parliamentary work on lifelong learning has been completed and is about to take part in a consultation and contains important proposals. It is also very important for this employment rate and for the survival of work, for the preservation of jobs. The question was then asked what will this strengthening of TE services help in a situation where unemployment is growing. I understand this pain, I also bear the pain of creating new jobs and activities. That is what the government is now focusing on, as a result of this interest rate, on responding to the difficulties of companies by supporting them to overcome this crisis, and that is certainly what Minister Lintilä is responsible for. And then we will also look for the road map out of this that can create new, new work and activity. That's how they get jobs. Employment policy aims to ensure that skilled workers are available to those companies that need jobs — we currently have companies that need experts — and that is now being answered by various means. Then, here, there was concern about the municipal trials. It is very closely monitored, and it is very important now that the services of these groups, which are moving there, are being met, and we in the Ministry have good cooperation with the municipalities. Then representatives of Essayah and Kiviranta took care of seasonal workers. This is becoming a government proposal to Parliament tomorrow, and it will then make this system more flexible so that switching from one employer to another becomes easier. In other words, let us go back to the old model that, during the last term of government, was changed precisely in connection with the implementation of this directive on seasonal work, to such a less functioning, more rigid system, that is, to return to a better system. Representative Ranne asked about putting the Ura system in order and putting information services in order. This is what they're investing in right now. It's a big deal so we can get it now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u125	Minister Lintilä, including three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u126	Mr President! Come on, come on, First of all, Mr Kosonen — cost support for three: Yeah, it's already in preparation, but it's open, for example, what's going to be the reference period. So we'll have to think about it again, but it's already in preparation. The sole entrepreneur's support is in preparation, which means it's on its way. For Sankelo — peat: A very difficult question. I fully agree that we need it for alloy combustion, we need it as a bedding, we need it for growth and then also as a security of supply. In other words, we will continue to have peat, but what is the way in which we can keep it at national level at the level that makes economic sense will certainly be the issue. Representative for the park — the importance of innovation: A very important question, and one to which I have drawn my attention and on which I am very concerned, is that we are becoming historically few patents at the moment. When everyone knows that today's patent will account in 20 years' time, this situation will be very difficult in 20 years' time, and that is why I would very much like to see more there. What has now been done to add these new ones? You yourself mentioned this quantum computer, it is very interesting, it was of great interest to the world. And now, lastly, I have launched Artificial Intelligence 4.0, i.e., let's say the company's ability to use artificial intelligence for its benefit will be raised through this. Mr Kauma asked about the carry back system specifically in the event sector. I wouldn't go too far into our tax system. We have a relatively good tax system. Of course, there is a certain degree of retroactivity in the carry back if you think that this year's losses can be deducted from previous profits. And I'm not at all sure that there are so many of those victories on the side of events. Now we have direct support for the event in preparation, and that will be done. Representative Strand from the Recovery Fund: Yes, the most important thing is to increase competitiveness. During this time, we must increase our competitiveness. That's what the rest of our control countries do. Such partnership experiments, locomotive companies, are extremely important. As a Vaseman, Mr Strand knows very well what the locomotive companies have done there. Mäkynen asked about BF. True, it has worked for three years, and that is why I have now launched an external evaluation of the BF, i.e. an external evaluator who will evaluate its operation. To Myllykoski for hiring the first guest: We have a recruitment experiment, it's being promoted. It is also part of the entrepreneurship strategy. Vestman on electricity transmission, that when comes: It comes in January. It is now ready and will be given to Parliament in January. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u127	Thank you, ministers, and for a moment we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u128	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for that answer to the peat. I thought it was good. All you have to do is assess what Finland really needs. That's what I'm going to take up with Mr. Hoskonen's good peat speech, that when I suddenly counted myself in my head, how many trucks are really needed to carry chips, because there is air, so theoretically all coal and peat used in Finland would require 40 million cubic metres of chips, and that would mean 300,000 pickets.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u129	Mr President! Indeed, the need for peat entrepreneurs is real. How will they be compensated for the economic disaster caused by the government? Such an uncontrolled one-off is totally unsustainable. It is not advisable for the peat entrepreneur to increase the growth and drying peat alone if the peat used for energy is not found in the market. It has been said that more than 80% of greenhouse entrepreneurs have reported that production will stop if there is no or too expensive peat. Minister Lintilä, what do you say to these people? We must also remember that the entire government programme relies on employment, but now these jobs on the private side just seem to be disappearing, and these jobs are also the best preventive action for mental problems, as has been mentioned here today. Minister Haatainen mentioned that continuing learning. Of course, it has beautiful upper-level words, but there is still a long way to go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u130	Mr President! I would like to raise an important issue in this debate that is closely linked to growth and employment, as well as security of supply and security for Finns, namely the promotion of domestic ownership. The aim of the Centre Party is that companies can grow and employ more and more throughout Finland. The Finnish owner is often very long-term and is likely to continue investing in Finland, which in turn will generate new jobs, growth and prosperity and well-being throughout the country. And as this year has shown, this theme also has a direct link to security of supply and safety. All in all, that is a very important question. Well, we are now preparing a programme for domestic ownership, and we are waiting for ambitious proposals there, and my question is: what is the government doing to promote domestic ownership?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u131	President! There seems to be little criticism of these business support billions here. But there would be a cause. The criticism that is being expressed is generally directed at which sectors receive aid or which size of companies receive aid. These are justifiable criticisms in themselves, but I think it would be more essential to consider why these aids for businesses have not actually been targeted at employment, even though they are being talked about. After all, there is no obligation on companies to employ in exchange for these subsidies. Only in the case of restaurant support has such a small element been present. On the contrary, the state has facilitated lay-offs, for example, over the past year. In my eyes, this kind of support for businesses seems rather inefficient in terms of job conservation and employment rates. There's been another problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u132	Mr President! Employment is a whole, and the opposition has been surprised by its weakness: there is not as normal, sharp praise for the government's employment policy as usual. Maybe we've figured this out. I think the government has handled this well, and the most important measure of employment has now been to get the Finnish wheels running. More than 3 billion have been put in support to preserve our SMEs' Finnish jobs, and this has been reasonably successful. Another major measure of employment is, in my opinion, the fact that the government is now on a major infrastructure package in transport, both in the budget and in the years to come. Joensuu railway yard alone: the employment impact of a thousand person-years — a thousand person-years, three years. And there are many of these sites all over Finland. Employment in construction, as well as support for local government finances, seems to me to be a major measure of employment, which will then enable municipalities to continue to make reasonable investments. The fourth tool is then
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u133	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! It is important that the work force and the employee meet each other. Have we considered how best to find jobs for workers? And when you take that first employee to work, have you thought about tax relief just in relation to the employment of this first employee? I have many acquaintances who have attended apprenticeships. They have been very satisfied, and the employer has also been satisfied with these results. What are you going to do about this, and is there going to be what kind of development in this apprenticeship?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u134	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This budget presents the Sustainable Tourism 2030 programme, which has many good elements that look far into the future, including electronic air transport and many more. Now, this acute situation, for which I would also like to thank Minister Lintilä for your active involvement in many issues, still needs to be addressed, we need to be able to save Lapland tourism more than this winter — but then as part of it, for example, the event sector, the music industry and many others whose order books have been empty. What measures and messages do you now have to them to get past this difficult winter? And then the question of employment. I will take one question to Minister Haatainen: are you prepared by the government to make a local settlement, as it seems that:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u135	Mr President! We know that during the epidemic, redundancies and layoffs have increased significantly. They have also been targeted in very different ways in different sectors. The Committee on Finance also states in its report that employment, especially for women, has deteriorated more than for men, because the sector that has suffered the most in relative terms in the crisis, that is to say the services sector, is very dominated by women. I would have asked Minister Hatainen: has the government assessed the impact of the crisis on the employment rate of the various sexes, and what has the government done or is doing to promote the employment of women?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u136	Irade the Talman! Representative Kalle asked a good question about Finnish ownership. And when you think about it, it is, of course, essential to ensure that taxation is such that it is worth investing in companies; that you can assume that a company can make a profit in such a way that investment in real property, such as real estate, would not be unduly cheaper. Mr Strand and the Park raised the need for demand in relation to this issue of employment. But, of course, the supply of labour is also essential, and social assistance and the way in which work incentives are viewed are inevitably linked to that debate. So we'll have to look at both sides. We have to get both sides to balanss, and that is essential both in bad times and in good times, regardless of the economic climate. Sankelo talked about peat, and of course there is a need to look ahead. But, of course, we must see that this situation can be dealt with in such a way that there is plenty of peat.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u137	Mr President! Cost support has been mentioned several times in this debate and how companies have been helped to stay upright and overcome the crisis. Thank you very much, Minister, for the fact that this second round of cost support is finally starting. Surely a third round will still be needed next year, and it is a good idea to prepare for it in advance. Now, however, there is a debate on which areas are really excluded, on how, for example, the event sector can be supported. I would like to ask: is it possible already in this second round to implement cost support in such a way that companies in the event sector, for example, can benefit from it? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u138	Mr President! Finland's RD investment should reach 4% of GDP. For this reason, the Coalition Party has presented EUR 100 million in its own alternative budget, and the idea is that this should be done every year for ten years. An increase of EUR 218 million in the appropriations for research, development and innovation activities has been presented in the main category of the Ministry of Research and Innovation compared to the current year and EUR 125 million more is allocated for loans to research and innovation than in the current year. However, when we look at it a little more closely, it seems that these aids in this situation are mainly directed towards the payment of projects resulting from the corona epidemic. In other words, it can be concluded that RD investments will not increase in practice compared to the current year. I would like to ask: where is the ambition of the government here? How do we get towards this 4% GDP target in support of research, development and innovation? It's not just the road maps.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u139	Mr President! Between 2017 and 2020 we had a fine increase in the employment rate, which, of course, was thanks to the last government, and new jobs were created. This is where Mr Koponen said that new jobs are not going to be created, but they have been created, especially in the field of expertise and private social services and communications. Then this corona struck, and now we need to get on the road to growth again quickly. We have companies that need that skilled workforce from abroad, and I know that the government has intervened, but I also call for ambition there, because we are competing in the global market, competing both at European level and beyond. Authorisations should be able to be handled more quickly, including further permits, and bureaucracy should be dismantled, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the need to reduce the number of workers. But then one more question that has not been discussed is Brexit. What has been done with regard to TEM if we have a non-contractual difference in a few weeks' time?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u140	Mr President! The government speaks beautifully about how they pay attention to the employment of over 55-year-olds, but at the same time they have been forgotten in the experiment of employment in municipalities. In other words, all immigrants, who become unemployed — immediately, for example, will be able to participate in the local employment test, these municipal employment measures. But then a Finnish worker over 55 will not be able to participate in municipal employment activities until he becomes a long-term unemployed person. That this kind of conflict is in the government's speeches. Well, this experiment with the municipalities of employment has been done in a real hurry, and there have been many problems. And now it will have to be postponed for another two months. The municipalities have been in doubt all autumn about what is happening and what is going on with the money, and now the government has stretched this start. However, municipalities have rented or arranged premises and employed staff,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u141	Mr President! The impact of social security cuts on employment has been considered here. Well, the situation is that direct effects are quite easy to detect, and indeed there are, but the problem arises from the fact that social security cuts always have indirect effects on the economy, which are much more difficult to detect, let alone an assessment, such as hysteresis or a decline in trust capital or training capital. We know that cuts in social security can improve employment. In countries where there is no social security at all, even young children are working, but at the same time they are not countries on which we should follow suit. In this respect, the pension pipeline is a minor exception because it assumes that the impact on employment is partly due to the fact that age discrimination on the labour market is decreasing, i.e. older people are not so easily kicked out of work in the first round of negotiations when there is no pension line waiting.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u142	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen's forestry policy seems to make sense. I urge the representatives of the government parties to listen to him on many other matters. Seeing the whole is important in energy policy and forestry policy. Whoever screams on Twitter is not necessarily right — and usually is not. It is usually thought that in Finland there is plenty of wood for many purposes. Forests currently grow better than ever, 105 million cubic metres a year, using about 75 million cubic metres. Wood should be sufficient for a wide variety of different locations, but the use of wood is different across Finland, the energy use of wood increases due to this peat decision or the reduction of peat use,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u143	Mr President! There has been a good debate here. When I looked at this list of opposition amendments, I think there is a very sweet consensus here. At least this main category of the TEM does not have too little money, but here too many proposals increase the stakes in the TEM section. Only in these 32 presentations may there be a difference that the little Finns would pinch these employment measures from abroad. In other words, there is probably a great deal of consensus here, and these statements, too, are already strengthening or tightening up the current government programme. This is an excellent thing. To Mr Sankelo's speech on the forest side: I agree with that. We will probably have an additional 150 million cubic metres of forest growth with regard to these management measures, which will also bring us more employment in the harvester's head, and especially if we manage these.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u144	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister for Labour about this aspect of integration, which has a lot of different speeches, the state integration programme, the integration agenda and so on. Could you also, with these hard figures, do more about what is happening there, that is, about employment and education and the effectiveness of various costs and other things? That would be very necessary. In this sector, it has not been very much done. I would also highlight the need for such a study, particularly in these most challenging groups of immigrants, that how many generations can withstand adaptation and employment. For example, in England — I read one news report — now the fourth generation from the Caribbean is beginning to reach roughly the same levels as the native population — unemployment rates are even higher, and employment rates are even lower, but more or less — and the fifth generation can become better. This issue would be very important when it comes to the economic dependency ratio and its development. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u145	Mr President! I'd like to ask myself a few questions about the music industry and the field of events. I myself am the chairman of the parliamentary music network, and we have been in active contact with the Ministry. There has been much talk of this cost support here, and I understand that it would require legislative changes and it is very difficult to see how this would serve this sector better. In that sense, this was an extremely important message that there is something else in preparation, direct support. Maybe one more time I'd ask, what's in there, and when's it coming? The sector is in a very big crisis and needs rapid action. I know you're doing your best, but I'm sure that message would be very important in this time. I would also like to ask Mr Hatainen: what action does the government have to take to combat the shadow economy and to prevent the exploitation of foreign workers? It's an important subject, and I'd like to hear more about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u146	Mr President! It cannot be that we end a business by some parliamentary decision, and the next day we start talking here about taking support and supporting that branch of business — that is not the kind of economy that can be kept when we are already taking on the same debt as VAT revenue. The peat business can simply be handled through the Security of Supply Act. I've suggested it many times. Let us introduce the 20 million mots of peat at maximum, ask the EU to exempt it from emissions trading and drop the tax on zeroes, which means that the domestic energy tree will also be sold. It will then be advantageous and the Russian application will not be here at that time. Work stays in Finland, money stays in Finland, people work. But now we are doing exactly the opposite, so that people go into the cards and small entrepreneurs go bankrupt and money goes abroad. Currently, peatfields are being prepared for Russia and the Baltic countries and Europe will then become other goods. So we become totally dependent on foreign energy, and that is a terrible mistake, for which Urho Kaleva Kekkonen warned in his day that this should not be done. There is a solution. The question is, do we want to do it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u147	Mr President! I would like to clarify that carry back proposal, which I did just now: it really does not concern the field of events alone, at least not for my part, but it would be a general one, targeted at all sectors, which has actually been supported by experts. My real question this time relates to the social security of an entrepreneur, mainly unemployment benefit, which has now been possible with labour market support during the corona period. I would like to ask you, Minister Lintilä, how have you worked on this model of the future, because I understand that even entrepreneurs themselves are not in favour of moving forward with this current model of exceptional circumstances, but of making a completely new solution? Then, Mr President, Minister Haatainen's question regarding the TE Centres: you have just said that a thousand people will be employed there. I am most concerned about myself by academics. Which expert tasks, and even management and management tasks, are the persons who receive the support?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u148	Let us now take Mr Kosonen and Mr Vestman, and then the Ministers' replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u149	Mr President! Next year there will also be financial investment in attracting international experts, and this is a very important, good thing. After all, we often have a bottleneck for a growth company because these foreign experts do not get to Finland quickly enough, the authorisation procedures are slow and bureaucratic, and it is really important that these problems are removed and that money is also invested in, because the competition for these experts is tough and that is also reflected in the results of companies. In the previous debate, quantum computers have already been raised, and it is very good that Finland, in cooperation with VTT, is also investing in it. They are record-breaking in the future: as many as 10,000 years can fall to more than three minutes. Here is a competition with course hard, Google and IBM are in the forefront.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u150	Now, Mr Vestman, and then to the answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u151	Mr President! As we move towards fossil-free energy production, we drive down coal burning and peat burning, we need to be extremely careful about the availability of substitute technology, clean technology, not just any technology, but cost-effective and sustainable technology. I personally fear that, for example, these heat pumps will not be able to avoid the scenario that Estilä, the representative, painted in the woodwork trucks. Finland has a world-leading experience in the use of nuclear energy, very high scientific and technical expertise and high political and social support for the use of nuclear energy. In the world, small nuclear technology is developing rapidly: The first SMR installation has already been type-approved in the United States. My question is: how does the government intend to invest financially in making this technology available? I have made this a budget initiative myself, an initiative of EUR 6 million,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u152	Great.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u153	Mr President! Mr Kivisaari raised an important issue about how different genders are affected by this unemployment situation. The interest rate has, of course, weakened the position of all those who are disadvantaged in the labour market, and now that the services sector was subject to restrictions and then the services were not used because of this interest rate, it was, of course, visible as the first layoffs and unemployment in the female-dominated services sector. But if we look at the period before the corona, if we look at the whole picture of where we are going in the statistics, then, at the same time, I am talking about these older people, the employment rate of men over the age of 55 was just under 65% and that of women 68%. And if we compare this with Sweden, which has also been mentioned here in the speeches, almost 78 per cent of this age group worked, that is, there is a big difference, and that is why we now need measures to increase the employment rate for both men and women and also to focus on the fact that everyone stays on the labour market and is able to work until retirement age, and that is why solutions are being sought. We also know that in older age groups, participation in education and training is much lower than in younger age groups, and that is why attention has now been paid to this issue. And it is very important that we have targeted measures to target the elderly as well, because their survival in the labour market depends on keeping up with development. Mr Nurminen then asked about the activities of the grey economy. My leadership prepared a strategy for the government for the shadow economy, a programme to combat it. It was adopted in the summer and now amounts to EUR 20 million. There are a number of these measures, there are preparations under way from various ministries. One of the concrete things that has appeared in this kind of tax evasion in the construction industry is this tax card. It is being extended to shipyards, among other things, and other areas are being explored. Then there is the exploitation of foreign labour, and when I started working for the minister, I found that this is a big issue. We have experienced a practice of gross exploitation of foreign labour. That is where I launched the task force, and that is where the proposals came from, and tomorrow the first laws will come to grips with this, that is to say, curbing the exploitation of foreign labour and strengthening the status of the victim. And the person who is guilty of this abuse, that is, the employer who is doing so, is being directed at ways in which, for example, he cannot recruit foreign workers with a certain time span. Then there were questions about this municipal experiment as well. This trial of municipalities has been approved for the future with a good consensus here in the Chamber. Now that preparation is being made, it is being managed together with the municipalities, and we will all go through all these things. I think it is important to see what has now been pointed out in several speeches that we are also closely monitored and that we have a monitoring system in place, that is to say, national monitoring, that everyone has access to the appropriate services. The reason why it was delayed — and it was criticised here myself, I find it extremely regrettable — was because it turned out that this information system had not been able to be put in place, but because of the fact that this corona legislation forced many things to be done again in the information systems, and therefore there was no resource to move forward at the speed of the information system as it would have been possible to do under normal conditions. The time needed was measured to normal conditions. Two months' delay won't bring this down. I just had a conversation with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has made
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u154	And Minister Lintilä, also for about four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u155	Mr President! Let's continue with the last list. Mr Pylväs asked about the biogas programme, or about biogas and its exploitation in the biogas programme. This year the first concrete result was: an additional 20 million in the amending budget, and the aim is then to improve both supply and demand. Representative Eestilä asked if truck traffic was taken into account in the emissions. I don't think we've been taken into account. At least I don't know that it's being taken into account in any way. More representatives — Koponen, Sankelo, Hoskonen — brought up the peat. This is certainly a problematic situation. There has been talk of a fair transition all the time, but justice has fallen at the rate at which it has plunged down, and now, of course, we have to go through the measures we can take in the style of security of supply, along with these other measures, in the form of peat, peat. It's clear. And, of course, there is also, through the energy strategy, that part of the chipping. How, for example, would peat operators, could one say, be able to make multi-skillers who could then make part of the peat industry but then, for example, the chipping side? We're working on this right now. Representative Kalli for domestic ownership: The domestic ownership programme, which is run by representative Sipilä, comes in the early part of the year and then comes to the spending limits debate, the mid-term debate, in April, or whenever the mid-term review is final. And that way it is perfectly clear that we need to have more domestic ownership, and hopefully that program will, at least there will be a lot of people doing it. Congressman Yrttiaho asked about the subsidies. Yes, support for businesses is currently the best employment policy. Those companies that have received subsidies have some 270,000 jobs. I do not suddenly think of a better way to support employment than to support those companies. Heinonen asked, and I think Nurminen asked, about the field of events. It's a tough business. After all, if you are a limited liability company, you will have access to cost support — we do not have a sector-specific cap on cost support — that is to say, through it. But we are currently applying with Minister Saarikko on the OKM side. The first difficulty is to share which subsidies come from the OKM side, which from the TEM side, and then its criteria, but this is what we are doing all the time. Adlercreutz also asked about peat, Mäkyne's field of events. Representative Ikonen: 4% of GDP, RD — that is a hard target and we must go towards it. What is positive now: we have a very strong emphasis on research in the EU package. But of course it will help what we have in the EU package, so that it is definitely what we need to invest in. Representative of Ovaska Brexit: This is a little, could you say, cross-administrative, that is, it goes under the guidance of the Prime Minister's Office. It involves the Ministry of Foreign Affairs monitoring the negotiations, and then the big role is played by EK, SY. These are those who are conducting direct negotiations with companies. Customs has a role to play in it, the Ministry of the Interior, but it is under the guidance of the Prime Minister's Office. Congressman Kosonen asked about quantum machine options. It is very interesting what its potential is, but my guess is that in ten years' time we will see materials that we have no idea about at the moment, because the computing power it brings will enable completely new things for the health sector, for the development of materials, and so on. So this is going to be a very interesting whole. Mr Kauma received an earlier response to that carry back, and Vestman was concerned with these small nuclear power plants. In the report on nuclear energy, which came last summer, for the first time these small nuclear power plants have been taken into account. There is no financial investment in them yet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u156	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u157	Mr President! When Korona is relieved next spring, it may be as it usually happens in the spring when the snow melts: the truth is revealed, and all the problems buried by the crisis become apparent. The recent report by the Ministry of Employment on the acquisition of labour shows that employment growth peaks have already ended in 2018. The government's employment objectives in relation to the means it put forward were thus unrealistic even before the interest rate. During the crisis, the government has identified an evasive sustainability gap by twisting the employment target upwards, as if jobs were created by the government's decisions. In the event of a reduction in the sustainability gap, the productivity of the state's operations must also be taken under the bone. The government is cutting significantly more money into employment services, which have been of weak and weaker importance to the unemployed as a source of employment to date. According to a recent report by the Ministry of Employment and Employment, only 17% of the jobs completed in 2019 were filled by the unemployed. In addition, TE Centres are poorly served by private and small employers. The efficiency figure of TE Offices has collapsed since 2016. The trial of municipalities in employment services became record-breaking even before it started. Under the guise of the corona, the government dropped an extra billion dollars in the municipality to prevent them from saving up by laying off or cutting back unnecessary and secondary activities, thereby watering down their chances of trick jobs for the long-term unemployed. As a result, municipalities spend government money to save their own. The sustainability gap in the public sector will not improve. More money for inefficient activities will not work. And although the Ministry of Employment and Employment is satisfied with itself, the services of the TE Offices are ineffective. It should be recognised that only those who are eligible for employment can be unemployed job seekers and that employment services should be distinguished from those that deal with life-management and mental health problems. There are too many social services organisations in Finland, and the TE Centres should not be made new yet. Mr President! No number of employment services are able to lock the unemployed into jobs that no longer exist. Within a year and a half, the Government has managed to develop an inter-sectoral business culture that is toxic to Finland, which contributes to unrealistic climate objectives by destroying inappropriate jobs and even whole industries in its green agenda. The growth of the farm, described as sustainable and green, is based on massive support for the investment phase with public debt money and increased public payment and tax burden during the operating phase. This will increase public finances and tax wedges, feed on the purchasing power of citizens and destroy private jobs. Norway, for example, has used its oil to raise a public pension fund of 1000 billion. Peat would be as big a resource for Finland as oil for Norway, but with its peat and tax decisions, the current government will only succeed in causing hundreds of millions of losses and thousands of jobs to be lost. Developments in the vitality of peatlands are disastrous. The multiplier effects on non-energy production may become unpredictable. Other examples include the tourism, restaurant and cultural sectors, where the government allows itself to be destroyed by unclear and delaying restrictions and subsidies. The government’s promised ‘Finnvera,banks and banks’, however, does not act. There would be demand for funding, but the willingness and ability of banks to participate in the risks of companies is at a record low level. Bringing forward the solidarity of banks in crisis management will be costly for Finland as companies and jobs. The State would best support employment by dismantling its own inefficiencies, reducing the tax wedge and, technically, abandoning the premature targets for Finland's competitiveness and destroying jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u158	Mr President! The government has stated that efforts will be made to stabilise the rapidly deteriorating debt ratio by the end of the decade. Finland will be in debt not only because of the 30 billion interest rate loans but also because of the same size of the fighter acquisition. Billions of loans and liabilities in the EU recovery package will also be repaid in the coming decades. The Ministry of Finance estimates the consolidation of public finances at a level of EUR 5 billion. The debt is therefore on the way to a permanent high level. This will provide the political right for many parliamentary periods ahead with the justification for tightening fiscal policy and pushing through the structural reforms to which Mr Vanhanen referred here yesterday. I'm familiar with the recipe. By no means will public finances be strengthened by direct action, such as reducing the tax benefits of the recipients of capital income, but by the objectives of increasing employment rates and productivity, such as increasing flexibility in working life, local reconciliation with the aim of breaking generality. The list includes a reduction in unemployment and pension security, which is a barrier to working conditions and labour law and to the extension of employment and careers, while at the same time reducing employers' responsibilities and contributions. There is now a great deal of concern about the employment of older people over the age of 55. Of course it is also a legitimate concern, but at the same time it seems to be a veil of modesty to drive through weakening, such as the abolition of the pension line. There is no evidence of a positive impact on the employment rate of a reduction in the pension pipeline, i.e. an additional day's entitlement to unemployment benefit. Such claims are based on the study of VATTI researchers, Kyyrä and Pesola, which compared two age cohorts for the 2004-2013 follow-up period with the increase in the age limit of the pension line in 2004. However, the survey does not take into account the change in unemployment or employment in the population as a whole as a result of the increase in the age limit of the pipe. The results cannot draw the conclusion that raising or abolishing the age limit for the pension line would improve employment on the labour market as a whole. Cutting the pension pipeline does change the age structure of unemployment. In the event of collective redundancies, an older person whose right to a pension pipeline has been lost may be allowed to keep his/her job and the dismissal is directed at a younger person. However, if an elderly worker becomes unemployed, he or she will stay longer in the labour market as a result of a pipe cut in competition for work and perhaps take up the competition when winning a job from a younger person. President! The end of factories and mass redundancies do not disappear from history. Unemployed people who have worked long hours in the same job and have reduced their ability to work are in a difficult position to find a new job. In fact, many fall on basic security. There's a need for a pension line. It should not be removed. In the debate, Finland has been quite superficially compared with Sweden, where the employment of older people is better. However, differences in the country's life expectancy, unemployment history, the depth of the recession in the 1990s and recovery from the financial crisis in the 21st century show that the differences are quite deep in the structure of the economy, and there is a very different need in Finland to soften the retirement of older age groups than in Sweden. That need will not be eliminated by stopping and cutting these systems. After all, many forms of unemployment and early retirement have fallen into the cutlery. It is almost impossible to get an invalidity pension today, and over the years a number of other proposals relating to earnings-related unemployment benefit and occupational pensions have been seen on the cut-off lists, particularly for older workers and the unemployed. Additional days of unemployment benefit are these last means of facilitating the situation of older unemployed people. The abolition of the pension line is a period of one employment policy, including the protection of older workers and social policy, the cutting-off of the last lines and the surrender to the bare labour supply policy. Instead of finally letting the one who is tired at work rest, he is forced to struggle for his position at work or in the labour market to the end, and this is presented in order to help the elderly and to cover up a great deal of concern about the employment of those over 55. The basic reason why the pension pipeline has been cut is the desire of employers to reduce their responsibility for social security. Remuneration is paid by the employer, but also by the state of basic security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u159	Mr President! The Government aims to enable a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable society. Efforts are being made to strengthen employment with the aim of moving Finland step by step towards the so-called Nordic model. This will bring significant social changes. During previous governments, Finland is well behind developments in employment policy in other Nordic countries. These include, for example, the quality of employment services as well as the amount of employment for those who are able to work part-time and those aged over 55. In the budget debate, the government decided to reform its employment objectives. Changes in employment services are expected to start from the beginning of 2022, taking into account legislative preparation. An additional EUR 70 million has been allocated to the Employment and Economic Development Offices (TE Offices) to hire over 1000 new employees. In fact, the reform started as soon as the anger of the citizens was removed at first and the unemployed with their larks. This government has now corrected the matter, and in the future an employment plan will be drawn up for the unemployed, which will at the same time agree on the job seeker's obligation and appropriate other measures. The bilateral discussions will return to practice. Unemployment benefit has always been subject to consideration, as it is now, but in the future the Employment and Economic Development Offices will help job seekers find jobs and will not fall on anyone right away. The obligation to seek a job takes into account the ability of the unemployed to work and the workplace situation in the region. So no one is required to be unreasonable. The employment impact is at least 9,500 additional workers. Mr President! The following employment impact assessments are based on VM calculations: The increase in the lower limit of the supplementary daily allowance for unemployment benefit by one year entered into force from the beginning of 2020. The renewal of adult education took effect from August of this year. In addition to the partial invalidity pension, you could continue to earn up to the benefit rate without the pension being reduced. Then the pension would decrease linearly. The expected entry into force of the reform would be from the beginning of 2023. The impact of these measures has been estimated to be a good 7000 additional employed. Measures to reform wage support will also bring additional employment by simplifying the rules on support by setting the level of support at 50% and increasing the level of pay for part-time workers to 70%. The employment rate of over 55-year-olds will be increased by improving their labour market position and their working lives. These actions can, if successful, create more than 10,000 additional workers. Mr President! It is not surprising that the current situation has been very challenging in the labour market, but the government will not give up
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u160	Mr President! Indeed, the Finnish economy has been hit by the corona, and I will sign the government’s statement that the disease treatment is also an effective medicine for the economy. This is the way it is that when you take a spike in the spring, you start to grow in GDP at the same time. I am convinced of this. This treatment of the corona from the direction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been quite colorful in this year's reverse weather, i.e. has been supported by industry, has been cost support, has been BF support. In the spring, it was discovered that it was challenging to adapt to the facilities that were expected in the companies, but something has now been learned from it this autumn and from experience. In his opening speech of the day, Minister Lintilä mentioned our competitiveness as ‘when the crisis is too bad,he will be ready’. This was Minister Lintilä's quote. In fact, I could ask what the government has done to achieve this. This is the very right starting point, the fact that, when the economy takes off, we must be ready, but when these government papers do not directly identify issues relating to the promotion of competitiveness, probably But Lintila knows this. The diversification of exports will be very important in the future. Compared to Sweden, for example, we have had exports earlier, even before the corona, the challenge that when Swedish exports stand on very many base feet, so we still have a few such core areas that we then use, and it also brings a certain risk. Mr President! The EU Recovery Package is of course an important part of the economic recovery throughout the EU. We pay 6, we get 3 — I'm not quite sure what will happen to us. Minister Lintilä made a good point of highlighting subjects that will then be assessed: investments, the renewal of our industries, that is certainly important. He talked about research and product development, products from higher processing and so on. However, I would challenge this term ‘peltihalls’, which is the subject of ministerial proceedings. I will take, for example, my own province of South Ostrobothnia, as well as Ostrobothnia and Central Ostrobothnia, which are such a basic industrial area. There are actually some of those tin halls with hundreds, even thousands of jobs, where significant export products are made that create well-being for Finland as a whole. I would like to do this kind of pelt hall credit in this speech, and I would also see how necessarily, when we are looking for a new recovery in the EU area and looking for a new rise in Finland, we need a huge number of more tin halls in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u161	Mr President! Finland needs more work and more workers. That is the only way we will be able to secure the services of this welfare state and revive our economy after this crisis. Even before the corona crisis, the aim was to reform and make the labour market more flexible in order to generate economic growth. I am sure we all understand that these measures are needed now more than ever before. Buildings or bureaucracy should never be an obstacle to employment, and working in this country should always be profitable for the person who does it. We know that unemployed job seekers are not a united group but each of them has their own story and their own individual reasons for unemployment. This year, a huge number of people have had to give up their jobs and not work. The structures of employment services must be built in such a way that they have sufficient resources to see people as individuals and life situations as a sum of many things. Improving the effectiveness of employment services is therefore an important objective in order to give as many people as possible a way to work, and this will increase the effectiveness, for example in the management of employment, and municipal experimentation is now looking for answers. By better combining the resources of the state and municipalities, as well as the know-how and cross-cutting services in them, we will have many synergies. However, this will only be done in an appropriate way if these service chains are genuinely seamless. The quality of services for jobseekers must be ensured despite administrative challenges related to municipal experimentation and a seamless transition to services should be ensured. According to the study, it can be assumed that the demand for services will increase as a result of more effective personal guidance for jobseekers in the experiment. This will probably also increase resource needs. It is therefore important that the adequacy of these resources is assessed periodically so that the implementation of the statutory services of each job seeker is not jeopardised. We also know that young people are particularly vulnerable when entering the labour market and we do not want to repeat the mistakes of the past. That is why it is particularly good that the government is now investing in low-threshold services for young people and also in mental health services, which are now being established as part of the operations of the Cabins. We must also increase apprenticeship training and try to develop it, and it is great that these additional efforts have now been made to promote young people's entrepreneurial, economic and professional skills. Mr President! Finland will continue to need entrepreneurs and businesses. It is extremely important that we succeed in supporting companies through this difficult period and in ensuring that Finland continues to be a country in which it pays to try. We must facilitate the bureaucracy associated with entrepreneurship and also ensure that entrepreneurs are able to cope with it and their social security. In order to emerge from the interest-rate crisis, Finland needs more and more innovative companies seeking international growth. The international network must be strengthened so that Finnish experts can find contacts and new market opportunities for our domestic companies as effectively as possible on the international market. It is good that we are now investing in growth and in supporting the capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises in the early stages of internationalisation. The examination of recruitment aid for small and medium-sized enterprises and the payment of wages are also worthy of mention. And in order for our companies in Finland to grow, there must be sufficient skilled labour available. The challenge at the moment in many places is precisely that companies do not meet their needs and their skills. Local government experimentation must contribute to finding solutions to this, and it is quite clear that our economy also needs work-related immigration. That should be made easier if we're to get the people who did it here. In addition to domestic companies, we also need foreign companies who consider investing in Finland worthwhile. And although I often focus here on small and medium-sized enterprises, it is clear that we need to pay more attention to the better integration of large companies in the market, because it is precisely when large companies act as locomotives that many small and medium-sized enterprises are receiving significant incentives for their growth. I would also like to remind you that tourism companies have now had a particularly difficult year and the difficult times this winter are still ahead. It is in the interests of the whole of Finland that we quickly find ways to support tourism. The targets for raising employment rates are ambitious, but they must be. In addition to the means and measures now being put in place, efforts must be constantly and very active in finding more ways to increase work, increase skills and find ways to combine experts and factors and work. That is the only way we will secure these services and this welfare state. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that, apart from the fact that we are always wondering where we can find work or workers, we should also talk much more about how we keep employees at work, and here we are closely linked to this aspect across sectors, including, for example, the reform of social and health services and ensuring that every person in this country gets help in good time, for example, to mental health problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u162	Thank you. — Let us have one more speech, and then the answers of the ministers, and then let us move on from one subject to another.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u163	Mr President! Some new elements: I am very pleased that Minister Hatainen has presented himself to us for the elderly and for those who are able to work part-time, so to speak, to take hold of ourselves. However, I would like to throw the idea out because we have had relatively good entities in the past, where people who are disabled, perhaps because of their disability or otherwise poorly suited to the normal labour market, may have been employed: Would we, however, need to have such a social enterprise network? They would be non-profit-making enterprises, and the profit that comes will be brought into the development of its business, and will thus continue to contribute to the adaptation of these people into a normal society. That is, non-profit social enterprises with a bigger brush, according to the picture. Next summer we also discussed seasonal workers. I know there are preparations going on and there are these notes for young people and so on. Yes, I still want to point out what Minister Lintilä knows, at least, that a hard winter is coming. Until the summer, unfortunately, there will be layoffs in the 100-year-old basic industry, which is our asset, if this world economy is not revived — and now it will certainly not be revived so quickly that we do not also have layoffs. And they are not weeks of layoffs, but that heavy industry, the metallurgical industry, always comes after the rest of the industry, which manufactures consumer products. Allow these laid-off persons, already employed, who are used to working hours, to become seasonal workers during lay-off. There, however, the professional, the welder, has a salary that does not interest the agricultural sector in going to work and does not have such an incentive. But if we gave this earnings-related daily allowance to these laid-off workers who have better earnings, I believe that they would come from there. After all, they are not immediately competent, but certainly a resource available for working life, which should be given the opportunity to ease the pain of seasonal workers, which we will certainly have in the spring, if this is not eased rapidly by vaccination. This matter of hiring the first foreign worker is good if it is to be strongly involved then also in the industrial strategy that is coming. And now there's some kind of recry experiment. However, I would like to reiterate that, although Mr Kontula, who is the representative, said that social security is being cut so that children are also employed in some countries when there is no social security, that I mean that Parliament's information service has at the time fallen that if a company that hires the first foreign worker would not have to pay any social contributions in the first year but would have to cover the basic daily allowance, so that the accident insurance and the employee's individual old-age pension, the occupational pension, would be increased, the cost effect — if the wage in the collective agreement were EUR 12 — would be plus minus zero. In other words, tax revenue would not fall anyway, because it is so profitable when a person pays tax on gainful employment. Of course, as a hundred people, the minister must continue to be blackmailed that this state company, Suomen Malmitehdo Oy, is interested in developing a battery cluster in Satakunta, where there is already a good foothold, because we already have an industry that manufactures battery chemicals. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u164	Then Minister Haatainen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u165	Mr President! There were opinions on the side of these debates in the Chamber. That is the last time I listened to Mrs Rante from the Group of the Finns Party, and I must say that we have a different view with you, at least on the basis of Mrs Rante's speech. It may be said that the point made in the speech is that you want to cut back on services and you have the idea that it will then lead to an increase in employment. We believe that, by strengthening employment services, we will gain an even better grip on this initial stage, and this is the case, which has been shown by the Swedish example in the studies, that when we invest in that initial phase and provide more support for the unemployed, employment will also be faster. I think this is what this big investment is going to do better. Once again, this local agreement was called for in the previous debate on the assembly. That is a good question for the assembly, I think Mr Heinonen asked. It's all very interesting that for four years you had time to do this and solutions were also served. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u166	Minister Lintilä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u167	Mr President! Thank you for your good contributions, and it was pleasant to hear that those priorities were very much the same as those that are being wrestled on the Ministry of the Economy. Actually, to a few points: Congressman Sankelo has restored the tin halls to glory. Yeah, I don't have anything against tin halls, but if we have to improve our competitiveness, then maybe those tin halls aren't the first thing. It is, in a certain way, the basis which must be dealt with on the part of the municipality or whatever it is. But about what has been done: of course, last season we managed to get our cost-competitiveness right, and that was extremely important. This enabled us to raise our employment rate to 73, and very good work was done on it. Now we are faced with the challenge of our productivity competitiveness, and it is out of this EU recovery package that we must specifically focus on these measures that we will be able to improve our productivity. Our productivity is not what our analogue countries are, and it is largely because we have had such a ten-year investment deficit, and that is what we must then be able to improve. This will certainly be a solution to the extent to which we are competitive. This was then mentioned by Mr Virta, who raised it, tourism, which is extremely important. Unfortunately, the situation is that next summer we will still be going with the support of domestic tourism, so it is very difficult to see that there will be a wider opening up. Last summer it was seen that the capital region was missing out on this, while in the rest of Finland it was relatively good to be able to patch up. The EU package is important for exports. 40% of our GDP comes from exports, and 60% from our exports goes to
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u168	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u169	The general debate on Section 32, which was interrupted earlier in this plenary session, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u170	Mr President! This is therefore the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. In this context, I can mention that the assembly had a shadow budget based on how we could create the conditions for 120 000 jobs in this country. The starting point is that it is easier to keep existing jobs and do everything possible to keep those jobs in companies that had good operating conditions and good operating conditions before the interest rate, just because it is always more challenging to create new jobs in the private sector than it is to keep old ones. Mr President! In this respect, I think it is very important that the government has brought a number of different options for interest subsidies to companies and that they have also been improved along this path. This interest subsidy, two of which was before Parliament a couple of weeks ago, is good in that it does not affect, among other things, the amount of aid that the entrepreneur has received so far. And I think it is very important that corona support 3 is also being planned. We still have sectors, such as tourism, travel agencies, events, music events, etc., which have not yet received sufficient support and which are unfortunately at risk of bankruptcy when we reach the end of next year if there is no light at the end of the tunnel. They still need support. In this shadow budget for the Assembly, in which we would like to create the conditions for 120,000 jobs, there were dozens of different proposals for action, and I would like to highlight a few of them. We would like to raise the household allowance, which currently and next year is EUR 2250, to EUR 5000. We would also like to encourage people in a tight situation who are in enforcement so that the protective part of the enforcement is raised from the current EUR 700 to EUR 900. In addition, we would like to raise the student income limits from the current figure of 12,000 to 19,000 euros, i.e. not to lose those subsidies even if you work this much a year. In addition, we would like to carry out a family leave reform in which it would be more flexible for the family, both the father and the mother, to combine the work of a child with the work of a child. Mr President! This is where Minister Lintilä pointed out in the discussions today that Finland has made record-breaking patents this year. This is something that will be visible in Finland in 10 to 20 years' time. A country like Finland needs high levels of expertise and innovation. In that sense, our shadow budget had to invest in raising R & D costs to 4% of GDP. Mr President! We also see the importance of the fact that not only does the state decide the way the money is spent, but that when it comes to the money of men, the people also decide the money. And on this basis, we would like to give 1.3 billion more of the salary and pension into the hand, i.e. to make tax reductions on income taxes, and this applies to both workers and pensioners. At present, there is more tax on pensions at many levels of income. Mr President! I myself would also like to get rid of the drop tax, which is an additional tax of around 6% on pensioners who earn more than EUR 47,000 a year for their income exceeding that limit. In addition, President, I would also like to point out that Finland will only succeed by being competitive in the future and by investing here in Finland. Earlier this year, the Prime Minister raised the possibility of a six-hour working day, and I am quite concerned
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u171	Mr President! Next year's budget shows that the government is really preparing for the post-column period, with employment measures, training reforms and investment. This government is finally bringing the resources of employment services closer to the Nordic level. In order to support job search and provide guidance to services, the assessment of the needs of the unemployed for services will be developed and support for job search will be increased so that the unemployed will be confronted at the beginning of the job search every two weeks. After this, a month-long period of intensive service will follow after every six months of unemployment. We Social Democrats have always assumed that unemployment benefits include the fact that the unemployed are looking for work when their ability to work makes it possible. The reform of the Nordic model of employment services has been prepared in such a way that the obligation to seek a job takes into account the ability of the unemployed to work and the workplace situation in the region. No one is thus required to be unreasonable. The government reform will also significantly moderate the level of unemployment security, and a note will also be introduced. So no one gets three months of carnival like they do now. In addition, the Government will increase the opportunity for part-time workers to find employment at a completely new level, i.e. so-called Next Level. The recruitment of part-time workers will be encouraged through 70% wage subsidies and an operator will also be set up who will not only employ himself but also pass on the labour input of the part-time and disabled to businesses. In Sweden, for example, a similar type of operator employs 25,000 part-time employees. The Government also invests in better employment for young people. The Government will reform apprenticeship training, invest in young people's low-threshold mental well-being services and prepare a fixed-term start-up experiment for under 30-year-olds. With the decisions taken and the measures that will be completed in the mid-term debate, such as the reform of continuous learning, we are moving in the right direction step by step in the face of global adversities and scourges. Mr President! With its policy, the Government will ensure that as many companies with a healthy and functional business as possible survive the interest rate. In addition, the decisions now being taken will enable the business community to operate in an environment that will support renewal and new business opportunities, both now and in the future. The success of Finnish industry and support for the green transition are of paramount importance if welfare state services are to be funded in the future. This will be supported by a number of measures in the draft budget, including the lowering of the electricity tax to the minimum permitted by the EU and the allocation of EU stimulus package funds to green growth. In addition to the recovery plan, the Government will also prepare a strategy for renewables by the 21st framework session. For example, investment aid of EUR 60 million will be granted for investments in energy to replace coal. This significantly supports Finland's objective of carbon neutrality, as nearly 40 per cent of the emissions from district heat production come from coal and 12 per cent from greenhouse gas emissions from the whole energy sector in Finland. The first decisions on investment aid were recently taken and four projects received a total of around EUR 8 million. Supported projects are part of wider plans for, inter alia, the transition from coal to accelerated coal use in Vaasa. Mr President! Finland’s special opportunity for new growth is related to responsible and sustainable business and the opportunities offered by digital transformation. There is a huge global demand for solutions in these sectors, so it is possible to recover several times the euro used to support exportable solutions as export revenue. Now is not the time to put emissions targets on the shelf, but to support companies in a new climate-friendly growth policy, in developing technologies and, above all, in bringing them to the world market. Mr President, this is a climate handprint.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u172	Mr President! Koronapandemia has received the greatest attention, but unfortunately the old problems have not been resolved by themselves or disappeared. Of course, after the interest rate, we must get involved in economic growth and we must be able to raise the number of people employed. Of course, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has a role to play in promoting sustainable economic growth. The fight against climate change, the full use of human labour input and the promotion of productivity are key objectives in the administrative sector. The fight against climate change is not such a small-scale budgeting exercise. It is true that, on a global scale, Finland is certainly a small factor, but as citizens of the welfare state, however, our personal carbon footprint is great. For a small country, international agreements are a lifeline. We cannot demand action and action from the big countries if we are not committed to them ourselves. President! However, reason and critical thinking are also an asset in climate matters. We have good opportunities to use our expertise in the sustainable use of natural resources and in the circular economy. In addition to the solution to climate change, I also see clean technologies as potential new success stories in Finland. Ensuring the availability of skilled labour is absolutely essential for companies. Contributions to education, as the government has done, are part of this important solution. Furthermore, we must be able to make our labour markets more flexible. Local agreement and its promotion must not just remain a matter for discussion; the right results must be achieved. President! In addition, we must be capable of healthy selfishness and promote domestic ownership. Companies must be able to grow and employ in Finland. We are all happy every time a company invests in Finland. The state must not stand in the way, for example, in the form of excessively strict taxation or regulations. I also look forward to good presentations from the domestic ownership programme in preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u173	Mr President! Minister of Finance Vanhanen said that the time for tightening fiscal policy would begin in 2022, but now and next year we would be living in a time of economic recovery. This is, of course, the right thing to do in terms of economic policy, and that is a good thing. However, I have the courage to question the effectiveness of the resuscitation that has been carried out so far and may be expected. The distribution of these multi-billion-dollar business subsidies over the past year has not, for one reason or another, been done in the best possible way in terms of the efficiency of the distribution of money from the point of view of employment. Companies have not been required to employ as a condition for aid other than for a very small proportion of restaurant aid, but on a large scale this has not been required. However, this could have been required as a condition for aid and, in fact, the opinions received by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy concerning these subsidies for businesses, restaurant support and cost support have given critical attention to this. Moreover, the possibility for companies to distribute dividends to owners, i.e. the possibility for companies receiving these subsidies to distribute dividends, is not limited in any way. It may have happened that the company aid distributed by the State has slipped directly into the owner’s pocket. Moreover, in the past year, measures to stimulate consumer demand have not been implemented in practice. For example, transfers to low incomes and increases in benefits could have been a very good way to keep business running, but such measures to stimulate consumer demand have not been seen. However, the use of funds with the lowest benefit ratio is represented by participation in the EU Recovery Package, of which Finland's responsibilities amount to around 13 billion loan guarantees and grants. We will pay EUR 6.6 billion for the grant share and perhaps get back some 3, although the final so-called recovery sum is still open. It is quite incontrovertible that the package is an exceptionally absurd entity for Finland. In practice, Finland's responsibilities are about taking out a EUR 3 billion loan from the EU Commission and repaying this loan capital more than twice. This is particularly absurd in the current interest rate situation. This state-economic absurdity is now mainly justified by the fact that the package as a whole would stimulate the European economy and improve Finland's export opportunities. No impact assessments have been carried out, nor have the experts consulted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, for example, in the context of this recovery package decision, given any justification for this assumption. The package has also been justified as an expression of some form of general European solidarity, as if the aim of the package were to help the poor and those affected by the interest rate in the south, even though it is actually helping the French and German banks to cope with the crisis and, at the same time, creating a European federal state. It is also claimed that financial discipline would not be included in the package, but this is not the case. In fact, the Commission may require structural reforms of various kinds as a condition for the recovery plans, as is now the case, for example, for Spain's pension and labour market reforms. This was reported recently by El País magazine. This policy, which the Commission is pursuing through the recovery package, is also being pursued in Finland and has long been under way: various weakenings of labour law and the deterioration of unemployment and pension security are being presented and brought to the table at all times. In this respect too, therefore, this EU stimulus package contains the same logic of right-wing economic reforms as it was in the times of the euro crisis in these support packages back then about ten years ago. That logic is summed up in two words: “The people pay. “ - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u174	Mr President! We have talked a lot today about how serious the attack on Finnish companies has been and many companies have suffered a great deal, but there have also been support measures and attempts by the government, thanks for that, to keep companies alive and to help them cross the valley of death. One sector that has suffered from corona pandemic in particular is the Finnish restaurant sector. After all, the restaurant had to close in the spring, and since then it has been possible to keep the restaurants open in a limited way, but the sector has now been curdled with these restrictions once and for all so much that very many restaurants are in very bad oxygen. Of course, alcohol consumption in restaurants has declined radically when restaurants are not open. However, when looking at Alko’s sales figures, this consumption seems to have shifted from the sale of Alko’s shop, and this year Alko estimates that it has charged as much as EUR 100 million in extra tax and value added tax on its sales. This is already a significant increase in Alko's output, and now that this growth has taken place at the expense of the restaurant industry, I think it would be right and reasonable for this increase in Alko's tax revenue to be channelled to the benefit of the restaurant industry. Would it then be direct aid to support the restaurant sector by EUR 100 million directly in this country, or could it be possible to reduce the tax on alcohol sold in the restaurant or possibly reduce the value added tax on products sold in the restaurant in such a way that the total amount would be equivalent, so that this benefit to Alko will then be directed to where it actually belongs and to those who have actually suffered, in other words, to Finnish restaurants and restaurant entrepreneurs? This would have a significant stimulating effect on the functioning of restaurants, it will have a job-creating effect and so on. Surely it is not necessary for such expert listeners to be more precise in explaining the benefits of this. That is what I am proposing, and I hope that the government will take this into account and act in accordance with this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u175	Mr President! Perhaps I would have responded to two comments. Firstly, Mr Yrttiaho referred to this European recovery package and considered it an absurd investment on the part of Finland. In this context of the corona crisis, the Finnish Government has invested enormously in getting out of this economic crisis caused by this corona crisis, and in this respect we are trying to revive with both domestic investments and domestic investments directly and also by participating in the Union's common budget by participating in the euro recovery, which will certainly also have an impact on employment in Finland. It is worth remembering that Finnish exports employ more than one million people in Finland. Calculatingly, about 1100,000 people live in the export industry, in export production. 60% of Finland's exports to the European Union go to Finland. We can calculate that roughly between 650,000 and 660,000 Finns are employed by exporting to the European Union. If the European Union recovers from a 2% increase, calculated as being at Union level in this stimulus package, it will have a direct employment impact on Finland by 15,000 workers. This is the plus of Finland's giving its own resources to a common European project or recovery instrument in principle — we benefit indirectly from it. Of course, this is worth taking into account when we look at this whole, and this participation in the recovery fund is therefore not an absurd activity but a most rational activity. Mr Kauma here spoke about taxation, and I will not go into any further — this is not the time for taxation — with regard to the alternative budget for the Coalition, but when he referred to the taxation of pensioners, which the Coalition Party in particular wanted to pay attention to, it is right to pay attention to the taxation of pensioners in Finland. The same pension income and earned income are taxed more on pensioners than on employees. In most cases it is explained by the Ministry of Finance that there is no earnings-related pension insurance contribution paid by the employee, ranging from 8 % to 8,5 %, and then the amount of the cash-flow would be the same for the employee. But, admittedly, Mr Kauma is right that this flat-rate tax on the highest pension income is different from the corresponding solidarity tax on earnings in the highest income brackets, and this is a problem for equality law, and in that sense it is worth opening up this issue in a different context than this one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u176	Presentation of Section 30 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. At this stage, 1.5 hours will be reserved for the general discussion in the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u177	Mr President! Minister! The total budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is set at around EUR 2.75 billion. It is about EUR 54 million more than in the 2020 budget itself. The operating expenditure of the Natural Resources Centre is set at EUR 79 million, which is EUR 2.5 million more than in the actual budget for 20 years. The committee draws attention to a project launched at the Natural Resources Centre, partly through the funding of Parliament, which examines the emissions and emission reduction potential of different and different types of peatlands. The committee adds EUR 200,000 to the study of peat fields in Ruukki. State aid for the development of rural livelihoods: The proposal is EUR 5.3 million, which corresponds to the level of the actual budget for the year 20. The committee welcomes the fact that the government has thus implemented the Parliament's statement on the matter. State aid for 4H activities is proposed at EUR 3.8 million. The committee adds EUR 300000. EUR 1.1 million is proposed for rural development in the form of state aid for village activities. The committee adds EUR 300000 to the subsidy for village activities. Mr President! The committee is concerned about the profitability of agriculture. The Committee notes that Pellervo's Economic Research Institute estimated that entrepreneurial income in the agricultural sector would be around one third lower in 2021 than ten years ago, when entrepreneurial income totalled almost EUR 1.5 billion. EUR 4 million is proposed for the development of the food chain. The committee adds EUR 200,000 to the financing of the Arctic Aromit ry project. EUR 32.6 million is proposed for the promotion of the natural resource and bioeconomy. The Committee considers it necessary that most of the funding be allocated to measures under the land-use climate programme, totalling EUR 24.5 million. An amount of EUR 11.25 million is proposed to compensate for the damage caused by predators, which is EUR 2.4 million more than in 2020. This appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the purchase, hire, maintenance, repair and repair of buildings and parts of buildings, as well as the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of buildings and parts of Reindeer damage is estimated at EUR 10.7 million in 2020. Reducing large-scale fraud requires more effective and effective action. Support for ensuring the sustainability of wood production: EUR 55 million is proposed for this article, which is EUR 1.2 million less than in 20. It is worrying that interest in making and improving forest roads has decreased. It threatens the future of wood supply. In order to promote forest management, EUR 8 million is proposed, which enables Metso's actions in the area of approximately 3400 hectares under the Forest Biodiversity Action Plan for Southern Finland. State aid to the Finnish Forest Centre: EUR 42.1 million is proposed for this article, which is EUR 3 million more than in 20. For several years now, Metsäkeskus has been facilitating its services and trying to take advantage of the service and productivity benefits offered by digitality. Support for the afforestation of wasteland areas: the committee considers a new item and EUR 1.36 million to be proposed to it to be necessary and also considers it appropriate that the new incentive scheme should become permanent. EUR 9.7 million is proposed for the promotion of fisheries. The committee adds EUR 300000 to this item, EUR 100000 to Säkylä's Pyhäjärvi management fishery, EUR 100000 to the Finnish Federation of Leisure Fishermen, EUR 60000 to the Finnish Union of Professional Fishermen and EUR 40000 to the Finnish Union of Inland Fishermen. Metsähallitus’s target for results has been EUR 98.6 million, of which EUR 98 million is to be made available to the state in 2020. Some public administrative functions of Metsähallitus: An amount of EUR 8.1 million is proposed for this article. The committee adds EUR 150000 for the rehabilitation of the Evo youth camp area used by patrols and EUR 50000 for the development of the Geopark route between Lauhanvuori and Hämeenkangas. I would like to thank the Minister, the section members and the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry since 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u178	Thank you. — Minister Leppä, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u179	Mr President! Thank you to the Committee on Budgets' Agriculture and its chairman for the good work, the good speech and the emphasis you have made, including the additions you have made. I am very pleased with them, as are the concerns you expressed, Mr President-in-Office. I fully agree with you, and it is our joint task to tackle these concerns and, in particular, to improve their profitability. I would also like to thank the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for the work and the opinion on this point. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to raise the overall national budget for agriculture and rural development, which was thus secured by this budget. A total of EUR 7.78 billion has been earmarked for national funding for the coming seven-year period, which corresponds more or less to the current level. This is a very important part of the stability and the far-reaching outlook that farmers need when planning their production for the coming years. EU funding will bring more euros to Finland, in particular to the rural development programme, which will also receive a contribution of more than EUR 200 million from the EU Recovery Facility. Thus, the share of EU funding will increase by around 6% compared to the current period. When we look at this funding as a whole, both national and European, we can say that we now have a strong economic framework to implement an ambitious and competitive agricultural policy, just as the concern that the President-in-Office has just raised needs. This is our future programming period: responsible and competitive food from the best raw materials in the world, while we do it with climate wisdom and animal welfare. Korona has brought security of supply to everyone's lips, both in Europe and in Finland. I am pleased that this overall funding provides the means to strengthen the resilience of our entire food system to the crisis. President! In the government, we have also agreed on the full compensation of the decrease in the yield of Veikkaus, which is an extremely important issue for the horse industry. Next year, then, we will be able to pay for horse training and horse sports at this year's level. Horse farming and sport are also sectors that require a stable financial perspective in order to be able to plan farming and breeding activities over a long period of time. Similarly, in the budget debate, we were able to agree on the continuation of the village trade grant, to which EUR 2 million is now being allocated. I am very pleased about this. This started last season, during Sipilä's reign, and this has proved to be effective and necessary, and now it will be followed up and more village shops will be able to enter this area. President! In the main category of natural resource sectors, strong investments in the good management and sustainable use of forests continue. Finland lives from forests. The importance of forests for the national economy can be calculated from the fact that each wood-fired wood produces EUR 200 for the national economy. It's good in the whole value chain from forest owner to machine contractor, truck driver to factory or saw gate and port workers' hands to the world as an export product. Kemera’s funding of the sustainable forestry incentive scheme remains high at EUR 53 million. This year there has been a good stream of forest management work, and there has been a demand for Kemera support when the government decided to extend it to ash fertiliser, among other things. We'll make sure we have enough money. The new budget includes the afforestation aid mentioned by the President-in-Office, for which more than a million have been earmarked. On the natural resource side, the budget also shows a climate programme for the land use sector aimed at reducing soil emissions and strengthening carbon sinks and stocks. Part of this will be a huge contribution of millions of euros to research, and here I also thank the section for its very good work. — you continued to increase this funding for research. We have a black hole in climate information. The estimates for carbon sequestration vary between one million and 10 million tonnes, and that is too much. We know much more about what is happening on earth than about what is happening underground, and for this we need research. Metso funding will also rise, and game wetlands will be restored with the help of the Sotka project. A total of EUR 12 million — more than ever — will come from hiking fish. Finally, on the game side, we also carried out the will of the Parliament to encourage young people to engage in hunting activities by halving the fees for the 18-year-olds. President, here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u180	Thank you. — We are now going to the debate for about half an hour. I would ask those representatives who wish to participate to press the V button. The V button is open for about 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u181	Mr President! There were very many points in this budget which I would like to comment on, but because of the lack of time, I am focusing only on the big picture in general terms. This has already been mentioned, and I too am very concerned about this confrontation in the whole agricultural and forestry sector, and raising the taxation of peat around the subject under discussion is a good example of how rapid changes within the whole sector can be, even out of control. We are at great risk of similar developments if we do not take seriously the warnings of the forestry industry, forest owners, farmers, machine entrepreneurs and many other actors. Our task is therefore to ensure the profitability of agriculture and forestry, interest in the sector, security of supply and the maintenance and improvement of export opportunities in both sectors. Minister, how can we take care of and improve the competitiveness of our agriculture and forestry industries?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u182	Mr President! Thank you to the section president and the minister for their excellent work. It is important that we have such people who are unwaveringly defending Finnish security of supply: that forests continue to grow and to be able to use different farming methods; that we have enough wood for different products; that we take care of national support funding — even if it is blamed — so that we can ensure security of supply in food production; that we carry out reforms of animal welfare legislation or changes in climate policy in such a way that our food production continues to pay for; that we can safely live in rural areas, for example, the strain hunting of the wolf goes forward; that we see:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u183	Mr President! In the current situation, the white cheek geese, as the EU's most numerous species of geese, would be included in Annex III to the Berne Agreement and Annex II to the Birds Directive, which would make it possible to regulate its position by hunting. However, the definition of the EU Birds Directive does not determine which national legislation the species must be. In Sweden and Estonia, for example, white cheek geese are classified as game, allowing hunting for protection to prevent serious damage to crops. Minister Leppä, how can white-cheese geese find their established fields, and how can they at the same time leave other fields and regions alone? Why do we not grant permission to use geese as food for shooting? Instead, we burn or bury good game meat, and so we do not respect the game that has been shot? And when the White - cheeked Goose Task Force made concrete proposals for political guidelines, which of these will the government carry out, and with what timetable? And when it is just over 11 million to the destruction of the beasts, the great beasts
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u184	Mr President! The development of profitability in agriculture is crucial for the future of food production. The better the price of the products, the healthier and more vibrant the market environment will emerge as a result. In the opinion of the Assembly, support for agriculture should be directed towards promoting active and innovative agriculture. Agricultural support schemes also contribute to agricultural or non-productive emissions, such as the state of water bodies. I would like to ask Mr Leppa the same question as I asked the Environment Minister, Mr Mikkoe: what measures would you be prepared to take to improve the situation of food producers, farmers, the profitability of food production, and, on the other hand, to prevent nutrients from flowing into water bodies? One such additional element of support could be aid for the transfer of manure phosphorus. Would you consider the support of the experts?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u185	Mr President! One interesting aspect of this future budget next year is indeed this climate programme for the land use sector, for which EUR 24.5 million is being directed. The major issues that need to be resolved are these issues relating to the clearing and use of peatfields. About 50% of agricultural emissions come from peat fields. As Mr Multala has said here, many researchers, and also those who have heard from the committee, have said that at the same time we can both improve the profitability of agriculture and reduce emissions, for example, through the development of farming techniques, and this is a positive message which we can also send out here to all farmers. At the same time, the committee has pointed out in this report that consumer choice also has a significant impact and consumers increasingly want to buy sustainable products.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u186	Mr President! Support for the village trade, the replacement of the reduction in the yield of Veikkaus from the budget to the horse sector, afforestation aid, the halving of the game management fee and the rehabilitation of wetlands, which has yet to come from the committee, are small details to be commended, but the professional fisherman does not thank you at this point. When we talk about the disadvantages of large predators, the compensation for animals protected by a law drawn up by the Ministry of the Environment has been taken into account for reindeer husbandry, agriculture, fish farming in so far as the stork or gnat is causing damage, but where is the compensation for damage caused by cormorants to professional fishermen? It is scandalous that constitutional equality is not being achieved and it is known that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has also been involved in the preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u187	Irade the Talman! Jag vill börja med att tacka minister Leppä för att vi har en lantbruksbudget som gör att jordbrukarna ännu ett år kan fortsätta kämpa för sin överlevnad. Jag vill också tacka hela regeringen, och förstås också minister Leppä, för att vi nådde stora framgångar när det gällde EU:s långtidsbudget, också det ger en trygghet in i framtiden. Vi har också sett den ox livsmedelsmarknadslagen som har gått igenom som tryggar ställningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u188	Mr President! According to the Finnish Natural Resources Institute Finland's estimate, the combined entrepreneurial income of Finnish farmers will decrease by as much as 17 per cent by 27 as costs increase and returns remain unchanged. This situation is unsustainable over a long period of time. How does the government intend to ensure that our country remains cultivated profitably and so that the security of supply in Finland is secure? Secondly, when will the government bring in a proposal which, in the spirit of the citizens' initiative, makes it possible to hunt the wolf's stock? Thirdly, in the 21st century, the stock of calmed white goose has grown strongly to over 1.3 million birds. Not all Finns have food, and then government funds start feeding geese. Is the government ready to give up?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u189	Mr President! The sales of Finnish food and, above all, food exports would be very important. There would also be considerable potential there. How does the Minister see this opportunity? Of course it would also improve Finnish agriculture at the same time. I can't go past this big beast compensation either. In other words, with the EU ceiling of 10 million and now it is 11.25, of course, a large proportion is being targeted at the glutton which is destroying reindeer farming, but there is also a wolf as one of the most important, and these compensations are, of course, going to hunting dogs and farm animals. How does the minister see this possibility of stock management hunting for the wolf? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u190	Mr President! Wolves and a white goose are the real problem. We have to do something about them. What are they going to do about it? But also other bugs: If you think that the trees on that side of Germany have spread so much about those pests, pests, and you have had to cut down wood from quite a wide area, you can’t resist open fellings now, can you? Well, a forest owner should have a word to say about it. What are you going to do about it? Then I think about this Finnish local food: Have you ever thought about getting more of such an operation started, that municipalities, cities, nursing homes and even if all schools would make food out of local food so that we could get that food close by? It could be of considerable importance in the whole Finnish economy if they were local production. Is this what's planned?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u191	Mr President! One of the challenges for the future of agriculture is the change of generations of farms. It is now the case that, following the changes in the system of waivers, masters and wives are giving up the farm to the next generation as older people. This is a natural trend in many occupations as careers are becoming longer. However, the specific nature of the business must be known in relation to the agricultural sector. If a new generation leaves the farm to the world, acquires a profession and a family for employment in other places, the likelihood of continuing the farm will inevitably fade over the years. That is why I believe it is necessary for us to work towards solving this problem and to seek new models without prejudice to the promotion of generational exchanges. I would like to ask the Minister: what is your own assessment of this situation, and how are we able to meet this important challenge for the future on Finnish farms?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u192	Mr President! The capitalisation of Makera by the Agricultural Development Fund is essential for the payment of subsidies for investments in agriculture and start-up aid for young farmers. I must thank Minister Leppä and the entire government for having complied with the Government Programme and, in fact, has been transferred to the Agricultural Development Fund through the budget a little more than was agreed in the Government negotiations. We are talking about such things as road maps for a long time, even in very difficult matters, as in the tax policy, for example, that we should look beyond government and parliamentary periods. Is there a strategic approach to the financing of investments in the agricultural sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u193	President! Forests and fields account for just over four fifths of Finland’s surface area. In these areas, there is a huge impact on environmental issues such as climate change, harvest and the health of water bodies. In future, increasing attention should be paid to reducing environmental damage in the development of policies in these areas. It is great that additional funding is now available for climate action and research in agriculture and the land use sector. On the agricultural side, the busiest thing is peat fields. Their soil accounts for more than half of the total climate emissions from agriculture, although peat fields are only about one-nineth of the arable land area. Therefore, in the development of climate-friendly agriculture, the most urgent issue is to stop clearing new peat fields. Forests, on the other hand, account for about a quarter of the forest, and also for the way they are treated, especially for open fellings.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u194	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking the members of the Committee's Agriculture Section for very important additions to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. During the crisis, we have talked a lot about security of supply, and in this debate we cannot overemphasize the importance of our own food, water and energy economy. Investments in research, food training and the development of the skills of farmers and other actors in the natural resource economy contribute to the growth potential of the sector, including in the bio- and circular economy. The decision-making process must always be based on researched information and it is therefore important that the committee proposes EUR 200,000 for research into the peat fields in Ruukki. Similarly, we need to ensure that organisations that do valuable work are able to operate. Thanks, therefore, for the EUR 300000 increase in 4H activities and also for the EUR 300000 increase in the State aid for village activities. In conclusion, I too would like to ask the Minister when today came to the conclusion that: The fishing of the wolf pack in Haapajärvi has been suspended by a decision of the administrative court: how do we safeguard the safety and legal security of the people in the region?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u195	Mr President! The natural resources will continue to be bread, and it is extremely important that the good prospects of the forest industry are safeguarded by a good national forestry policy that is not built between confrontation and conflict and protection and climate objectives. That's the way we have to go. Then to this white cheek and wolf thing: I think Minister Leppä has a good attitude in this traffic. Now these trials are over, and now we have to find solutions to these stock management issues. We don't have a choice anymore. Then on to energy policy: You can't help grasping this turf issue. I do not question the decision, it is a good decision, but we probably did not believe that the energy industry would react so quickly here. I checked today at the Tohmajärvi border station, and last month there have been 1,500 trucks of chippings and 200 trucks of peat crossing the border, and what about the other border stations? There's something we should be doing right now. This wasn't supposed to happen. How to secure growth peat in the future,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u196	Mr President! We Finns also appreciate peat and peat. Consequently, we do not accept tax increases in this sector either. Peat is also largely a security of supply issue for our country. It must therefore be better taken care of than it is at present. The peat industry is also an important employer in Ostrobothnia, for example, as in Finland as a whole. Today, the situation is that if the increase in energy peat is reduced or completely stopped in our country, it will also put at risk a large number of horticultural and primary farms. This is because, for example, the availability of dry peat and the profitability of the sector are significantly deteriorating and employment is deteriorating. The availability of dry peat is a major and essential factor for animal welfare and health. Growth peat, on the other hand, is a lifeline for greenhouse farmers, for example. The Finnish Parliament Group has proposed that the tax evasion of peat should be cancelled as a whole and that the future of peat production in our country be taken care of at the same time. So I ask you, Mr Government: are you prepared to cancel the peat tax increases and be prepared to continue to secure peat production in our country? I would also like to end by personally thanking Mr Leppää and all the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the chairman and the officials of the committee for this year. Indeed, in this committee things are arguing, not people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u197	Mr President! Finnish food export projects are now a long way from effective cooperation. Decentralised export efforts have not produced sufficient results. The main problem is that we do not have a proper food export strategy, but we are working on how everyone sees fit. In addition, we lack an export engine for food exports, which would attract other companies in the sector to international meat dams. Minister! We do not have a shortage of good starter food producers and clean and internationally interesting products. We have a shortage of passion to combine this food cluster into a new creamy export industry. What are you, Minister, going to do under this budget for a new and bold strategy for food exports?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u198	Mr President! Peat fields have already been sidelined in many speeches in this Chamber, and it is very good that at that Ruukki in Siikajoki Luke's research station we have been able to build this kind of peat field unit, from which we can get the right research results to see what is happening in that peat field. A few days ago, these results were released, the first from what has been discovered over the past summer, and the results have been quite surprising to the prejudices that have been found about peat fields. The trend was much better than expected. In committee, we added EUR 200,000 to the study of Luke Ruukki's peat fields so that this support could continue to be made. I would ask the Minister whether this study of Ruukki's peat fields could be ensured for a longer period of time, so that it would not always be in the hands of the committee every year. And the second question is what kind of ideas the minister had in mind about these research results, which was published a few days ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u199	Mr President! This corona period has also proved that self-sufficiency in food and energy production is an absolute and uncompromising issue. The producer and the entrepreneur should be able to get something out of their work. There are dark clouds now that this is not the case. The Government drives carbon-neutral Finland in 2035 with such a rarity that it has led, among other things, to an uncontrolled, rapid shutdown of peat production. At the same time, when the peat is raised, peat is obtained for animals and peat for gardens. There should be no shortage of these. It is a question of animal welfare and, at the same time, economically viable material. The replacement product is not in sight.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u202	Mr President! Representative Elomaa asked about the essentials: agriculture, peat production, animal welfare with it. I look forward to the Minister's reply. — — — — If only you were on the line with Congressman Hoskosen. Well, there are a lot of things here, but I raise the point I have always reminded Minister Leppää about and asked him in writing, and that is our Finnish horse. In your reply to my written question, you said that you do not consider the position to be so low. Over the years, though, it is low, but you forget this diversity. The smaller the strain, the more impoverished it will become, and you will understand that a few horses are not used to carry it up. I have been playing foal money, and this has come to me from Finnish horse breeders. There are many small farmers who do not receive this agri-environmental aid, for example. That money would motivate them and encourage them to do so, in order to preserve this precious animal of Finland's independence. I've even taken initiatives here on the title of a ceremonial animal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u203	Mr President! This draft budget contains a new article based on a new law, afforestation, with a budget of 1.36 million. It is rather small but important in principle, and the committee has hoped that this incentive system would become permanent. The question that I am asking the Minister is that there is now a new system of scientific classification of funding in the EU, so-called taxonomy, and it is concluded that Finland's forests and forestry are not sustainable. At that time, this non-sustainable classification poses some serious problems for the financial institution in terms of financial allocation, because in the future financial institutions will not finance such investments that are classified as non-sustainable in taxonomy. And now that it seems that EU policy, contrary to what the previous Commission did, has taken climate policy and emissions quite strongly under a magnifying glass, what can we do about this problem now, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u204	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister and all those who have contributed to this matter for the funding of recreational fishermen, fishing roads and hiking fish and for strengthening village activities and the funding of Finnish villages, and I would also like to thank you for this conservation of biodiversity, Metso funding. But then a few questions: The own regulation on the origin of food in restaurants is coming to an end in April 2021. Has a further decision been taken here, Minister? Then the wolves, the white geese, the cormorants — feel that in this Chamber, all but the greens are in favour of those solutions. Can we take care of them together now? Let us now leave the greens aside and make the necessary decisions to allow for the stock management of wolves, the hunting of white cheek geese and the reduction of the stock of cormorants. Finally, Minister, do you have any ideas and solutions for the financing of the horse sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u205	I will give two more comments and then three minutes to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u206	Mr President! The Chairman of the Finns Party, Halla-aho, has announced that he firmly believes that people living in rural areas do not need to be passed on to their support policies. However, the Finns have not been encouraged to tell us what these support policies are and what they would like to abolish. So I ask Minister Leplä: what are these keppulas? What is their significance for domestic agriculture and forestry? And thirdly: what would happen to the people of Finland in the rural areas if the kepulainen subsidies demanded by the Finns of Finland were stopped?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u208	Thank you. — Mr Huttunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u209	Mr President! A very good question from Mr Kivisaari, and I am also looking forward to an answer from the right-hand side. We have started the work of a parliamentary working group on sparsely populated rural areas and started preparing the first pilot projects aimed at promoting the vitality of rural areas through experiments. There are many places in Finnish rural areas where it has now been discovered that during the corona period the importance of the seasonal population has been very great, people have gone to work remotely in the countryside. I would therefore like to ask how the government keeps the villages alive and, above all, how to support entrepreneurship in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u210	Thank you. — Minister Leppä, three to five minutes, so many questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u211	Mr President! There really were a lot of questions. I'll answer as many as I can. A great many of you, ladies and gentlemen, asked about profitability and how it will be secured, how it will be improved, and that is our common concern. Well, the starting point is that for the next seven years, both in EU funding and in national funding, we have been able to achieve a view on a slightly rising curve. This is a big deal. Secondly, flexibility in regulations and regulations to act more in a way that takes account of the circumstances of each Member State, in this case the northern conditions of Finland. This is a very important issue. The third point is that we are now reducing bureaucracy, the administrative burden. For the first time now there is a view that the new programming period will start, that this will actually happen, and this will also have a cost-reducing effect, that is quite clear. All of this has a big bearing on security of supply. It is clear that without the profitability of agriculture we will not have security of supply, and without profitable agriculture we will not have the opportunity for farmers to take those environmental measures, climate wisdom, if the account is red, otherwise we will not succeed. That is why I think this is very important. Fourth point: the balance of the market. It is very important that the market also works fairly, fairly, and as a proportion of the value added that farmers make, the best raw materials in the world when they produce, the compensation must also be provided so that it is profitable. Those are the most important things we have here. This also affects how we do generational changes, and this also involves what was asked about the continuation of LUTU, i.e. the continuation of the abandonment aid. We need a continuation of LUTU and together we will consider the mechanism through which it comes, taking into account the State aid guidelines we have, and how we can reconcile these with the current LUTU, the tails of which are, of course, still there. It's really, really important. And so does this, how we encourage the climate wisdom, energy efficiency and so on, to reduce the nutrient load and so on: there is a nutrient cycle allowance that we are preparing for. It is one important thing, biogas second, gypsum issues, gypsum treatments that have now come into the picture. There are different new cultivation technologies. There are also strong new starting points on the seed side, i.e. a versatile package exists and is coming from these things. Well, then a lot of people asked about the beasts and the white cheek geese. The wolf’s stock management target is that in a year’s time, we will have a strain management hunt. I am very concerned about the current situation. We saw, as Mr Hänninen has pointed out here: we have now been denied a reasoned authorisation, the administrative court denied the legitimate authorisation granted by the Game Centre for the removal of the wolf pack. This is now an example of the need for us to do this work carefully, so that it will also be able to withstand any judicial review, because it will in any case be appealed against. That is why it takes time enough for us to have it here in about a year's time. White-cheese goose: I absolutely believe that all the measures proposed by the white-cheek goose must be taken. And just as it was said, now is the time for action. The experiments have now been tried, and they must become a species to be hunted, and white cheek geese must also be used as food. It's definitely that appreciation of the game, too. It's the ethics that we're also involved in. Well, then on the fishing side: the very worrying issue is this coastal fishing. That is why we are preparing a programme to promote domestic fish, which involves these issues, which Mrs Myllykoski and several of you have raised, including Norrback. This also includes the compensation there is. We must find a solution to this, and that is what we are now looking for. The issue of the capitalisation of sugar: we need a long-term approach to this, and now we are thinking about how to develop Makera, and the money is now being secured for it. The research cannot be overemphasized, its importance. It has something to do with this, for example, a representative. I would like to draw attention to those research results on peat fields, which were somewhat different from what we have seen in public lately. This is the job we need. This is a good example of that. And then the turpentine and pick-up trucks from abroad: This cannot be the way we increase energy self-sufficiency and security of supply in Finland. [Right : Onse! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u212	Thank you, and let us go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u213	Mr President! Thank you very much to Minister Lepä for his successful work in agriculture, forestry and rural areas. It is great that the national total funding for agriculture has been secured and that there is a stable outlook for the future. This multi-annual EU financial framework and its solution will provide farmers and primary producers with a stable outlook for the future. It is also good that this is a way of investing in the resilience of the food system and in the security of supply in our country, but also in biodiversity. I am pleased that the Committee on Finance is proposing an additional EUR 300000 for the 4H organisation. 4H activities are increasingly the only hobby of a child or young person in sparsely populated rural areas close to their own home. 4H activities also support the employment and entrepreneurship of young people by exploiting the potential of nature and rural areas. Every year, thousands of young people receive employment through 4H activities, either through a contract of employment or as self-employed persons. This is a great thing. Some plant seedlings to reach 10,000 hectares of new forest by 2030. Satoheroes-berry trade employs almost 500 young people a year. In the nines-to-work model, some 45% of the 6000 young people received a summer job or employed themselves as an entrepreneur last summer despite this exceptional situation of interest rate. The 4H activities have long roots. Associations were established already in the mid-1920s, and this rural activity has also expanded into urban areas and urban youth work. In terms of content, this activity can be applied in rural areas as well as in urban areas. I myself have been given 4H as a mentor and advisor. I am very glad that 4H has also taken up the circular economy theme, because it is responsible work for the future. I am pleased that this funding is still significant, but I hope that it will be so permanent that the Committee on Budgets will not have to complete it in future. I also welcome this support from the village shops. In the budget, the Government has proposed 2 million for this whole, for village development, and the aim of the appropriation is to continue supporting village shops. This central action supports the vitality of rural areas, which has been further highlighted by the interest rate. As diversity grows, village shops can recover into a whole new glory. Many Finns want to live in many places, sometimes also in the middle of nature in rural areas, and village shops are needed. This is also where the parliamentary working group in the sparsely populated region is looking for new openings in areas such as wilderness tourism and food tourism, and in this way is looking for new ways to develop a multi-seat Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u214	Mr President! In this context, when dealing with the section of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, it should be noted that the outlook and future for the development of agriculture and forestry are brighter than it was some time ago. Mr Marin and Mr Leppä, the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, succeeded well in the negotiations that ensured the multiannual financial framework of the European Union, thanks for that. In the budget debate, the government decided to reserve national development funds for 2021 to 2027. Some EUR 8 billion was earmarked for national funding for agriculture and rural development, of which EUR 65 million is from the Agricultural Development Fund based on earlier decisions. Mr President! I, too, am concerned about the decline in the profitability of agriculture. In its report, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry points out a study by Pellervo's financial research institute, in which the agricultural sector is estimated to be about one third weaker in 2021 than ten years ago, when entrepreneurial income totalled almost EUR 1.5 billion. In turn, the Natural Resources Centre estimates that entrepreneurial income will remain at the 2019 level in 2020, i.e. EUR 15500, once the smallest premises have been left out of the calculation. In 2017, the corresponding entrepreneurial income was EUR 17400 per enterprise. Increasing fluctuations in input and output prices and poor yields have brought with them liquidity problems and consequently debt and solvency problems. Moreover, the average profitability of companies has not been improved by the increase in the size of the farm and by the investments made. The Committee stresses that aid constitutes a stable and predictable component of agriculture, accounting for around 32% of total agricultural output in recent years. It is therefore to be welcomed that the solution to the multiannual financial framework of the European Union guarantees a stable outlook for agriculture. Some EUR 5.3 million is proposed for the development of rural livelihoods, which corresponds to the level of the 2020 actual budget. The interest rate epidemic has strengthened interest in rural areas and the increase in telework has reduced the threshold for moving to the country. The activities of local village associations and the information they provide about the region support the repatriation and increase the vitality of rural areas. The committee will add EUR 300000 to this item for the assistance of the local authorities. It is a great thing that support has been provided for village shops to continue. In its budget, the government has presented the village shops as multi-service centres, and an appropriation of EUR 2 million is allocated to this whole. There is also a need for ground-based shops, and what is more comfortable than having mail and similar services under the same roof. The Centre thanks the other government parties for their sympathy, because it is these concrete measures that support the vitality of the countryside. The interest-rate crisis has stimulated multi-spatiality and migration to less populated areas. Although exceptional time has speeded up broadband construction projects, where working, studying and online shopping are even more successful than living at the heart of the city, village shops are needed on land. Mr President! As much as the corona has caused concern and grief, it has also clarified the issues of security of supply and the duration of the crisis that the centre has defended in both good and bad times. As we saw last spring, not all countries have national self-sufficiency at a level as good as ours. In Sweden, for example, the self-sufficiency rate is 60 when it is 80 in Finland. We have grain and other necessary stocks in place, but it would be good to have a parliamentary debate in place for how long. Personally, I would like to have answers to at least the following questions: how can we be as proud of the food produced here in Finland as the French, German and Italians are, and how can we support the Finnish primary producer in order to be able to do his job?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u215	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Leppä for the very good work he has done on the defence of fish stocks and, for example, for the fact that at last there has been misreporting in Poland and, as it were, the crossing of stocks has been brought under control and sanctioned so that it does not happen again. On the other hand, it will, of course, make it possible for more fishing to be carried out in other countries throughout the Baltic Sea basin, even though we still have many stocks which are very endangered and we must continue to work towards this. Finland has done a good job there, and for that I thank you. However, I think that leisure fishing is a form of leisure activity that could play an even greater role in Finland, for example, now in terms of tourism and vitality in Northern Finland, and I think it is also important that Finland does everything possible to ensure that endangered fish stocks are no longer endangered but viable. It still requires action not only at international level, but also in Finland, so that, for example, efforts are still being made to break down the barriers to the rise of fish. Sometimes it can be done without disadvantages, such as in Vantaa, when we partially dismantled the old unused power plant from there, and although many people thought this city culture might be annoying, so when you go to look at that place it has not become worse but is very good-looking, and there the fish are now able to rise freely and have already started spawning in the river. This can help to improve the state of fish stocks even in municipal decision-making. Mr President! I would have drawn Minister Leppa's attention to the current reform of the Land Use and Building Law, although it is not in your administrative sector. I am a little concerned that this legislative reform is now aimed at meeting all kinds of needs, such as private business, forestry and agriculture, and bringing into it issues which I do not believe are covered by its legislation. It is clear that biodiversity must be taken care of, or, for example, that urban centres are being developed closely, but we have our own instruments and instruments for these, and I would like the Minister to tell us his own position on what comes under this legislation. Have you had a discussion with the Ministry of the Environment about the preparation of this law?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u216	Mr President! The profitability of Finnish agriculture has continued to be difficult. Although the size of agricultural holdings has grown rapidly — at the beginning of the EU period there were about 110,000 farms in Finland, we are now going to go below 50,000 — yet the economic results have deteriorated from the turn of the millennium to the last few years. A slight correction has been made, but this does not solve the profitability problem. We don't know what the effects of the interest rate are yet. The value of domestic food is likely to have increased and the importance of security of supply is understood. Let's hope so. However, the product itself is crucial for the future of food production. There is a lot of talk here about this functioning of the food chain and whether these parts of the chain are talking with each other, but the very key element is the price of the product, which of course must also be supplemented by the way in which it is built. Building export opportunities when this corona is overcome will certainly be key factors. It makes it possible for the food industry to do better, and then inevitably means that there must be a growing slice for the producer at the other end of the chain. Mr President! Just a few more words about the forest, let's skip on. A few years ago, the forest law was reformed. It took place between 2014 and 2015, and the Coalition Party was the most important political party behind the Forest Act. The law was prepared and finalised under the leadership of Minister Jari Koskinen and Petteri Orpo. Jari Leppä, then chairman of the committee, was also involved, and I acknowledge the good support for the construction of this forest law. I would like to say here that the Forest Act is the line of the forest policy of the Coalition Party — clearly it is the line of the forest policy of the Coalition Party. The law combines sustainable forest management and the freedom of forest owners to decide on the forest they own. The Coalition Party supports the diverse use of forests. It is based on systematic forest management that has begun in the 19th century, which has made our forests grow more than ever. The forest law adopted then in 2014 allows the choice of forest farming method to be freely chosen. That's the new thing. In the past, if you had been engaged in continuous education, you would have been attacked by the Forest Center and Ukaas. In other words, this possibility of continuous forest management methods came from 2014 to 15. Its idea was that it complements the range of equals. This is the spirit of the forest law. There are many benefits to continuous farming: the high costs of reform measures are avoided and the forest remains largely covered. Good things, but I would stress that there would be problems — probably more seasonally in the forest sector, replacing new fellings with picklings would move fellings in lush areas for the winter season, in order to avoid harvesting damage — many problems. That is why it makes more sense to talk about a whole where the solution best suited to the forest site and the objectives of the forest owner is chosen. The citizens' initiative before Parliament proposes a ban on open logging in the state forests. This proposal is not to be welcomed but problematic. If implemented, the initiative would reduce the supply of wood in Finland. That's just the way it is. Mr President! It is important that forests are discussed in Finland, but even in the forest debate there is reason to separate the forest from the trees. Within the framework of this current forest law, we can form a broad package in which we can perfectly reconcile the needs of forest owners, industry and biodiversity conservation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u217	Mr President! As can be seen from the Government's proposal, the importance of the basic tasks of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in the administrative sector has been emphasised in the context of the corona crisis. The debate on security of supply has also raised its head as a result of increased overall uncertainty as a result of the interest rate. Last spring we discovered that each country is in a tight position to pursue its own interests. Finland must understand the spirit of the game. With regard to security of supply, we cannot rely on the fact that the EU will help. When Finland is in crisis, there is a high probability that the rest of the EU region will be in trouble. Then the help will be tight. States must be able to develop their own capacity to respond to a wide range of threats. Ensuring food supply is an essential part of security of supply. As you look at the development of Finnish agriculture in recent decades and world events, there is inevitably concern about the development of security of supply in food production. However, we must remember that the situation in Finland is considerably better than in our neighbouring country, Sweden, for example, but we still have to make a policy that strengthens the operating conditions of domestic food producers and not the other way around. The traditional forest sector has been an important part of our country's economy for a long time. The value of exports in the forest industry was EUR 12.5 billion in 2019, and the sector accounts for approximately 20 per cent of Finland's export revenue. It also has a major employment impact, especially in regions where jobs may otherwise be under the rock. The Government Programme's objective of carbon neutrality by 2035 is particularly relevant to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. This draft budget is already strongly reflected in the EU financial framework decision agreed last summer and in the Union's direction towards the common agricultural policy. Although the government promises that the economic growth and employment created by the agricultural and forestry sector will be taken into account, very dark clouds are floating around the administrative sector. The government promises solutions to the use of renewable resources even for innovations that do not exist. Should we not honestly call these uncertain assumptions? The promises made by the Marin Government on the future of the bio- and circular economy do not create faith for those rural traders from whom the government's policy is taking bread out of the table. In addition, the EU's common green agricultural policy, together with the reduction of subsidies, is also a threat to Finnish agriculture. The outcome of the 1990s membership negotiations showed that the EU does not take sufficient account of the challenges posed by Finland’s climate and soil. The basic problem of Finnish producers is a difficult competitive position in the common food market in the EU region. Not all Member States comply with the common rules of the game. According to the rule book, playing Finland suffers from this. In this situation, the profitability of domestic production should be promoted by all means, but instead the government is making more and more effort on the part of the rural business community. Peat production is on the way to the ground, although peat covers about 5% of total energy consumption and the elimination of peat production has much wider consequences than the shortage of energy production. No one has had a viable and economic option to replace peat, for example, as a litter or as a growth base. Peat forms a livelihood for many people and brings heat to numerous Finnish homes. If the use of peat is quickly driven down, there will be huge unemployment, bankruptcy and financial losses that simply cannot be afforded during the interest period. The impact of government policy has already been reflected, for example, in the availability of peat, even though the measures aimed at rooting down peat are only at the beginning. The basic tasks of the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry are to ensure a competitive domestic food system and security of supply, to secure clean water, to manage animal and plant diseases, and to develop the natural resource economy and to ensure the competitiveness of the industries based on them. Securing rural livelihoods also means ensuring the vitality of rural areas. Oversized environmental objectives threaten the achievement of the above-mentioned tasks. Domestic work and entrepreneurship must now be supported by all means, and Finland must ensure self-sufficiency in food production. Mr President! Finally, the representative: Kivisaari does deliberately distort the words of the chairman of the Finnish people when it comes to support policy. The purpose for us Finns is that we would like the Finnish farmer to get along with his own work and be proud of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u219	Mr President! The importance of basic agricultural and forestry tasks has been emphasised during the crisis, as has been said many times today. Awareness and risks of food, energy and supply security have also increased. I think we all have concerns in this Chamber about the prospects for agriculture and rural areas. It is important in a big picture to ensure the competitiveness, development and employment of agriculture as well as the vitality of the sector. I personally believe that, with climate objectives, clean food and the environment will be a major competitive asset for the Finnish agricultural and forestry sector in the future. This will continue to require strong financial support, but to a progressive extent also investment in research, training and the introduction of new production and innovation methods in the sector. The current level of rural development money is important and the leverage effect of money is many times greater. It is also important that: The resources of the Natural Resources Centre are sufficient because research information is of great importance in support of the sector and of our decision-making. Tools are indeed needed when it is known that the entrepreneurial income of the agricultural sector has fallen for the last ten years. A few withdrawals from the budget. I am particularly pleased that the recovery programme for migratory fish can continue and with more significant efforts than in the past: EUR 12 million. In North Karelia we have a model example, Laurinvirta, an area of 7 hectares, for which two and a half million euros were set for renovation together with business life and the state. It was even selected as a construction site for North Karelia in 2020. Similarly, the Saramo River of Nurmes, which Minister Leppä was doing well to inaugurate, where the first small-scale power plant will be dismantled with the rise of lake salmon. These have enabled this State aid to be granted. These are also of great importance to tourism in the provinces, and tourism and leisure fishing go through growth figures when you follow, quite a lot hand in hand, and it is then reflected as a significant increase in fishing permits. All we have to do now is to ensure that resources continue to be available for advice on fishing as well as for teaching. I would like to comment on major anti-fraud policy in the debate. It is great that things are moving forward, and indeed, the time for experimentation is now over. In particular, the wolf has become a nuisance to rural and urban backyards. The garden wolf phenomenon is today — this cannot continue. It must be recognised that the management of stocks and the daily lives of people in rural areas and the conditions for living and the pursuit of economic activities in rural areas must be addressed and that the right to hunt must be limited by some means to predators. We must genuinely hear the voices of the provinces. Mr President! For Finland, bread will continue to come in large part from natural resources. It is important that we are able to develop new innovations in the forest industry and support its growth through national forestry policy, which does not build conflicts with conservation and climate objectives. We can't afford that. It is also important that Finnish forest ownership remains in Finnish hands and forest policy remains in Finnish hands. Active forestry will continue to be our strength in the future, and with our own efforts we will also be able to increase our forest resources, as well as carbon sinks, as an example of the new afforestation aid for wasteland areas. Well, then to this energy policy, which I was also telling you about in that debate. Indeed, I am behind the decisions that have been taken with regard to peat, but this surprised us all. Now we really need to think about what will then ensure the need for growth peat and the need for peat for livestock farming, activated carbon production and security of supply. It is also urgent to consider how the future vision of the peat industry and the future of jobs and businesses can be supported together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u220	Thank you. — Representative Harjanne — absent. One last speaker will now take the floor at this stage of the debate, and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u221	Mr President! Primary production, i.e. agriculture, forestry and fisheries, accounts for around 4% of GDP, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry accounts for about four fifths of the country's area. In other words, agriculture and forestry have a much greater impact on the harvest, climate, water bodies, relative economic size. For decades, the development of these sectors has been seen primarily as a financial result, but increasing attention must be paid to reducing environmental damage in the future. Additional funds for climate action and research in these areas, both in committee and already in the government's proposal, are very welcome. In its opinion on the budget, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry notes the need to build a climate-proof food system. More than half of the climate emissions from agriculture come from peat-based fields, although they are only one-ninth of the fields, and compared to transport, for example, these emissions represent three-quarters of transport emissions. The most urgent climate action in agriculture is therefore to stop clearing new peat fields. Very encouraging are the results of so-called carbon farming, or the development of cultivation, by increasing the carbon content of the field. After all, in conventional farming the carbon content of the field is decreasing year by year. Congressman Pitko talked about win-win strategies at the debat. That's what carbon farming is. It improves soil fertility and at the same time helps both the climate and water bodies. One quarter of Finland's forests are swamp forests. The way they are handled must also be developed. Whether open fellings are good or bad is currently the subject of heated controversy, but the results of the research suggest that at least open fellings in peatland forests should be stopped or at least significantly reduced. At the same time, the need for so-called rehabilitation drainage and the very large discharges from it would be eliminated. Mr President! Finland should also pay more attention to changes in consumer choice than has been the case so far. More and more consumers want to eat sustainably in terms of climate, harvest and animal welfare. One of the key issues here is plant-based protein products. If we replace even part of animal nutrition with plant proteins, it is the quickest way to reduce the ecological footprint of our food, its impact on both the climate and water bodies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u222	In view of Mr Essayah's timetable, he will be given a brief speech on this. He said that it would be necessary to speak now before the matter was suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u223	Thank you very much, Speaker! Indeed, while the minister is still here, I would have liked to raise a few questions. First of all, it could be said that this swine fever, which has been combated by the ministry and has been well-worked and connected to that EU level, is now moving in Ostrobothnia such urban rumours that pork is being imported to Finland from Germany. I don't know if it's for feed, or if it's really for human consumption. Now I would ask the Minister to update this information. It is then hoped that this Food Commissioner will start to make a strong use of his voice on the issues of agricultural profitability. It's been a little quiet, though, and let's hope it gets better. In this matter of peat, I will not go any further than by asking the Minister: would it be possible now to increase Kemera support strongly in order to get the care of young seedlings in order? In this situation it would be possible to help now, because at the moment in Finland we do not have the right timber flows if we have timber to burn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u224	Thank you for your succinct speech. — Minister Leppä, please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the good questions and incentives. Just a few more answers. Here, a great many of you raised the issue of food exports. It is also on the government's agenda, still developing exports, and it is true that there is certainly not all the power out there, but it should be noted that even now, even in the corona era, our exports have increased in terms of food. It has not diminished, it has grown. We're on a good road, but we need power. They'll admit it and they'll be looking for it. Forest damage: it is extremely important to keep forests healthy, and they remain healthy by using them, taking care of them on time and choosing management measures according to their forests and not prohibiting certain specific measures. Peat: In any case, we need peat in litter, substrates, biocarbon and other new products. That is what we want to ensure, and that is what we are working on. With different measures, we need to get to this. It's all clear. This also plays a major role in animal health, in the limited use of medicines and so on. Then, the fact that the objective of carbon neutrality would be in some way incompatible with the natural resource sector: No, it's not. It's the other way around. The natural resource sector is the solution — it is the solution. Without the natural resources sector, the sustainable use of natural resources, there is nothing we can do to achieve this objective of carbon neutrality. It is a sector of solutions, a sector of the future, and I therefore strongly encourage this sector. The Finnish horse: We have a duty to preserve the versatility and diversity of the Finnish horse, just as Mr Meri said here. This is our joint task. It must also be sufficiently extensive in processing, otherwise it will wither, it is quite clear. We're looking for ways to do this, and we have ways to do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u230	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u231	The general debate on Section 30, which was interrupted earlier in this plenary session, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u232	Mr President! Defending Finnish rural and rural activities is sometimes a challenge. Finns do appreciate domestic food and enjoy summer cottages, but in decision-making it is too often other things that come first. The price of domestic food may sometimes be higher, and therefore too often a foreign option is chosen. Others say that domestic agriculture would not receive aid, but that it would have to be done on its own without aid from the cane. Of course, it is not worth growing everything in the Finnish climate, but foreign imports also have their place in the food chain. Similarly, domestic food has an opportunity on the export market. The advantages of Finland are food quality, cleanliness and safety and, of course, good knowledge. However, Finland is not an agriculturally hostile country for its climate. We'll be fine. We'll be fine. We'll be fine on our own. I regard domestic agriculture as a priority in the interests of security of supply and food safety. Domestic agriculture will not survive if farmers do not have the chance to succeed. For these same reasons, agriculture is supported around the world. President! Finland is a large and sparsely populated country. We may not have huge deposits of diamonds, but our nature is rich in many ways. In exploiting the forest, we're the best in the world. We take advantage of the wood in many ways. Nevertheless, the number of trees in the forest continues to grow thanks to good forest management. Just the cleanliness of nature and caring for it is a wealth for us. According to statistics, more than 7 million visits were made in the state protected areas managed by Metsähallitus in 2019. Finland’s nature and natural wealth are not taken care of in cities, but work is done in rural areas by rural people. Keeping the whole country inhabited and caring for the infrastructure of the whole country makes it possible to exploit the wealth of the whole country. Finland needs rural areas and cities, agriculture and industry. It is important for people to be able to choose their own place of residence. President! It is understood in rural areas that services are further away, and they understand why prices are higher than in rural areas. The opportunity to choose for yourself where one lives must also be one of the most important sources of happiness. The Government has decided to allocate nearly EUR 8 billion to national funding for agriculture and rural development between 21 and 27 years. This money really goes to the right place and the right need.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u233	Mr President! After Mr Kivisaari's speech, it must be said that there are other parties and other representatives than those from the Central Party who recognise the need to colonise Finland as a whole and also value rural areas, both living and working in rural areas, absolutely. I, who am from the capital region, have constantly spoken that it is most reasonable for the capital region to have all the functions, economic activities, administrative activities that are not necessary to be located here in the capital region located elsewhere in Finland, and it makes sense to support that they take place elsewhere in Finland than here. It is not reasonable for everyone to live in one area in Finland. We have a large country with an exceptionally large surface area, and it is reasonable that we support keeping the country alive throughout Finland, both rural areas and urban areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u234	Mr President! This time and place surprised us all, but as we know, we are living in extraordinary times. Normally, this speech would be taken as late hours of the night, but perhaps because of the corona and the enthusiasm of the representatives, it is time for the speech. To remind everyone, of course, that this long tradition has already begun in 1983, when Mr Roos raised this important issue. Much has been said in the agricultural and forestry section about different issues and about different fauna, but this time too, unfortunately, the spawn has been forgotten. We must remember, therefore, that the goats, the goats, in this exceptional year, have also shown themselves in an exceptional way. In Wales, for example, where severe restrictive measures were put in place, the goats took over the city. Similar is the need and relief that the spawns have brought to people’s everyday lives from beyond the oceans in the United States. It is now very popular with kuttu therapy. People have sought closeness to the spawn, the spawn has been brought to the birthday party, the spawn has been spent with the spawns, and I hope that in these difficult corona times when we live, the spawn could bring even more relief to people's everyday lives. In my opinion, there is far too little talk of spawning, and some of them are evenlittled. It is good that the government partners should also support this idea here. Mr President! Board of Directors of Marin
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u237	Thank you, Mr Ovaska! — I'm sure no one has anything to add to this. — Oh, Mr Pierainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u238	Mr President! I don't think I'm going to make a point of saying it right now, but that's where I was going on other business, so I slipped away from that speech. However, I was thinking of raising the importance of that peat when there has been a great deal of talk about it, above all with regard to energy peat, but also with regard to the fact that when the agricultural section is concerned, agriculture needs dry peat. That is why it is important for us to be able to obtain it, and it is also good to secure access to growth peat, and why not even to energy peat. It went down too quickly now, and I hope that the government will think about the tax step in that, the peat tax, that it would not be so much of a burden at the outset, and then give industry and others who use it for heating more time to react to the fact that we can then move forward and that jobs and businesses will remain in Finland. This is indeed a very important issue, the loss of jobs and so on. President! Here's a comment on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u239	I would like to thank Mr Ovaska for this speech, which he has just made. It is great that there are some traditions in this Parliament, and one tradition is that this debate in the agricultural and forestry section should end with this speech. It did not end now, but it ended with thanks to Mr Ovaska — this is not, by the way, the first time you have talked about these fibres here. — And every time this comes, it will raise the mood, and it is always delightful to see that the opposition is also in favour of the Government Party's speech on this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u240	Mr President! Indeed, the old traditions that have left the SDP and what the centre has continued in Pirkanmaa — it is a valuable tradition. On top of this, it would be a bit of a shame to speak, but when we have started here, of course, I would like to say a few more words about the matter of the day. So this is where Pieline brought up the meaning of peat. Indeed, it is important to consider at the moment whether we all have an up-to-date picture of how many peat is. If we think of Finland’s top foods that can be taken to the world, then their starting point, this secret weapon, is peat. So for broiler growing and meat steak growing, our dry peat is absolutely absolute for its antiseptic effects and others, the same growing peat. At this point, in the agricultural section, there was also a distribution of funds for association activities, which is very important for our voluntary activities, for example, because the interest rate has caused people to want to come to the country, which is indeed a good thing. In this regard, the Finnish Villages Association was allocated an appropriation to promote this diversity. Another very good target for money is then 4H, the balance sheet of which was strengthened, for example, for seedlings. It's a very good thing about our climate. With these speeches, but as a former speaker in Pirkanmaa, I would like to thank our representative, Mr Ovaska, for this fine speech. Indeed, with these words, the centre and probably all our representatives in the Chamber and the Parliament wish the change of speakers well for Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u241	It was nice to listen to that spawning talk on television.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u242	Presentation of Section 26 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior At this stage, 1.5 hours will be reserved for the general discussion in the section. Mr Vähämäki, President of the Section.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u243	Honorable Speaker! I would now like to present the section president's contribution to the budget report on the administrative sector of the SM. This administrative sector will receive 48 million more than in the current year and around 80 million more than in the 2019 budget. A total of 1576 million will be allocated to this administrative sector. The Committee notes that significant increases have therefore been made in the administrative sector. The investment level of Senate real estate has also been raised to 480 million, which allows for the implementation of premises projects. The committee is concerned about the growing ict expenditure in the administrative sector and notes that these should be taken into account in the future. There are four key elements in the section. The first is the operational expenditure of the police, which is set at EUR 798 million. That is just under 36 million more than the budget proposal for the current year. In line with the spending limits decision, an increase of 10 million will be made in the capacity of the police. It is used, among other things, for vehicle investments. There is an increase of 4.1 million over the spending limits. It strengthens the capacity of the police to prevent, inter alia, trafficking in human beings, child abuse, the prevention of online fraud and drug trafficking, and also to increase surveillance and alert activities on the ground. The committee believes that the increases granted will enable the level of 7450 policemen and the level of 7500 person-years set by the government to be reached in the coming years. The committee raises the issue of preventive action, which strengthens confidence in the police and society on a wider scale. We highlight the active police activity of the Helsinki Police Department in the suburbs. With regard to minors, we are concerned, and police matters relating to them should be focused on one researcher, and we should also keep in touch after the pre-trial investigation. The committee adds 600000 to the police expenditure, divided into three items, such as animal police, situation pictures and the purchase of transport equipment. With regard to the operational expenditure of the protection police, we are raising the issue of the new house and its mandate. This was done in the fourth additional budget for the current year. The Government's proposal provides a good basis for the long-term development of the protection police, taking into account the requirements of civil intelligence law. A total of 272 million is proposed for the operations of the Border Guard. That's 27 million more than this year. In this context, we should be grateful for all the work and flexibility they have done over the past year. The staff is really stretched out there. More than one third have worked at a new establishment or point. The Government will add to the operating expenditure and to meet the requirements for international tasks the spending limits decision will add to the 21st year, and the committee will consider the proposed increases to be necessary. They significantly improve the economic situation and enable the inclusion of three real estate projects, Immola, Ivalo and Onttola, in the Senate Real Estate Investment Plan. With regard to procurement, the committee raises the issue of the purchase of ships in the form of additional budgets. 125 million have been granted, and the total cost of purchasing two new ships is 245 million. With regard to emergency services and emergency services, it is noted that an increase in both operational expenditure is made in relation to the current year. The minimum level of personnel of the Emergency Response Centre has been set at 600 person-years. Attention should be paid to the well-being of the staff and the absence of emergency services should be reduced. Immigration and reception centre activities: 67 million will be presented here. Here's an increase of 12 million. This will enable faster processing times and the recruitment of 70 people, among other things. The committee considers these additions to be good and, at the same time, it responds to the criticisms received from the High Court for exceeding the time limits. A total of 104 million, or just under 13 million more than this year, will be presented to the reception of refugees. At the beginning of October, there were 6,785 applications. Some applicants have either appealed the decision to administrative courts or submitted a new application after having received a negative decision. The committee raises the issue of improving the cost-effectiveness of reception activities. The committee also notes that a smooth and high-quality licensing process and the decision-making of administrative courts will reduce the cost of reception. In conclusion, the committee will insist on the long-term budgeting of the administrative sector of the SM over the parliamentary term in future budgetary plans.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u244	Secretary Ohio, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u245	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the committee for adding EUR 600000 to the police for the above-mentioned animal protection police work and for developing the situation picture of cybercrime. The budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior for 2021 will increase by a total of EUR 48 million compared to the actual budget for 2020. This increase is important for the security of all of us but does not solve the financial challenges facing the internal security actors. As far as the police are concerned, I would particularly like to highlight an important addition to strengthening the fight against trafficking in human beings, so that this serious crime can be combated more effectively. Trafficking in human beings is a flagrant violation of fundamental and human rights, so it is important that it is also addressed with sufficient grounds and resources. The fight against trafficking in human beings also improves the competitive position of honest businesses vis-à-vis their illegal competitors. Further resources will also be allocated next year to increase the security of sparsely populated areas, cybercrime and the renewal of the police’s interception system. Even in sparsely populated areas, we must be able to rely on the fact that when there is greatest distress, there is also assistance available everywhere. There will be significant additional funding for securing the operational activities of the police and the Border Guard in 2021, which will safeguard the critical performance of the authorities in many respects in a challenging operating environment. I also think it is important that the administrative establishment projects continue to be carried out in a planned manner next year and in line with the plans already made. Authorities must have healthy, safe and appropriate facilities. However, staff is our most important resource in this sector and, as the representative said above, I would also like to thank the staff for a very difficult year and for the fine work they have done for each of us. As far as immigration is concerned, the budget includes funding to increase the refugee quota to 1050 persons. In addition, a small increase in the budget will safeguard the important functioning of the system of assistance to victims of trafficking in human beings. Once the resources have been put in place on the police side, it is to be expected that victims who need support will also appear and that people will have to receive the help they need. The Finnish Immigration Service will receive funding for the dismantling of congestion in work and study-based residence permit applications, automation development and the UMA system next year. The additions support the objective of faster processing times and smoother processes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u246	That is how, and now we are going to start the debate, and those Members who wish to use the reply in the debate can stand up and ask for answers with the V button. Debatin begins with Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u247	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. A worrying feature of Finnish immigration policy has become, particularly this period, that the distinction between legal and illegal immigration and residence is to be eliminated. This goes against a lot of people's sense of justice. In the case of an asylum seeker who has been found not to be in need of international protection but could still remain in the country, many people feel that such an asylum system is not really credible — and when it is carried out only in certain countries in this way. But not only do you want a work permit, services, various treatments and social security for illegal residents, but you have now also said that you want a firewall. However, most countries and the EU have stressed that the credibility of the asylum system and the acceptance of citizens require a negative asylum decision to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u248	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for the presentation of the budget and the representative Down the hill, too. Roses to the government can be given to strengthen police resources, among other things, as proposed by the Assembly, and to focus on these specific problem areas, such as trafficking in human beings and economic crime and online crime. However, it has been said that about 8,000 police are needed and, before the elections, all parties committed themselves to raising the number of police posts to 7850. I understand that the party represented by the Minister was also involved in this commitment, but that is not what you have done. I would like to ask how this figure will be achieved now that all the parties are ready for it. At the moment, the government's performance reaches 7,500 man-years by the police, and this still needs to be updated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u249	Mr President! This corona crisis has highlighted in particular the importance of our health care staff and their work during this period, but at the same time the work of the authorities in the security sector is also particularly important, and thanks to the government and the Minister for the Interior that it has been decided to invest in the resources of the police and security authorities as well. In particular, it is important to focus on the fight against trafficking in human beings already mentioned and the fight against the shadow economy during this period. We know that provisions relating to immigration policy also have an impact on the fight against trafficking in human beings as a phenomenon. I would like to take, for example, the question of availability and the examples that have been obtained from Sweden, where access testing has been abolished. As a result, it is seen that trafficking in human beings and the various forms of exploitation of the labour market have also increased. I would like to ask the Minister: the government will stick to this,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u250	Mr President! The Government Programme clearly stated that the less well-serviced police service areas should also be strengthened. In practice, that would mean re-emerging so-called cold stations. The maximum response times specified in the Government Programme have been agreed for the police’s alarm missions, which in turn guide the deployment of the 300 field police officers agreed in the Government Programme in the weakest areas. However, it seems that instead of the police services in sparsely populated areas, additional police resources have largely been directed to the Police Government moving to Espoo and the Central Criminal Police in Vantaa. I would like to ask the Minister how much of the agreed additional resources for 300 field police will be allocated to the HAMAs? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u251	Madam President! It is indeed important that the police budget is increased, especially now that we are considering the end of this regime: it seems that there is a reduction in the number at present. But on another matter, sexual and sexual abuse crimes against children: we have usually had a situation where if the child is the perpetrator, the police investigation will be accelerated. Could we think, and could the Minister also consider a guarantee of investigation in the future that, when the victim is a child or a young person, a guarantee would be made, in a way, that the investigation would take place, even in the course of six months? Then, Mr President, this promotion of international recruitment: Company growth and the remuneration of experts must not be caught up in the rigidity and slowness of licensing processes. The Coalition Party has suggested that such a good employer's certificate should be introduced, which would enable the granting of work permits more quickly to companies,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u252	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for the introduction and for the good work. The Government Programme aims to ensure that Finland is a secure rule of law in which the security feeling is strengthened and the capacity of the security authorities is ensured, and this work is now being done with this budget by strengthening the resources of the internal security actors. One of the negative consequences of the interest rate, which is regrettable, is the increase in domestic and intimate violence. In addition to the police budget, it is important that we increase EUR 0.8 million in the fight against violence against women, including by increasing shelters. In recent times serious concerns have also been raised about the serious crimes committed by minors, and this needs to be addressed quickly by stepping up cross-sectoral cooperation between authorities and strengthening measures to prevent the exclusion of young people. I would have asked the Minister about these: how do you see the situation of preventive and preventive resources in the police action at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u253	Mr President! Under the Government Programme, progress is being made, the number of police officers is being increased, and, of course, thanks can be mentioned again. Now, thanks can be given in particular to the human trafficking unit, which is capable of tackling serious human rights violations. Furthermore, thanks can also be given for increasing the presence of the police in sparsely populated areas, as colleagues have already mentioned. But the number of policemen is not only enough, it is also necessary to ensure that the police have knowledge and, as we know, the environment of the police is constantly changing and the world is constantly in turmoil. Cybercrime and cybercrime are increasing, and criminal activity is very international today. This means, of course, that the police also need demanding special expertise from both the police and other specialist experts. I would now like to ask the Minister how to ensure that the level of competence is in line with the current needs of the police.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u254	Mr President! Internal security is something that we must take care of under all circumstances. Police resources are often the first to emerge in the speeches. It is good that additional resources have been allocated to that side of the budget, but there is still a long way to go to the objectives set by the Administrative Committee. They must continue to be pursued. In its own alternative budget, the Coalition Party proposes a permanent increase of EUR 40 million in the police action. But the question of resources isn't just about the police. Rescue services have the best reputation and reliability of public administration organisations for the second year in a row, the Emergency Response Centre Institute ranked third in this recent reputational survey. However, the social security reform threatens to leave the rescue services in the position of the cuckoo when the funding has not been earmarked. Similarly, emergency centre operations are critical to ensuring adequate resources for both staff and information systems. Adequate resources must ensure the security of the safety authorities so that confidence in these operators that guarantee our security continues to be high.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u255	Mr President! In the report by the Administrative Committee on the expulsion of sexual offenders of foreign origin from Finland, our group set a few practical examples. Could the Minister take account of the fact that we could work in line with EU law? The status of international protection could be removed from a person who is reasonably presumed to be a danger to Finland’s security or who has committed a serious crime during his stay in Finland, and a person who has been ordered to be returned as a result of a criminal sanction could be immediately detained and a person convicted of a serious crime such as sexual offences could never receive Finnish citizenship. There would be three very good ways to ensure the safety of Finns, and I would stress that these proposals, which I have mentioned above, are in the process of being implemented under European Union law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u256	Madam President! When you think about these security issues, it starts with the call to the emergency center and the help to move and get the whole process moving and moving forward. What is currently visible in the operation of the Emergency Response Centre is that more resources are needed and they have been tried to target it. It is an important part of this security environment. What is still a little worried about in this situation is the adequacy of the number of police officers in these few areas, as far as the north is concerned, the fewer the police are. My question now is: how can we ensure that sufficient security is put in place here in the few regions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u257	Madam President! In recent years, terrible crimes have been committed in Finland — children and adults have been raped, ex-girlfriends have been killed — and the perpetrators of these crimes have been persons seeking or receiving international protection from Finland. A person who has received international protection cannot be deported in Finland even if he has committed a terrible crime because this status of international protection cannot be abolished in Finland. The EU directive makes this possible, but this directive was not introduced in Finland in this respect, because the origins — with a small letter, I do not want to end up in a grievances — and the partners interpreted that it is contrary to the Geneva Convention on Refugees, unlike in other EU countries. The Administrative Committee has unanimously proposed that a directive be introduced in Finland in this respect too. I ask whether you are familiar with this report — there are a few
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u258	Mr President! In August, I visited the Mariehamn border inspection post, which had received confirmation from the border guards at Helsinki Airport. They carry out their duties in an exemplary manner. The border guards at Helsinki Airport were Swedish-speaking and were therefore able to help Åland. In Åland and the coast, it is necessary to be able to provide the service in Swedish. Several seaguards in Åland are approaching retirement age, and it is therefore very important that a new Swedish-language basic course is offered to the coastguards. This course is now coming up and starting in 2022. That's a great thing. Thank you, Minister Ohio, for your good cooperation on this matter, and thank you to the whole Raja.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u259	Mr President! I would like to ask briefly about the timetable for the implementation of a government programme entry. Can you tell us, Minister of the Interior, what is the situation with the harmonisation of arms licensing practices in the country as a whole, which is included in the government programme a year and a half ago?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u260	Mr President! Minister Ohio, why does Finland raise the number of asylum seekers to be received, although most of them live on social support and represent a significant financial burden for Finland? How big a problem does the government see the high unemployment rate of people with refugee background, which is a significant burden on the Finnish economy? And why are there no conditions for family reunification of asylum seekers and quota refugees in Finland, even though other people who come to Finland have reasons?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u261	Mr President! Contributions to the security of citizens in this difficult economic and pandemic situation are very important. Thank you for all your efforts here as a whole. The Finnish Immigration Service's message has been that this funding, which this budget will provide, will enable them to continue to develop licensing processes and to dismantle congestion and reduce their processing times. Long-term and predictability is also extremely important in this funding. However, the main objectives of the Emergency Response Centre are adequate staff, the maintenance and development of the information system, and ensuring the functioning of the information system are of great concern now, as this funding does not seem to be sufficient for the cost and development of the ict maintenance. This is the same message we have received from the police with regard to ict costs. I would like to ask the Minister: how can we reduce the development of ict costs so that they do not need to be financed by reducing staff?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u262	Yesterday, the Committee on Intelligence finalised its report on the report of the Commissioner for Intelligence. Our committee's report states that this is a proper, appropriate, legitimate exercise. One point, however, is raised here. — Well, I will continue to ensure that fundamental and human rights have also been respected in the activities of the intelligence authorities. The committee draws the attention of the Government to the fact that the Intelligence Supervisor has no substitute at all, and this is what we felt in this report is lacking and we call on the Government to take the necessary measures. This is, of course, a matter for the Attorney General's Office of Justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u263	At this point, I will give the Minister the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u264	Mr President! Thank you for your good views. I'll start at the end. This last comment on the Deputy Commissioner for Intelligence is very good, and I can say that I will also give this greeting to the Minister for Justice and we will consider what we can do about it. The question was also raised about the weapons information system, which is all about these licensing practices. The main need for reform here is precisely to complete this system. It has been in a long tree even before my ministerial term and, unfortunately, in the first few months, when I came to work, I was told that it would stretch even further. We have discussed this between the Ministry and the Police Government and we will do everything in our power to support the Police Government in making this system work so that these practices are as simple and simple as possible. Representative Koponen: When it was referred to here that Finland will increase the number of asylum seekers to be received, Finland will not do so. In accordance with international law, asylum can be applied for in Finland. What the Finnish State can do is decide on these reception rates for quota refugees, and now, in accordance with the Government Programme, the number of quota refugees has been increased in cooperation with the UN UNHCR. These people are the most vulnerable people worldwide, and this is where Finland has had good cooperation with the UN for a long time. This, too, is being raised by many EU Member States as a good way of doing things, as it were, as a legal route to Europe. The role of the Swedish-speaking security authorities has increased many times in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u265	Mr President! Violent crimes committed by young people and, in particular, homicide committed by minors have been on the rise in an alarming manner this year. Looking at the statistics of the Police Board, in 2018, there were 7, 8 and so far 43 homicides committed by minors. The Helsinki police have reported that there are between 100 and 150 dangerous young people in the area, many of whom carry a blade. This is certainly an issue that concerns many, especially parents, whose children are moving around the city, and also young people, who perhaps even at night move around the city, in which direction the security of the situation in Finland, especially in the capital region, is going. We are used to having the courage to move around here differently than in many other countries, and of course we want to keep the situation that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u266	Mr President! We did not receive an answer from the Minister on this firewall issue. So, at the beginning of December, you proposed a firewall to those in the country illegally. This would make it possible to deal with illegal residents without the risk of immediate return. As far as I am concerned, illegal residents are staying in the country illegally, and our authorities in particular should not support such illegal activities. If a person has no right to be in the country, he should be removed. It's simple. The most important right is to leave immediately. Mr President! From the point of view of the coalition, whether it be a crisis or not, asylum policy must be consistent and effective. We do not have a spike open, but for a legitimate reason we can come to work for a society to build. So I ask Ohio: what kind of message is there to create loopholes in the system with various so-called firewalls?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u267	Mr President! It is extremely important that the Finnish authorities know who people are staying here within our land borders. I believe that this is a very important principle for our welfare society as a whole, but also for safety. That is what I want to challenge the opposition party's coalition that, when you talk about loopholes, one big loophole is related to the removal of the availability test that you have been driving. We know, as I said in the previous speech, that we have examples from Sweden of what this abolition of access testing will do. This is causing problems for the labour market and also an increase in trafficking in human beings, and I certainly would not wish we were going down the Swedish road in this respect. I therefore hope that Mr President will also give Mr Ohio the opportunity to reply to this earlier question concerning:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u268	Mr President! At the beginning of November, Helsingin Sanomat opened a national debate on gang-like juvenile delinquency by reporting on the growing problems in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. According to the estimates of the police and the organisations working the streets of Helsinki, there are as many as a hundred young people who behave dangerously in the background. A common feature for these young people is the immigrant background, the drug problem and the long-standing criminal cycle. Unfortunately, my hometown of Oulu has not completely missed out on these unrest among young people either. Minister, the nesting of violent street gangs in the street view of large cities is a real threat. Everyone has the right to experience the everyday life as safe. Has the government taken up violent crime with sufficient determination in this budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u269	Honorable Speaker! I will perhaps take a minor point, but I think it is quite essential, namely the Finnish firefighting expertise. We propose in our own alternative budget and tomorrow we will also put to the vote a statement that the Government should explore the possibilities of productising, selling to the world of Finnish education in the field of rescue, so that in the future we will also try to make export efforts so that this Finnish expertise in forest fires, fire extinguishing skills, can be sold to the world. Of course it's a little hard to think about it on this Christmas day, but when we get to spring and summer, we'll see that the forests start to burn again in that world, and Finland has a first-class fire-fighting expertise. Something we can do, something the rest of the world doesn't really know. Could this be turned into such a good educational package and get it for sale?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u270	Mr President! It is a good thing that this debate raises these young people, who are in a difficult situation and who behave violently. However, I would like to point out that I have worked with such young people for many years and these young people do not fall from scratch on our streets. These young people have often experienced things that no child or young person should experience in their lives under any circumstances, and they primarily need help. It is quite clear that this violence must be taken seriously, but I would like to remind this debate that these are still minors, children and young people who are often very ill. I would also like to say that it is very good that there is a clear consensus in this Chamber that police resources should be increased. It's extremely important. The police have been working under very stressful conditions for a long time. When there are few factors in the field, the work will accumulate for certain people, and it will certainly also be reflected in the quality of the work. I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior: can you open it up to whether there has been any significant increase in the need for police in this regime, or why we have too few police officers in the field?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u271	I'd like to point out that in this courtroom, you're not going to be called, you're not going to be called. — And the next speech, Mr Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u272	Mr President! In this respect, we are delighted that the committee has also drawn attention to the increase in the transfer appropriations for police action. When asked why this is the case, it has been the need because the chronic deficit has been in the number of policemen for years, and in that sense these additions are by no means yet, to say the least, a new increase is actually a new one, but rather a solution to its former shortage. Madam President! However, I would have liked to address the question to the Minister about this situation of young people: how can we influence this, that young people do not drift into these gangs and that they do not gang up? On the other hand, I am concerned that today, even in small towns, this drug trafficking is rampant and thus becomes a phenomenon of ganging in areas where it seems quite confusing: small, medium-sized rural cities are becoming serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u273	Mr President! I would like to ask about the exchange of information between the authorities. This is something that is very often spoken in the Administrative Committee. Not only the layman, but also many experts feel that the situation is absurd in many places when there is no relevant information between the safety authorities. This has to do with social services, child welfare, police, krp, syllabus and so on. Yesterday, the head of the Krp told us in an interview that he wanted to promote a specific law of this kind, which would allow better exchange of information and administrative cooperation, so that crime and organised crime in particular could be better managed and prevented and controlled. In this case, this very incredible information was presented that, at the moment, Krp police officers are being accused of having tipped off.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u274	Mr President! On several occasions, Minister of the Interior, you have pointed out that you want to prevent paperlessness, so-called paperlessness, by making it easier for those who have received a negative decision to remain on a work-related residence permit in the country. Well, in Finnish this means that someone who is illegally resident may then stay in Finland on another basis. In Sweden, this so-called fluttering lane change has caused problems. This will enable a person who has entered a country without any justification to remain in society for a long time with taxpayers' money. I ask you: what kind of plans do you have for facilitating this lane change? And do you not sign the premise that the asylum system should not be a gateway to work-related immigration but should not mean no?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u275	Mr President! Completely unexpectedly and unlike the previous decision, the Ministry of the Interior granted a further permit to the Helsinki Rescue School until summer 2023 last autumn. The last students will be admitted in the autumn of next year. The continuation of the Helsinki Rescue School will have a direct impact on the activities of the Rescue College in Kuopio. I'd like to ask you a question. How will the Ministry of the Interior deal with this next year? Do the decisions already taken and the promises made that the studies in the field of rescue will be concentrated in Kuopio?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u276	Mr President! Indeed, here today, in the presence of the Minister of Justice, we discussed this separate law on organised crime, which would bring all the details into the law and begin to see how the penalties are increased and how each individual case is then followed, so that the security of the guards in prisons is improved and all this is done. This is particularly outrageous if such organised and socially infiltrated crime occurs. So I ask the Minister for the Interior: are you now going to go through this with the Minister of Justice and bring to Parliament a ten-point programme on how you aim to improve this everyday security, for example in Helsinki and, of course, in the rest of the country? We all know and we hear these messages, how drugs are sold inside schools, so that this is no small matter. That is why there should be a clear programme to tighten up the law and tighten it up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u277	Madam President! Minister, it is good that police resources are being improved in our rural areas too, but the problem now lies in the cities of this gangbanging. It has been said that there are over a hundred young people here who are causing fear on the street and also endanger their own safety. I believe that this has to be addressed, this has to be whistled out, and the coalition has proposed this so-called "young people's house arrest" as a solution to this. We need to make the streets safe. When this has been discussed here in the past, the government’s ranks have been repeated that these young people are the children of someone. That is true, and I am quite sure that their parents are not happy and happy that these children are part of such gangbanging. That's why I'd like to see them out of the street now, and then there could be.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u278	At this point I say that everyone who wants to speak has received at least one speech, so here we go to the Minister’s speech — Minister, 5 minutes — and then we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u279	Mr President! Good points. The number of police officers often rises here in the debate. It is quite clear that we need to increase the number of police officers in order to respond better to the challenges of the future. This government has committed itself in its programme to reaching 7,500 during this term of government. Unfortunately, the number has fallen for years until 2017 until it has gradually been improved, and we will continue along this path. Hopefully, the next government will continue along this path. This is where the Department of Justice was thrown a ball of cooperation. We have a constant good conversation. I'm sure we'll find common ground. Of course, we already have many ways of preventing violent violence on the streets, for example, to prevent the marginalisation of young people, so that no one has to end up on the streets with a criminal way of life: multi-professional cooperation, schools, social work, youth work. These models are constantly being developed and strengthened. In this context, drug use was raised as a major problem. It is quite a fact that even during this time of the corona, even though people have not moved across borders, border controls have been in place, yet according to Customs — in practice, perhaps from that side — more drugs have been passed over too, unfortunately. This is a serious problem that police, Customs and Raja's PTR cooperation is increasingly addressing. As far as the police are concerned, and as far as Raja is concerned, I have instructed the work so that we can tackle this problem even more strongly. There was a debate on this firewall. After all, it is not a question of exploiting people. Surely we want a welfare state where no one is being exploited. Then it is clear what was raised here — in fact, it has also been the practice of previous Soviet Home Affairs ministers — that if a person receives a negative asylum decision but works, you can then obtain a residence permit on the basis of work. This is nothing new. The intention is, as Mr Heinäluoma well said, that we would know better who is in this society. It is a safety issue, who is moving around here, and the prevention of paperlessness is linked to this. People have to have some kind of official legal status here. And as far as refunds are concerned, it is clear that refunds will be promoted, as the Government Programme is in line. I can tell you that the last time I discussed this issue today is again within my house. We will promote EU cooperation on this issue, but we will also work bilaterally with third countries on this. And what is often overlooked, which has also been the challenge of previous Home Affairs Ministers, is that many of the host countries do not receive their own citizens. This is a problem that no Minister for the Interior can tackle on its own, and that is why we are joining forces here with the various EU Member States so that these agreements can be better achieved. There was a good point here about this forest fire know-how. Finland is really well known for many of these skills, and I think that, for example, the EU Civil Protection Mechanism (RSSM) is one place where we can share expertise, we can share assistance, equipment, anything, why not also good training practices. Personally, I think it would certainly be worth promoting these things. We also have a reform of the whole training package in the rescue service, which could perhaps even be considered. Perhaps we could discuss this in more detail later. The exchange of information between authorities is a very important issue. It is not just a question of how the security authorities are talking to each other, but it is precisely, as has been mentioned here, for example, about cooperation between social professionals and policemen, for example, in order to obtain better information, even if it is said about these people who are concerned and who are being followed by the police. How do we prevent such people from possibly planning some kind of action in this society, I am prepared to hear all the good things about it. If this is what Lardot has, I'm sure he'll show it to me at some point — hopefully. The issue of security is very important — thank you for raising it. This is, in fact, the biggest effort this government makes in relation to a particular theme. As early as this year, the number of police officers was raised by 30 in sparsely populated areas, and next year we will continue to increase this by more than 30 new police officers. In practice, it does not always mean that it is a question of walls, but in practice it also means that patrols can move. The police may be able to work in the future to investigate, to be in the field, to create new job descriptions and to develop management, working time planning. We have already received this maximum response time report from the police on the basis of which the police are going to develop their activities. But this is one of the biggest individual investments within police activity, in addition to investigating crimes against young people, children.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u280	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u284	Mr President! Anyone who has ever had to shake his phone number by hand during his life knows how long those seconds may feel before the voice of help from the phone is heard, and anyone who has had to wait for the authority to arrive in a situation where health and, at worst, human life are at risk knows how long those minutes may feel to get help. It is the duty of our decision-makers to ensure that resources are available and available quickly in this country. The work of a police officer and a rescue officer may not get so much thought into everyday life. I believe that many of us take it almost for granted that if there is an emergency, help will come. And that is exactly what it should be in Finland. Confidence in the authorities and access to assistance is a key part of the sense of security, and everyone should be able to count on the fact that when the number of the emergency centre has to be dialed, that help comes — no matter where Finland is in the middle of a crisis, a human life is worth just as much in the city and on its sides as it is in the countryside. It is important that police resources are now being increased in scattered areas. In the field, however, the extremely responsible and completely invaluable work in the overalls of the rescue services and the police will not be able to perform miracles without sufficient resources. Every emergency call is answered by a person, and there is a person behind every professional role that has arrived in an emergency. Everyone — regardless of their occupation, education or experience — will also meet the limits of their ability to cope if the load of work is excessive. When there are enough employees and experts, work is more evenly distributed, and when the workers are well at work, it will certainly also be passed on as a better functional capacity and as a service to the public. It is therefore extremely important that considerable increases in internal security resources have been made during this regime. The direction is the right one, but not all the shortfalls that have accumulated over the years will, of course, be overcome with these additional resources. In the case of internal security, resources must always be secure over long term government periods. Mr President! It is said that the most dangerous point is the moment that nothing matters anymore. It is the moment when desperate actions are taken or broken down by violating one’s security. The drift of society is always not only a human tragedy, but also a major social threat at its worst. We are most effective in preventing the experience of non-participation and the search for communityism in the criminal community by ensuring that everyone gets to feel that they are an important part of this society and by ensuring that everyone has a place on this side of the law as well. The root causes by identifying and tackling them in time are always the most effective means of preventing crime. I remember a young person who committed several crimes once told me that why would he even try to live it right again when no one thought he would succeed? I remember running into the same young person, then a young adult, once on the street, and he was happy to grin that now he has a professional degree in his pocket and the stone walls are not around. At that time, after years, he thanked him for being cared for when he was unable to care for himself. We must succeed in preventing young people from drifting into crime, but we must also succeed in helping out when habits or people around us are holding hands as part of the crime network. We cannot allow any young people to slip or drown in organised crime. We cannot allow any spiral of crime to continue because there were not enough pair of hands to catch a catch in the field. But we cannot expect, for example, that the police alone will be the one who, by doing the crime prevention work, will be able to handle everything, but we need a multi-professional, cross-sectoral job, which is what this Ankkuri activity is at its best. However, we should be many steps ahead, for the more children in this country we managed to guarantee and enable that safe childhood, the fewer young people we will face at the edge of the law. It is therefore extremely important that the resources of the authorities for crime prevention should now be strengthened and that radicalisation should be prevented by all means. Similarly, the resources allocated to combating online crime against children and the eradication of appalling trafficking in human beings are those whose value is difficult to measure in money. Mr President! Finally, I would like to raise the issue of the activities of the Animal Protection Police and the issue of better resolution of animal protection offences. It is quite clear that there has not been sufficient resources in this country to monitor animal activity and to deal with animal-protection offences, which is why the efforts now being made are commendable and important. Hopefully, we will succeed in making animal rights more effective in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u285	Mr President! At the very beginning, thank you, Mr Virra, for a very impressive and touching speech. You can hear clearly that he knows what he's talking about. In this Chamber, we have talked a lot about the ability of nurses and teachers to cope with the corona crisis. It is good that today's debate has also highlighted the effects of the interest rate on the work of internal security professionals, and it is important that this budget significantly strengthens the resources of these actors. The increase in the number of police officers has already been well mentioned here, and I would also like to thank the Minister for that. Similarly, the Border Guard has been and continues to play a key role in corona operations. It has had to do the greatest re-allocation of resources since the war and it has been done well in a difficult situation. It is important to have more resources there too. I would also like to thank the government for its determination to tackle trafficking in human beings and to combat this crime, which is too often hidden, which is a flagrant violation of human rights. The fight against trafficking in human beings requires effective, preventive action, high-quality investigation into human trafficking offences and a functioning system of assistance and care for victims. A group on the detection and investigation of human trafficking offences will be set up at the Helsinki Police Department and two designated investigators of human trafficking offences will be added to each police station. We must ensure the continuity of this work. Indeed, the serious crimes committed by minors have been a cause of concern in recent times, which have also been well mentioned here today. The representative, Mr Virta, in particular brought some good points of view to it. Indeed, this needs to be reacted quickly by stepping up cross-sectoral cooperation between the authorities and strengthening measures to prevent the exclusion of young people, and, as has been said, Ankkuri is a good example of this. Resourcement of preventative activities in the police is essential, but with the force of the police we cannot solve the problems of these children and young people; it is a good idea to identify them. With regard to emergency services, I would like to raise the health and occupational burden of personnel in emergency centres, which has also been mentioned here. The operation of emergency centres has suffered from a shortage of staff trained throughout their existence and has then led to sick leave for existing staff. This is a serious matter because, in the event of a crisis or an accident, it is a matter of the safety and, at worst, of the life of each of us. Mr President! The budget includes an increase of EUR 8 million to dismantle congestion on work and study-based residence permits, speed up processing times and improve process automation. It is therefore essential to develop and streamline these processes. At the moment, part automation can be used, but all decisions are still confirmed manually. This automatic decision-making requires a legislative change under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice, and I hope that progress will be made in this regard. Although next year the funding of the Finnish Immigration Service looks good, its continuity is of concern. If no additional resources are available, Migri will have to significantly reduce its activities from 22 years onwards. This is something that we will be able to do in the course of next year. And I would also like to thank the government and the Minister for increasing the refugee quota to 1050 people next year. There are currently most refugees in the world since World War II. The increase in the refugee quota is an important way of helping refugees fleeing war, persecution and the most vulnerable. By raising the wage quota, we will help more people in refugee camps to start a new life and create safe and controlled routes for refugees to seek refuge. Mr President! To this end, a few words on the safety of police premises, to which the Administrative Committee has repeatedly drawn attention. The number of indoor air spots of the police has risen since last year and comprises 13 destinations, with 1,900 people working in them. We can't afford to risk police health like this. Fortunately, cooperation with Senate properties has improved, but work is still needed on this. The same applies to the real estate of the Border Guard. It is good and important that it is now recorded that the increase in rent costs resulting from the repair of premises must be fully taken into account in operating expenditure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u286	Madam President! Indeed, with satisfaction in the committee, we have noted that these increases in internal security resources have been made during the reign. Indeed, as the Minister said in his speech, in 2010, we had 8,000 policemen, after which the number went down seriously, and then there has been a turnaround in 2017. This is extremely important because, unfortunately, the range of crime has also increased and the degree of seriousness has also increased, and that is why this trend is quite right and must also be continued. Indeed, here we have drawn attention to the situation of these young people and have been concerned in committee. This Ankuri activity was highlighted in particular. Indeed, as I pointed out in that debate, regionally in small and medium-sized cities right now, it seems to me that drug crime is nesting right there on the outskirts of schools and learning environments, and there perhaps less than in the capital region, for example, growth centres have actually had an understanding of the serious problem. There are parents in distress, and there are a number of related problems. Then to this issue of trafficking in human beings: It is very good that resources will be added to it and that this issue will be taken seriously. Indeed, this is one of the most shocking forms of crime worldwide, unfortunately also one of the most profitable, by which organised crime makes a big account. In that sense, Finland too, as we have said, is not a birdhouse on this issue, but we are both a transit country and then a destination, and it is also important in this respect that there are resource increases. This quota refugee system has already been raised. When the Christian Democrats were in the government, this number of quota refugees was the 1050, and that was when Päivi Räsänen, as Minister of the Interior, was raised to that very point, and precisely because in the KD we see that the quota refugee system is the controlled way in which, first of all, it can help those who are most vulnerable in refugee camps. From there, disabled people, elderly people, small children, single mothers will certainly not be able to go even to try to apply for asylum, and that is why, second of all, these people already have that refugee status. That is why it is effective and sensible to help these people then integrate directly into their homes without having to face years of processes. Finally, I would like to raise the issue of emergency services and emergency services. After all, now that the social welfare reform is being carried out, the rescue action is also being carried out, and perhaps the question to the Minister is whether this has now been taken into account in all these future funding patterns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u287	Madam President! Thank you for a good introduction and good information regarding the Ministry of the Interior's section. However, it is good that things have been brought under control, even though the time we are living in is very difficult. More specifically, I would like to ask the Minister for more information. First of all, I am grateful that the Border Guard has received sufficient funds for the renewal of the fleet, because no security work will succeed unless there is enough money. Because of my family circle and because of my close friends — many of whom are border guards — I ask you, Minister: what about monitoring this green border? There, on various occasions, border guards constantly say that their lack of crew is so enormous that there is a genuine need for a few cases of illness to cause us to be understaffed. However, there are hugely long areas under control, and that work is hard. I have seen in the family that there is genuine work to be done there, and in very difficult circumstances, when it is necessary to move on to security, as it were. The second point is that of police action. It is good that the police have had more money and more men, but unfortunately the visibility of the police is rather weak in rural areas. Then this phenomenon has caused a great deal of bad blood in local people: the SusiLIFE project. There the police are determined to take action to stop people on the road. I understand that the driver’s driving condition is checked and blown, that’s OK, as well as the condition of the vehicle, whether the tyres are in good condition, that’s normal, but when you go and do a search, that’s when you search the car — for example, a lonely widow drives to the store for milk shopping, and the police stop him on the side road and do a search — you always need a permit, and you always have to have a serious suspicion of crime to get his permission. It cannot be done categorically so that, for example, cars and people driving in front of the Parliament House would now be stopped and bags examined. It's illegal. They do this all the time. I have lodged a complaint with the Ombudsman. Would you, Minister of the Interior, not be able to intervene in this matter, because there is no general obligation on the police to monitor by this means? No person who goes to a store, berry or meet friends has any obligation to tell the police where he is going. It's where people are hunted and people live in fear. Wolves are being guarded in the woods, but no one is watching the safety of the school’s children in the middle of the village of Ilomants, because those cops are out there looking for those wolves. Is there not something absurd about this, Minister, that the safety of wolves is being monitored there and not that little schoolchild when wolves move in the middle of the village? Two weeks ago there was a pack of wolves in Ilomants, 200 metres from school, and next to that, the children went to school in the morning. Should this be addressed because I think this is so wrong that people are being searched there,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u288	Mr President! We in the Assembly believe that people in need of international protection should be helped, but it would be good if the majority of these people were taken directly from refugee camps, because there are many women, children, people in a helpless situation. The second way you can come to Finland in need of humanitarian aid is asylum and, as we know, the situation is currently escalating in Europe. Smugglers who bring immigrants and asylum seekers will always find a new route. At the moment, that route seems to be in the Canary Islands, and this time more pressure is placed on Spain than on Italy or Greece, for example. If we go back in time to 2015, then around 32,500 asylum seekers came to Finland. About a fifth of them received asylum, meaning that the success rate was relatively low. The problem here is that these people who do not receive that asylum are far from being returned to the country from which they came, and that country does not necessarily accept them either. We have had a major problem in this regard with Iraq, for example. We do not have a return agreement with Iraq, but even though Sweden has a similar agreement, they have not managed to return Iraqis either. Now, in Europe, as you know, Minister, asylum policy is under way, and we recently had this policy under discussion in a large committee. Personally, I would have liked to see a somewhat stricter approach to the way in which these asylum procedures are being developed. We have proposed such a border procedure in the Assembly, namely that these issues should be dealt with and resolved at the external borders, in the border zones. Then there would be no problem with the fact that the person is here in the country and we cannot return him. We tried to take this forward during the last term of government, but unfortunately it has not progressed. Now, this new asylum policy has two basic principles for countries that are involved in the EU. One is that countries either have to or are able to accept these asylum seekers, or they have to take part in the return procedure. Mr President! I would like to hear the Minister's view on what role Finland intends to play in the future. What are we supposed to be? What is our role in this? There is also the point of view of what the Commissioner, who is responsible for this matter, has said that if there are already citizens of a particular country, asylum seekers, then these new asylum seekers will also be directed there, that is, when there are many Iraqis in Finland, for example, then they will continue to come here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u289	Madam President! Madam Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would first like to thank Minister Ohio for the good work he has done, for example, in strengthening police resources and also in increasing the resources of the Finnish Immigration Service. As Mr Elo has done before, I too am encouraging that the resources of the Finnish Immigration Service should be sufficient, not only next year, but also afterwards. I would also have thanked Mr Virta for his good speech. However, now that he has left, this is what it is all about, speaking well behind someone else's back, and that is to say, thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Power for a good speech. In my reply, I already said that there have been terrible crimes in Finland — rape of children in Oulu, rape of adults across the country, killing of former girlfriends in Satakunta and so on — committed by asylum seekers and/or persons who have already received a residence permit on the basis of international protection. Minister, you said in your speech that it is self-evident that those who commit crimes will be expelled from Finland. I wish that were the case, but that is not the case. And now I am not talking about a return ban, which is absolute — a person cannot be returned if there is a threat of torture, the death penalty and so on — and I am not even talking about countries not taking up these returnable citizens, but about the fact that, contrary to what the EU's definition directive allows, Finland has not introduced the definition directive that the person who committed a serious crime could be removed from this position of international protection and then, of course, be expelled. I read in a very recent report by the Administrative Committee, which is less than a week old, on this subject: ‘The Commission’s proposal for a directive on the nationalisation of the national powers of the directive suggests that certain aspects of the directive are problematic and that there is a conflict In Finland, therefore, these overly strict interpreters of the basic and human rights treaties felt that an EU directive that would allow the most serious offender to be removed from international protection status would be incompatible with the Geneva Refugee Convention. It is strange that no one in the EU noticed this when this directive was adopted and when an article under this directive has been introduced in other EU countries. This is what I meant when I said that, in Finland, these Tuostajas — and now with a small letter and plural — overly grumpy interpretations of the school system can find interpretations that are not known elsewhere in Europe. I would ask the Minister to take full account of this report by the Administrative Committee in this regard. The most relevant point in this report is the following: ‘The committee has further referred to the fact that the EU definition directive allows certain conditions to be met onthe grounds of withdrawal and abolition of refugee status,that he has been convicted of a particularly serious crime. However, the Directive has not previously been transposed into Finnish law in this respect. According to the opinion of the Committee of Experts, the risk of committing a serious crime could lead to the loss of international protection status and thus possible removal may contribute to the prevention of such offences.’ And then the most relevant: ‘The committee considers that the definition directive may have to be effective in Finland from this point of view. “ In this regard, the committee is completely unanimous, and I really hope that the Minister will take action very quickly, so that this directive on definitions will also be put into effect in Finland and that the situation will be what you said in your previous reply that, of course, criminals will be expelled from Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u290	Madam President! Finland will have to live to ensure the implementation of this government's purely ideological government programme with debt money. The government will not compromise these ideological principles, but will continue to distribute money in this global health and economic situation to totally irrelevant targets, such as climate change, development aid, the smoothing-up of work-related immigration and the European Union's debt-restraint packages, and this fact cannot be repeated here too much. The Ministry of the Interior is the political body that should guarantee the safety and integrity of Finnish citizens under all circumstances. In addition to ensuring internal security, its tasks include securing Finland’s borders, civilian crisis management, citizenship and immigration, international protection and handling of asylum seekers’ cases. The last three of these seem to take precedence over everything else. There will be no savings in debt money and resources when action is guided by a blue-eyed ideology that undermines internal security and blind extreme solidarity. The results are already visible. The increase in insecurity is accompanied by membership of the European Union, open borders and commitment to Finland's various non-functioning and interpretative agreements and their slavish adherence to spots and points. Mr President! The aim of the Government Programme is to secure the rule of law Finland, which unfortunately, in the light of recent events, seems to be a joke in the eyes of the citizens. The aim is also to strengthen the sense of safety and to ensure the ability of the safety authorities to act. It is not just the government programme and the budget proposals that can guarantee the ability to act, but a sufficient number of trained staff, equipment, operating environment management machinery are needed to ensure that it is ensured. The mere gimmicking of words will not eliminate the insecurity of our citizens, and while the government is about to increase funding for police activities a little, it is not enough in the long term, especially since it is known that crime in our country will not be reduced because of its root causes and open borders. We Finns would be in our alternative budget to increase the number of police officers to over 8,000 person-years, but this would require funding to be directed not only to the police but also to increase police training. Increasing civil disobedience and e.g. In the future, too, the stunts of the eco-insurgent police are going to consume a huge amount of police resources. In the future, officials’ criminal convictions against the police of future decision-makers who spend their time lying on the ground with their feet will not be spared. The police should be given the means of action and the necessary tools to prevent such foolishness. Changing things would be easy to check with the current government’s debt, but there seems to be a lack of will when secondary issues are more important. In its draft budget, the Government recognises that the internal security environment has become more complex and is also influenced by factors outside our country. In other words, it is implicitly acknowledged that, due to the open borders of the European Union, its policies and the reception of asylum seekers, the insecurity of citizens has increased and will increase to an increasing extent, and this will not be helped by the increase in the posts of immigration coordinators, by-passes and the impalement of criminals in the country. If the root causes of the problems are not recognised, let alone talked about, no budget or resource will change or correct this issue. Mr President! When it comes to immigration, the government's actions and programmes are totally incompatible. However, when the draft budget proposes that immigration is managed and socially sustainable, the government will try to keep those illegally present within the already limited services of society by increasing resources and money to these people who have received a negative asylum decision illegally. The only way to do this would be for people who threaten the security of their citizens to be detained and, consequently, for return to their countries of origin. If the country in question does not accept its own citizens, it cannot enjoy the benefits paid by Finland either. Persons who have received a positive asylum must be responsible for the laws, culture, practices and language learning of our country above all any other integration measure. On the ground like a country or out of the country. Mr President! The administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior is a wide area to which the Government should pay particular attention. It is a basic pillar of support for Finnish and Finnish citizens and should never be put at risk because of ideological humbugs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u291	Madam President! Gang violence has been mentioned here and immigration and, of course, police resources. Let me now combine these three themes and ask the Minister a question that has been asked in the past and which I myself have been dealing with in the Administrative and Security Section during the last parliamentary term. In other words, the question is whether it would be possible to take applicants with an immigrant background to the Polytechnic, whose Finnish or Swedish language skills are not sufficient for education, but who still have full control of their native language, i.e. they know either Finnish and their mother tongue or Swedish and their mother tongue. I am asking this question because if you are in the same reference group, it will be easier to deal with customers, whom they then recognize as being their own person, their own authority, perhaps easier when the language is common and the background is shared in that way. On the subject of the Emergency Response Centre: the Audit Committee dealt with the Government's annual report and made emergency centre issues a priority in this review. We heard a lot of experts, and we found that there is both a shortage of personnel and a problem with the well-being of staff. There are clearly problems, and the workload at work is unacceptable from time to time, i.e. calls, tasks, increases but not the number of staff. It is certainly worth looking at this report by the Committee on Audit, in that it does bring together very well the consultations of experts, the staff aspects and then put them in a concise package in that report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u292	At the end of this section, Minister Ohio, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for a very good debate and comments. Many of these I am happy to move forward, and I hope that you will certainly also send a message that we will be able to contribute together to these good objectives which have been raised here. There was house arrest here, but perhaps there must be some disagreement. It may work for young people who have a safe home. Unfortunately, young people who have difficulty on the streets often find it very difficult to be in their home. Perhaps we should go a little further on this. The border procedure was raised in a number of speeches and is now taking place in this reform of the EU's asylum and immigration policy. Of course, the positions on U-letters are still being formed here at the end of the Parliament, but Finland has not objected to this at any point in itself, so this work is moving forward. That is why I understand that the members of the Assembly have also been waiting for this decision at EU level on this issue, which we can now promote. Finland has also requested further information and legal clarifications on how this could be implemented in the future. Perhaps as an observation, when the government programme states that if a person receives a negative decision on asylum, then he could obtain a residence permit on the basis of work — this is an existing practice, nothing new. But perhaps also the point that this residence permit could be obtained precisely on the basis of work, i.e. people would not remain in this society to enjoy social security benefits, as some may have mentioned here. In other words, work is an essential factor here, and employment in this country is needed. The question of reform of asylum policy was asked. A few concrete or perhaps the most important reforms must be that, at an earlier stage, the more efficient and high-quality those asylum applications are dealt with from the outset, the greater the certainty that we will not have the cost of reception, because these processes will not increase. This makes sense. This is worth doing, and this is promoted by the government. The funding of emergency services will be secured in the future. The Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will ensure that this funding for the rescue services is ensured in the context of the welfare area-wart reform. Now, of course, for the next few years, the funding will come from the municipalities, and everyone who has the municipal decision-making opportunity will, of course, be in favour of pushing this funding harder in their own municipality. After all, there has already been a lot of additional resources for border guards. As you mentioned, Mr Hoskonen, investment in new outposts, among other things, is a huge amount of investment that is now being made, and that is important in all its aspects. One of the concrete factors that puts a burden on staff is, of course, this internal border control. It has its own advantages in this difficult health security situation. At the moment it is the only way, but at the same time that people are there, they are also out of the strength that is needed at the eastern border. [The President knocks ] As far as this is concerned, when Mr Hoskonen also spoke about the operational activities of the police, it is quite the right point that you have complained to the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u294	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The debate will continue at a later date in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u295	The general debate on section 26, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u296	Mr President! Surely you can never talk too much about the importance of police work and the need for additional resources. Roses to the government can be given to strengthen police resources next year, as proposed by the Assembly in the summer of next year, with an additional allocation of EUR 4.1 million, specifically targeted at the fight against trafficking in human beings, financial crimes and online crime, as well as monitoring and alerting activities, particularly in sparsely populated areas. But then straight away: Before the parliamentary elections, all the parliamentary parties committed themselves to raising the number of policemen to at least 7850 person-years. However, after the election, the government party jacket turned, and the government’s goal is only 7,500 person-years by 2022. In all public debates, the number has been found to be insufficient by experts. Increasing the number of police officers requires permanent changes and increasing the number of police officers to the level of 8,000 person-years, at least. A sufficient number of police officers guarantee a safe daily life throughout Finland, and in that sense too the whole population must be on an equal footing. Indeed, the permanent increase of EUR 40 million in the alternative budget of the Assembly in the operational expenditure of the police is extremely justified and is needed to recruit new police officers and to extend police training and to improve the police's ability to act, particularly through the procurement of information technology and other equipment. Mr President! I am concerned about the increase in organised crime and juvenile delinquency. Organised crime is one of the greatest security threats across Europe and has increased throughout the last ten years. Although organised crime is mainly domestic in Finland, it is still increasingly international, and most organised crime groups cooperate with criminal groups in Russia and the Baltic countries in particular. Organised crime groups in Finland are particularly involved in drug crime but are increasingly involved in the construction, cleaning and restaurant industries. The groups also seek to extend their tentacles to society’s structures and decision-making system. One form of external influence is to cover up criminal activities, for example, behind a seemingly charitable or hobby activity. Everyone knows that organised crime today makes special use of information networks to commit crime. Blackmail programs, fishing scams, frauds, money laundering and sexual exploitation of children are part of the criminal repertoire. My great concern in this as a whole is that there is currently no separate legislation in Finland to combat organised crime and not enough criminalisation of membership of a criminal organisation. However, according to the criminal code in force, a crime committed as a member of an organised criminal group may be the basis for the punishment. The fight against organised crime requires extensive cooperation between authorities and stakeholders through criminal and administrative means. The police department of the Ministry of the Interior will be responsible for the necessary policies for the police. But that is not enough. There is also an urgent need for a broader organisation of the Authority and a wide range of preventive actions to coordinate this whole. What are you going to do about this, government? It's urgent, and while you're waiting for a criminal game, it's getting harder.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u298	Mr President! When dealing with the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior, it is good to talk a little about Finnish security, internal security and cause and effect relationships. As far as immigration is concerned, I would like to point out that there are issues which are very much at odds with our sense of justice. For example, I cannot accept that a person who escapes war and persecution can, without any concern, take a vacation in a country from which he has specifically escaped from war and persecution, on the basis of which he has been granted asylum in Finland. This is clearly a gross abuse of the asylum system and should not be accepted in any way. Well, we have to take action. I would stress that the role of the government is to guarantee the safety of Finnish citizens, and here is one point in which asylum is flagrantly exploited, and I can say with one voice that such persons who are here on an asylum-based basis but who are able to holiday in their countries of origin are here for some other reason. Proposals for solutions are always asked, and most importantly, they must be put forward when criticism is made. When dealing with the citizens' initiative to expel sexual offenders in the Administrative Committee, it was very clear that there is often a state of will in the drafting of laws that determines whether or not things are moving forward. I believe that a good citizens' initiative, which as such was not able to move forward — which is understandable in itself — but which caused a good debate, should have led to even more debate, so that this house would take action and take action because of the concerns of the Finnish people. In fact, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats put forward a number of clear proposals for improvements to the report — a good report in itself, but indeed we tabled proposals for improvements — and I am really surprised that when Finland has the opportunity to introduce more robust measures, it is not in practice ready to do so. For example, we proposed that the committee should require the government to take immediate action to make the necessary amendments to the Aliens Act so that the status of international protection can be removed as permitted by the definition directive from a person who has reasonable grounds to assume that there is a danger to Finland's security or who has been convicted of a particularly serious crime by a judgment having the force of law. This amendment did not go to the government parties. We also proposed that the committee consider that the conditions for obtaining citizenship should be tightened up. We hoped that the committee's view would be that the citizenship law needs to be amended so that it will never be possible for foreigners who have committed a serious crime to acquire Finnish citizenship. In Denmark, for example, foreigners guilty of sexual offences have been permanently excluded from the possibility of Danish citizenship. For the rest, citizenship should be subject to a successful integration process. I mean: in Denmark this is possible, in Finland this is not something they want to introduce. We are a country governed by the same European Union rules. In addition, we wanted the committee to consider the current legal situation to be inadequate and to consider that the government should take immediate steps to extend the scope of detention to the extent possible under the Return Directive, i.e. the European Union directive, so that the person who has been ordered to be returned as a result of the criminal penalty can be immediately detained. This wasn't for the government parties, it wasn't for downtown. Although the main strategies of the Central Party are concerned about the safety of Finns, this was not the case. Why didn't this happen? That is because the green ideology has also taken over the former rural defender party. Mr President! For my part, I thank you for the debate and wish everyone a peaceful and merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u299	Mr President! Unfortunately, we have all been able to read far too much about the growth and violence of juvenile delinquency over the course of this year alone. Some kind of emergency may already be mentioned, as in 2020 the number of suspected homicides and their businesses is about to double from the general level of 2011 to 2019. The Helsinki police, as well as several other authorities and youth workers working in the field, are concerned about young people moving in Helsinki who behave badly and dangerously and some of whom commit serious crimes. According to the Helsinki police, more and more young people are carrying steel weapons and the violence committed by young people is increasingly related to drugs and the robberies that have taken place in their sales situations. Most young people have a foreign background. It takes urgent action, both soft and hard, to remedy the situation. The growth of young people's ill health requires the necessary resources and a fast and low threshold for access to mental health services and other services, but a strict line of law and order is also needed. The message of society and our parents to young people must be unambiguous. Everyone in Finland must comply with the laws, and crimes always result in punishment for young people. It may be a service for a young person, the earlier a deluded youth is brought into the realm of law - abidingness. We also need more resources for this kind of work for the police.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u300	Presentation of Section 27 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Defence At this stage, 1.5 hours will be reserved for the general discussion in the section. President of the Section, Mr Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u301	Honorable Speaker! As chairman of the administrative section, I would like to present the contribution of the defence administrative sector to the budget report. Section 27 consists of two entities: the Defence Forces’ operating expenditure, including personnel and real estate expenditure, and then the Defence Forces’ military-specific purchases under their own articles. The main content of the report relates to the acquisition of HX, which is effectively activated by the report. The Committee notes that the draft budget for the administrative sector has moved in a rather general direction, particularly with regard to expenditure items. On the other hand, detailed price information on these procurements cannot be opened publicly in the future. More detailed information should be provided to Parliament as a basis for decision-making. The committee sees the HX acquisition and procurement as a step in the right direction. I'll go over these packages briefly. Firstly, 1708 million more are proposed for the operating expenditure of the defence administration than in the current year's budget. Next year, therefore, the proposal will be 4880 million. The increase is mainly due to the HX project. According to the Government Programme's guidelines The personnel of the Defence Forces will be increased by 100 persons during the spending limits period. An increase of 4.4 million is proposed in the recruitment of contract soldiers, reaching more than 400 man - years. Despite the increase in staff, the committee draws attention to the ability of staff to cope. In particular, there have been changes in statutory tasks and international activities have also increased. The Committee would draw attention to the fact that the new defence report, which will be drawn up in 2021, would also be consistent with staff and staff years. Next year the staff will be around 2108 person-years. In the event of exceptional circumstances and epidemics, the committee considers the efforts of the Defence Forces to prevent the spread of the epidemic to be very successful and the training results of the 2+2+2 training model are considered to be good. The committee will add 200000 to the air operations at Kauhava airport next year. With regard to the purchase item, the committee notes that both the fleet 2020 and the HX project have not hindered the balanced development of the Army. A total of 783 million will be proposed for the acquisition expenditure item and a new order authorisation will be made, which will amount to approximately 881 million, of which approximately 167 million will be allocated next year. Another new order authorisation, approximately 153 million, is also proposed for operating expenditure, and this third new authorisation is an HX acquisition. The committee raises the focus of the domestic defence industry, and procurement should focus on the home country whenever possible. Exports and internationalisation of the domestic defence industry should be promoted. And then the HX acquisition. As part of the budget, the procurement of multi-functional fighters will be decided. In 2020, 20 million and now 580 million were allocated to the other costs of the project and 9400 million will be commissioned for the procurement of multi-functional fighters themselves, which will provide multi-functional fighters, including weapons and other contracts, including parts. Next year, 900 million will be spent on the mandate. The total cost presented is at the price level of 2021, which corresponds to the maximum cost of the project. The acquisition uses the so-called fixed price tender, design-to-cost, which requires the procurement to be budgeted as a whole. In this case, Parliament will be aware of the total purchase price in connection with the decision, except for the costs of changes in indices or currency fluctuations. This avoids the situation that Parliament faced in the 1990s when the acquisition was made in two order mandates and in fact Parliament committed itself to the acquisition as a whole in the first phase. Operating costs will be up to a tenth of the defence budget. The same has been used to maintain existing equipment. From 22 onwards, this item will be budgeted for expenditure arising from changes in indices or currencies. According to a report received by the committee, a completely fixed price agreement has proved to be uneconomic. The procurement planning framework is very forward-looking. The military will have to pay advance and stage fees. As a guarantee for these payments, suppliers will be required to provide guarantees. On the basis of the report it has received, the committee considers that the procurement, the powers conferred on it and the fixed price tender model are in line with the guidelines adopted. The service and maintenance capacity must be in Finland for the entire service life. Procurement and related contracts must be used: [The President knocks ] The National Defence Training Association will be added 200,000.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u302	Mr President! First of all, thank you, Congressman. To the lowland for a good introduction. The current Government Programme is based on ensuring the maintenance of the defence capability and the conditions for its development in line with the development of the operating environment by securing adequate resources for the Defence Administration. The resources will follow the guidelines set out in the 2017 Defence Report. The guidelines of the report above the electoral period have been taken into account in the annual budgets since 2018, and the current 21 budget is also in line with the report. The EUR 10 billion HX funding proposed in the 21 budget is divided into EUR 9.4 billion in order and less than EUR 0.6 billion in off-demand funding. The procurement costs of the HX project are 12 years. The total appropriation requirement for the year 21 is EUR 1.48 billion, excluding the share of VAT expenditure. The basis for the HX procurement has not changed, even though the economic outlook has become darker as a result of the corona epidemic in the course of the current year. The primary task of Finland’s defence capability is to prevent the use of military force and its threat and to combat attacks. This requires fighters who are an indispensable part of air defense and the use of the Defence Forces' fire on land and at sea. The fighters also complement the Defence Forces' intelligence, surveillance and leadership. There are no other systems to replace fighters. On the basis of a report received from the Ministry of Defence, the Committee on Finance considered the funding submitted to the HX project to be justified and necessary. The fixed-price tender to be used for the project is considered appropriate. The Committee also stresses the security of supply for multi-functional fighters and the precise and realistic assessment of life-cycle costs. This is an understandable precondition. The Committee also considers it necessary for the National Audit Office to closely monitor the progress of procurement. This, of course, also fits well with the Ministry of Defence, which has already had constructive cooperation with the Inspectorate in the preparation of the project to date. Mr President! The increase in the defence budget next year is mainly due to the financing of the HX project. For the rest, the increase in appropriations for the administrative sector will be 0.7% next year, due to wage contract increases and other cost level adjustments. The Defence Forces will therefore have to carry out their statutory tasks with existing resources. The size of the Defence Forces' personnel, some 8,000 professional soldiers and some 4,000 civilians, does not correspond in the longer term to the expanding field of operations of the Defence Forces. In this respect, therefore, there is still room for hope, even though there is a gradual increase in staff based on the Government Programme. We should look at this in the future defence report, as the committee's report states. The ongoing Strategic Performance Projects of the Maritime and Air Force do not jeopardise the development of the Army. All defence branches will be developed in a balanced manner with the limited resources available. In addition to HX and Fleet 2020 projects, approximately EUR 974 million of the military defence budget for 21 years will be spent on material preparedness. This includes the purchase of military equipment and the cost of equipping and maintaining troops with operational expenditure. The interest epidemic, ladies and gentlemen, has led to exceptional arrangements in military training. In spring 21, the Defence Forces will also continue to adapt military training to the situation by rhythmizing training and free periods in the garrison and by implementing training in three separate departments. The additional costs resulting from the exceptional arrangements have already been set aside in the budget for the first batch of arrivals for next year. The interest-rate epidemic has also made it somewhat more difficult to repeat exercises, and the objective of increasing repetition exercises will not be achieved this year. So it's the corona. The target for next year is 19,300 trained reserve personnel. There will also be an appropriation for the recruitment of contract soldiers next year, which will support both the training arrangements in the Defence Forces and the employment of young people. The committee stresses the need to secure the resources of voluntary defence. Here, too, the corona epidemic has contributed to the fact that the objective has not quite been achieved. The additional budget of EUR 200000 proposed by the committee is a welcome increase for next year. The recent adoption of the Budget Act on the establishment of defence properties as a company belonging to the Senate Group means that the use of defence forces [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u303	Now we're gonna start the debat. Those Members who wish to speak in response to this debate shall stand up and press the V button. Debatin begins with Congressman Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u307	Mr President! Indeed, there are few policy sectors that would not have been affected by the corona pandemic. Even national defence does not make an exception. The HX project was estimated to be already about six months behind schedule in the summer. It is quite clear that several operators, confidential defence technology and information security factors are involved in the acquisition of fighters, that not all things can be covered by Teams meetings. I would like to ask the Minister how much delay will be in the implementation of the HX project as a result of this corona pandemic, and will this delay have some kind of operational or financial impact?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u308	Madam President! Mr. Secretary! Exactly, there has been good cooperation and a common spirit in this House on these matters of defence. It is not just a tradition, it is an absolute resource for us. Against this background, I would also like to ask: when the corona period has, of course, also disciplined the defence administration and made it difficult, among other things, to carry out refresher exercises, the Government Programme has agreed that both the refresher exercises and the Defence Forces will be increased at the same time, because we also need skilled staff to train more refreshers for training. I looked at one opinion from the Committee on Finance, a statement from the Chief Staff describing that some 1500 refreshers would increase the number of refreshers by 23, by the end of the reign. However, it is only about half of the one recorded in the government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u309	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for a good presentation, and thank you also to the Government for taking strong care of Finland's defence conditions even during economically challenging times. Defence policy cannot be dependent on political or economic cycles; defence must be taken care of in all circumstances, and that is what the government is doing. The Government has made considerable efforts to defend itself, fully replaces the disappearing capabilities of the Air and Navy, strongly invests in the development of the Army, continues to develop military training and further refresher exercises. However, the JTS savings allocated to the Defence Administration amount to around EUR 180 million between 2020 and 2029. I would like to ask the Minister: how can we ensure the long-term development and maintenance of defence capabilities and adequate human resources?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u310	Madam President! National defence is a matter that unites all of us Finns, and in Finland, defence matters have always been handled in a very united way, and it is a pleasure to see that the same line continues here in Parliament as well. Although the Government of the Republic can be criticised very much for the different types of omissions and mismanagement, it has to be said that, in the defence sector, the government and the Minister of Defence, Mr Kaikkonen, have had a great deal of praise for this, and so thank you on the part of the opposition. Mr Defence Minister, you said in public some time ago that several hundred more officers may be needed if I do not misunderstand. Here too, it would be good to hear what your plan is, how you intend to carry this out, what tasks are at stake, and where people can be obtained.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u311	Mr President! The section president and the Minister have already touched on this good preparation of the HX procurement and also on this communication with Parliament. If we compare Hornet procurements, this has been much more intensive and informative, but it must also be continued as this agreement is advanced and the procurement process progresses, and that is why the Committee on Finance added these specific targets, that it is important to check that these life-cycle agreements remain in place and that all possibilities for industrial cooperation should be used in the procurement and related contracts, and that further rigorous monitoring of the National Audit Office is necessary. In the coming year, the Committee on Defence, but in particular the Committee on Finance's Administrative and Security Section, will need these interim reports in order to ensure that this extremely large procurement remains on track.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u312	Madam President! Minister, we have had a good Minister of Defence. Thank you, Mr Kaikkonen, for your good work. I would also like to thank the Defence Forces for their excellent work even during this corona crisis and also our staunch staff and conscripts. They've torn up a lot in these days. I also thank you for taking this HX acquisition fully to the finish line, and we have a lot of good expertise in Finland. Recent news tells of Patria’s AMV interest in Japan, and hopefully the assault rifle could be made in the future in Riihimäki, for example, in the Armament and Kone Workshop, the current Fine. Right to the end: ‘Well, even the cold winters,’ said the Unknown Soldier,and you continued, Minister You gave me a new instruction. The army is marching on its stomach, and I would like to ask: has this food sector been put in order?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u313	Madam President! The committee drew attention to the fact that this HX project is now the largest and most economically binding project, and also to the need to develop the material of the various defence branches in a balanced manner. In that sense, it could be said that not only the equipment but also the personnel and the well-being of the staff are important, as is the maintenance of refresher exercises. Perhaps in this regard, although the Minister said at the end that, when this legislation was only being passed, there was not so much time to return to this property in his speech, I would have asked: when we still have these Defence Forces buildings in the condition that, even because of indoor air problems, the military service is being stopped, what is the current situation in the various parts of Finland, and is it possible to see that now this restructuring of defence properties would produce something special new? I still have to say,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u314	Congressman Herbtiaho.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u315	President! Mr Essayah asked about this performance. Its idea is, in fact, that, in this situation of government finances, which absorbs 30 billion more debt, it is not worth running into another 30 billion additional debts, which would be the cost of this HX project, the cost that has been announced. In other words, we believe that the project should be re-evaluated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u320	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, on this issue that has arisen, on what the total cost of this fighter acquisition is, I say it is exactly the ten, but it is at the price level of 2021. In other words, when this new HX acquisition item is present, then from 2022 it will be budgeted for increases or reductions depending on how the indices change, i.e. how currency changes go, whether increases or reductions are to be made. And this same article will be used for this all the time, and in practice this change in cost levels will be made in advance and then seen later, which has been the correct result. But I would like to conclude by asking that when all the possibilities for industrial cooperation are to be used in procurement and related contracts, and when this multi-functional fighter produces such a picture of the situation and when we have a lot of radar technology in the Oulu region,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u321	Mr President! Mr Kanerva began his speech with an acronym. I shall also begin by using an acronym which is more familiar to the Minister, HX. This is the largest single public investment in Finland's economic history of scale, and the Finnish fleet of destroyers will be the largest in the European countries if we exclude the countries that make the destroyers themselves and excluding Greece. No other country will have such a large fleet of fighters. The price tag is EUR 10 billion now, but we know that we in the Committee on Defence have already heard that this is 35% of the total price when we talk about its life-cycle costs. Now the key issue here is what has already been raised several times, namely the importance of this industrial cooperation. It has been thought that it would be calculated to be 30 per cent, which would be left in Finland from that labour input. What are the monitoring systems so that this would be better ensured than in the case of the Hornets, that the domestic industry would really be involved in this in the future, both in terms of maintenance and maintenance and also in terms of manufacturing?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u322	Mr President! Kauhava is pleased to receive an appropriation of EUR 200,000 for the organisation of air operations at Kauhava Airport in 2021. The airport is now used in leisure aviation, and the city of Kauhava is committed to supporting the development of the region. The airport also has the capacity to organise larger events, such as the Kauhava Air Show, the main air show of the Finnish Aviation Federation last summer. In addition to the success of the public, this air show was also significant because Kauhava Airport, which fell off the frontier station, returned at least on a temporary basis to official airfield. This will make it possible to develop activities in the future. The airport's in good shape, isn't it? Last summer the Finnish HX fighter candidates landed in the field in style and took off as the technology worked perfectly in the field. Mr President! Returning military aviation to Kauhava maintains airport status and, on the other hand, keeping the airport as part of military activity is a smart move in terms of security policy. As Chairman and Member of the Kauhava City Council, I thank you for this decision and I hope that this appropriation will continue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u323	Mr President! The military's greatest asset is personnel. The number of person-years will increase by more than 100 htp and that is a very good thing. However, there is a message from the airport that there are too few staff in relation to the workload. In the debate on budget referrals, I asked for a burden on the working time law of the Defence Forces officials, but perhaps because of lack of time, I did not receive an answer. The Working Time Act dates back to 1970, and its needs for change have also been clarified. However, the representatives of the employers' and personnel' organisations did not agree on this. How do you see, Minister, that the problem should be solved, or do you see whether there is any problem with the Working Time Act?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u324	Mr President! Mr Essayah asked about the government's line to the HX project here, and that is clear: the government supports the implementation of the HX project and the full replacement of Air Force performance. It is already clearly recorded in the Government Programme and, of course, it is also reflected in this draft budget. I have already said in my speech that defence policy and taking care of national credible defence cannot be a cyclical policy, but if, from a purely economic point of view, we are thinking of this replacement of multi-functional fighters or possible theoretical extension to the Hornets, then I would ask the Minister: how does this appear in that light? In economic terms, would it be reasonable even theoretically to consider such an option?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u325	Mr President! Of course, it is impossible to determine the sum of operating and maintenance costs exactly today, but it is quite clear that there are very clear, clear rules on how to act in this respect, and I understand that the Defence Forces and the Ministry have not in any way built up the idea that, even in terms of life-cycle costs, additional funding could be made available. It cannot represent more than 10% of the annual defence budget overall, and therefore without separate funding, which amounts to around EUR 250 million per year, which is therefore the operating and maintenance cost of the HX system. Finland will not buy a system, Mr Yrttiaho, which does not meet these criteria. Finland is not going to slip away from this either, as is not the case with other criteria in this regard, so it is pointless to raise a cloud of fear that there should be some sort of buy-in here that would fall from the cost of many other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u326	Now, Minister Kaikkonen, after that, we will proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u327	Mr President! I'll try to make as many comments as I can on this. I have never heard that Mr Kanervan's DDR line in this form before, but it made sense when it was presented in that form. Congressman Ronkainen asked for the HX delay. Well, it is of a size of four to six months, mainly due to the fact that not all negotiations can be conducted in a secure manner at these times, but I would not say that there will be any significant operational or financial disadvantages. A project of this length will take a few months. A few years' delay would not be a problem, but this is something we can deal with. This will send the final invitations to tender in January and then that final award decision will be made at the end of next year, i.e. stick to this original 21 timetable, but it would seem to go just to the end of the year. Congressman Kari asked me about the refresher exercises. It goes in the right direction, but there is still a way to go towards the goal of the Government Programme. Partly, it is also a resource issue. We must return to this issue in the future budgets of this parliamentary term, but the direction is in itself correct, although this year's interest rate has led to a failure to achieve the objective and perhaps not to reach it next year - it will remain to be seen, but we will do so. This year we may reach about 70% of the target, or a little bit above it, we will soon find out. Congressman Kalli asked about the JTS savings. Well, of course it makes things difficult, you can say it directly, but it has been known, and I would say it can be lived with, but there must be no further cuts. It can be lived with — I would use this expression. Other branches of government also have to live with it. Mr Kopra asked about this staff increase. I have pointed out that in the longer term there is a need for staff increases. Since significant investments are being made in this parliamentary term, I am not now proposing these staff increases for this parliamentary term. I would say that let us return to the defence report during the winter and spring and then see what policies and objectives we could achieve together. In practice, the defence statement will guide the programme of the next good government, at least this is what I think, and at the end of the decade, hopefully, these necessary additions can be made. Mr Koskinen's view of this HX monitoring can be shared, and it is important that Parliament is also sufficiently up-to-date along the way. Congressman Heinonen asked about the garrison's food supply. Indeed, action has been taken on the basis of the feedback received, and the guidance has been updated. We're gonna have to watch this thing play better than before. That is what I understand, but I will follow this. There is also the issue of the domestic level of food, which is currently around 75%. It is a reasonable performance, but personally I think that we need to be able to do better and the Finnish army should march mainly with Finnish food. So this, too, will require further work. Congressman Essayah asked about the real estate situation. Most of the renovations in the garrison have already been made, and I think they will be done around five years. There are still some shortcomings, but this is definitely on the working list, and I agree that the properties must be in order. It is a question for both conscripts and trainers that there can be no breathing air that would be unhealthy for people. Mr Yrttiaho, it is true, as Mr Vähämäki described here, that index costs will be incurred. It is standard practice for these projects. Exchange rates may have a bearing on one direction or another, but I would say about these total costs that EUR 30 billion is on the upper deck and, rather, about EUR 20 billion, of which this investment amounts to EUR 10 billion. Once the cost of running the project has been determined — up to EUR 250 million per year, and may be less, but not more so — then, over the last 30 years, we will be able to reach a level of 10 billion on that side. It already contains a few updates. Mr Kinnunen asked about the consideration of civilian skills in the training of the reserve. There is coming, preparing a pretty significant digital service for the conscripts. [The President knocks ] I will return to the remaining questions, I hope, in the next speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u328	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u329	Mr President! Mr. Minister, if the life cycle of the HXs and Hornets were extended, we would probably have the most expensive museum aircraft in Finland in a few years' time. The Defence Administration and their experts have assessed and reported their assessments to the Committee on Defence in a very detailed manner, on the basis of the fact that the HX schedule is as it is now, and there will be no great doubt, or there will be no doubt. With regard to this number of staff, the Minister well explained that the road map should also be created for the future. Since 2014, I have been in the process of proposing and hoping to find such a solution to this staff issue that goes beyond the term of government and the term of office. Since 2014, the number of staff in the Defence Forces has increased considerably, but the number of staff has not followed this trend. You mentioned that the report should look for:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u330	Mr President! Finland is also defended by asking questions. We have had new intelligence legislation since 2019, and it is important that this intelligence activity is such that citizens feel it is acceptable, that public authorities are trusted, that privacy has been respected and that the entire intelligence culture in general is commendable and is considered important. Yesterday, a report by the Committee on Intelligence was produced and we pointed out that there is no substitute for the Commissioner for Intelligence. We considered this to be some kind of deficiency, and we hope that the Government will remedy this. This is important in order to maintain credibility, trust in important intelligence legislation and intelligence activities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u331	President! This multi-functional acquisition has been rushed on the basis of the fact that the present Hornets are already coming to the end of their journey in 2031. I have in front of me a memo prepared by the Air Force Staff, dated June, on the possibilities for extending the life cycle of the Hornets. It was drawn up by the Ministry of Defence when the economic downturn caused by the interest rate rightly raised the debate on the need to postpone the acquisition of new fighters. Of course, the Air Force will end up with the fact that the lifetime of the Hornets should not be extended. It's unusual at all to ask the Air Force to judge their own case. At the very least, we would need an impartial explanation. The number of hours worked by the Air Force Hornets is not mentioned at all in this survey. There are many different sources of information to be dug up on this matter. They're very hard to get. But, according to the lobbyists, these
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u332	Mr President! We have not yet talked about crisis management. We all remember the fine, glorious history of peace-keeping and Finland as one of the great powers of peace-keeping. Of course, time may have changed and time has passed, but we have, above all, wanted to continue to focus on the fact that both military and civilian crisis management are Finland's priorities and priorities and will continue to do so. We currently have this parliamentary committee to define the quantitative and qualitative objectives and also to monitor what is happening in Finland and Europe and in the UN in this sector. I would now like to ask you about your ideas and prospects for next year's military crisis management. So as far as Afghanistan is concerned, we know the rapid movements of the United States and the unstable policy of Trump, and then, of course, we are in Iraq. But are there any changes in the field of military crisis management?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u333	Mr President! I would like to return to this situation of Senate property and defence property, which is that it seems that we currently have many times in the state administration these various increases in appropriations under articles — whether they were university funding or something else, for example, in relation to the judiciary or the police buildings of the Ministry of the Interior or the like — dwindling to these growing rent costs. In that sense, I hope that, in this situation, where the Defence Forces are now, this will not become an additional burden in the future and will be able to take care of safe properties. I would also have asked about this kind of special security property coming to this city centre of Helsinki, which is supposed to be both a military administration and a protection police officer and something like that to bring to that area – I would have asked about the progress of this project. And then again to Mr Yrttiaho: I am surprised that a representative of the government party is bringing this to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u334	Mr President! With regard to HX: political decision-making can, in my view, draw attention to three issues: (1) how much money is being allocated, (2) what is the timetable for this project, and (3) where they are being acquired. Now, with this decision, which Parliament will now take, we will decide both on this timetable and on this level of appropriations. The only thing that remains open here, the political decision, is this type of machine. It's got performance raised to number one. They're all fighters, they're all high-performance. I'm sure there'll be a difference in order, but there are other meanings to this. Industrial cooperation is one, and another, of course, is the strategic dependence that this project creates. What will be the focus here when the government ultimately has to evaluate it then — performance will probably put someone first. But another destroyer may have this industrial cooperation effect much greater, or this strategic dependence may have to be considered for foreign and security policy reasons. What, then, is the focus of these other criteria when a final decision has to be taken?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u335	Mr President! The ability to defend and care for it is indeed an extensive and long-lasting matter and, in the case of this Chamber, the side-to-side issue — hopefully all the way to the left. Many young men or young women have been disappointed in recent years when they have not been able to perform military service or voluntary military service with the enthusiasm and ability to which they have committed themselves and waited while indoor air problems are still commonplace in many of our garrisons. Could Mr Kaikkonen please repeat what has been done and what is being done to enable everyone to carry out voluntary military service or military service and thereby serve the country? I know that the Committee on Defence, chaired by Mr Kanerva, has also addressed this issue, but I would like to ask this again. And the second point is the technological capability of the Finnish Defence Forces, to which the representative The low hill also referred to the recent debut. What's going on in that direction?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u336	Mr President! The HX project is talking, and that's a good thing. In due course, Parliament has decided that Hornet's performance will be fully replaced. It is well known that it makes no sense to postpone the project. The Hornets are at the end of their journey and repairing them would cost more than new machines. It would likely be necessary to put the machines into atoms and then reassemble them. So flying on these planes would no longer be safe, and if the planes cannot fly, how will our aerial surveillance be carried out during peacetime? The Drones? The replacements of Hornets play an important role in Finland's defence strategy. It is not just air to air, as the Minister has said, but there are many more, including air to earth, sea, reconnaissance, and so forth. I have heard that some believe that aircraft can be replaced, for example, by a missile defence system. Do you have any information, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u337	Mr. Speaker! This HX acquisition comes a little early in relation to the strategic autonomy debate that has also begun in the defence industry in Europe. I would therefore ask the Minister for an assessment of how strongly European manufacturers are calling for Europe as a whole, the Member States of the European Union, to be more independent in terms of equipment and essential defence equipment, and not so dependent on the capabilities of the United States or other overseas suppliers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u338	Mr President! Good Minister! I hope that this issue of education debt will be closely monitored, both for the reserve and for the garrison, if this interest rate situation is prolonged. I'd like to ask you a few questions. The first of the international exercises: They're dropping quite significantly. What is behind this — can you, Minister, open it a little? And then Sweden's recent international aid agreement is somewhat different from that in Finland. It contains six points, most of which deal with how Finland will help Sweden, and one of them may then be about how Sweden could help Finland. Hain Rebas commented that Sweden is allowed to support Finland by the armed forces if Sweden is not at war itself and if there is no armed conflict in Finland. When you are probably familiar with this, do you see in these documents any contradiction or difference in what we have promised Sweden from international military assistance?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u339	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u342	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for his very thorough work, for example this HX project and its progress. As we have seen, I believe that there are opinions in the government parties that pose some risks to the safety of Finns. What I wanted to talk about is the poor physical condition of children and young people and, above all, the direction we are going. There are, of course, many aspects of this issue that it affects, but in this context I am very concerned about the ability of Finns to defend our country in the future. I do not believe that young people who are increasingly declining and infirm are guaranteeing the basis on which our defence of the country rests at its best. Do you feel, Minister for Defence, that this problem has been raised at a sufficient level in Finland, and can you take this understanding forward within the government, so that the investments in the exercise of children and young people are adequately taken into account from the national defence point of view?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u343	Let us take Mr Vähämäki again, and then the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u344	Honorable Speaker! Here we discussed these flying lessons and how many of them can be flown properly by machines. I was just looking at the prices of flight hours, which they have been in 2017, and then at how much budgeted in the budget, that the current aircraft will be flown: about 8800 hours of current equipment will be flown, and it would like to say that about 130 hours per plane. Now, if you look at these HX fighters, what you're getting, if they're now flying for 40 years at 130 hours per fighter, it's 5200 hours per fighter, and the cost of an hour's flight when it's ten grand, it's going to go up to 52 million. Well, now that it was said here that these planes should have flown more or could fly more, it would like to say that those costs would have increased. Then I would like to point out that at NH90 flight hours cost 16,000,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u345	Mr President! Some of the things I haven't mentioned yet: Congressman Sankelo took out the Kauhava field. It is the earmarking of the Parliament, and this will enable practice there next year. Mr Ronkainen asked earlier about the matter of working time law. There is something to discuss and the problems must be solved primarily through negotiations between the employer and the employee. Partly it is a question of resources, that is also the issue. Representative Kari asked for a bridge to this question of the number of people. I don't have a ready-made model for that. I have said that something needs to be done about it, and the defence report is the right place to think about this bridge issue too, but I might think that we need to gradually try to correct it, perhaps from that year on 24 — if it is not possible to move before — towards the end of the decade, and, in my opinion, there are about five hundred tasks of magnitude that are needed. That, at least from the point of view of the defence administration, that is what we are talking about, and that is related to the expansion of tasks, but there are a number of other reasons for this. Mr Kiuru's observation of that position with regard to the Intelligence Supervisor is worthy of note. To Mr Yrttiaho, I would say that we have had the best military aviation experts in the country working on this, so quite a lot of confidence, however, in the expertise and views — more than in the different directions or in the views of lobbying lobbyists. Representative Ovaska, from the prospects of military crisis management: There is turbulence. The situation in Afghanistan is particularly interesting at the moment. The United States has stated that it will reduce the number of troops there, and of course it will be linked to the situation in that country. Of course, it is to be hoped that the country will stabilise in such a way that it will be possible to leave with a good conscience, but I would say that at this stage it is too early to say that this is the case with certainty. It is also known that there are needs in Africa, for example, and we too have been asked for a long time so that these issues will probably be resolved in the near future, but we do not have a very large amount of resources to put into this in the future. I would like to stress the impact of whatever is being done. Finland is doing an important, good job on this front. Congressman Essayah, this security quarter project is progressing. In fact, the most important thing is the block of crabs, and I remember that it is about to be completed at the end of 2023, but that old building is still in place — so that we should probably start with the fact that it comes first. But the project is progressing, it is in the city of Kaartin, Helsinki. Mr Kiljunen, there are certain criteria that have been examined here in the relevant committees — certain security of supply criteria, industrial cooperation, operating costs must be met. But it is precisely this that performance is what is highlighted here. Then this security policy assessment: all these supplier countries are our key partners, and a certain choice was made at the time when these four countries and five suppliers were selected for this competition, but of course the Government can still assess this if it so wishes. But performance ahead of this issue is being prepared by the Defence Administration. Representative Talvitie, many renovations have already been made to barracks, 19 barracks will be renovated in the next few years. I do not know that anyone is currently being trained in the actual moldy barracks, but in any case, the messages that should be made must always be taken seriously and the problems solved. It is above all how to train the military: we have a parliamentary committee under the leadership of Mrs Kanerva to consider these development issues at the moment. It also involves how to get as much of the age group as possible educated. But the results of this will be heard next year. The Defence Forces do invest in technology in many ways, The Army is also in the process of purchasing. Congressman Ronkainen, good point of view. Missile defence cannot replace HX, both HX and anti-aircraft are required. I would say to Mr Koskinen that these HX suppliers are primarily seeking to meet the criteria set in the competition. At least so far, I think this competition has been pretty cool, and I hope it will be until the end. Congressman Heinonen, you asked me about the quad training, about the fact that it will be less for next year. There are a few reasons, and above all the Defence Forces. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u346	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u347	Mr President! First of all, I only say to this point that each of the five options gives rise to its own dependence. It is not just one country or one supplier that causes dependence, all have the same effect of course. Minister, I would like to expand the debate a little. Even if it is a good buffet table to talk about almost all the questions raised here, one of the things that has come up for me personally lately — not from myself but from my immediate circle — is how long you are in the reserve. I guess now it's like when you get your 60s full, it's smooth. Of course, there is a tremendous amount of willingness, ambition, knowledge, experience that will then be put to an end. Is there any way of thinking that the upper age of the reserve would be raised to 65 years, for example, which would allow a much wider assessment and exploitation of the issue;
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u348	Mr President! The world is changing, it is cliché but at the same time a fact that affects everything, including defence policy and the needs of the Defence Forces, and it must be able to respond to it. You might think that Today the Defence Forces are required not only to maintain and develop the capabilities of traditional defence branches, but also to develop cyber forces. We need understanding and knowledge of what is hybrid influence, what is information impact, and, of course, we need technological systems, but above all we need skills, experts and professionals. I ask the Minister: how will the Defence Forces ensure that there are also experts and professionals in these skills?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u349	Mr President! It is important to safeguard the conditions of Finnish military defence and it is still necessary in this time period. It is important for the defence capability that the skills, the will and the tools are in order. I would like to see a recent review of the National Defence Information Board. Of course, the will to defend the country is still high, but it shows a fall in its support for a military system such as today, especially for young people and women. How does the Minister see that this could be addressed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u350	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Kar for her support, but I would like to say that this is not a question of conviction in itself, but a very pragmatic question, why we are asking for the HX project to be postponed and re-evaluated. This is the background to the concern that, during this ten-year procurement period, when this 10 billion is going to go by, that means that every ten years, there will be a billion less for well-being, education and, Mr Essayah, for those road blocks and even for railway projects — one billion less each year after the start of this project. Then there is also concern about the defence capability as a whole. This is a huge part of the Defence Forces budget, as can be read in those papers, which is then out of the other very important uses that have been brought up here by the representatives. In other words, our objective is to carry out a more comprehensive assessment, to launch it. A very sensible solution for Finland could be that there are fewer fighters, more effective air protection and defence branches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u351	Mr. Speaker! Mr Hopsu raised an important issue, namely our military service, and when the Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee, Mr Kanerva, and the Minister for Defence are here, I would really like to have you — how I can say — confirm that these MTS investigations also contain such a causality, which is not worth drawing too dramatic conclusions on a one-year evaluation. The Finnish military service system enjoys the kind of trust that citizens might call a world record. Yes, you can look for democracy — and I would stress that democracy — in which confidence in your own defence power and ability and the desire to defend your own country is as great as it is in Finland, and that is a good thing. Minister, although the committee work is still ongoing and is likely to be completed during the spring session, or at least next year,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u354	Mr President! The Finnish defence is strengthened by the fact that each Finnish citizen shares responsibility for the safety of our country and feels valuable in defending the country. Finland, which is socially integrated, wants to safeguard and defend everything that is valuable to us: each other, our home, our region, our country, our roots, our culture and our common history. Korona has tested the mental endurance of Finns. Mr Kanerva raised the issue of resilience, endurance, and I ask the Minister: how is mental endurance practiced and strengthened in military service, refresher exercises and continuous learning of the regular staff?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u355	Mr President! The interest crisis has indeed shown the importance of crisis management, and I see the benefits of crisis management in many different ways. On the other hand, this will create the possibility for people living in the midst of crises to live safely in their own region and thus to combat the uncontrolled flow of refugees at the starting point. On the other hand, it also improves Finland’s own defence capability and promotes Finland’s international profile. As you said, Minister of Defence, Finland cannot rely so much on quantity in crisis management as on quality and effectiveness. That's why I think it's crucial to get Finns in charge. How do you see that the Department of Defense can contribute to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u356	Mr President! Mr Ronkainen asked what the full compensation for Hornet's performance meant and then referred to the debate on air defence, missile defence. You replied, Minister, that air protection cannot replace HX, and that is certainly the case, for example, with air control. But that preliminary study by HX clearly indicated that in the wars that have been waged since 1970 to this day, between 0 % and 3 % of the losses have been lost by fighters. Everything else has come with missiles, air defense. In that sense, from the point of view of national defence, this anti-aircraft could be more effective than fighter planes. That is not an open question; we are not discussing it now. I would still like to ask about the full replacement of the Hornets. We had 64 Hornets, and some have referred to it in the same chapter 64 when reference is made to the replacement of the Hornets’ full performance. Is this chapter a fixed number, or do we have a relative estimate of the fact that fighter performance today is different from that of the Hornets?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u357	Let us take Mr Ovaska and then Mr Kaikkonen, Minister of Defence, and then let us go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u358	Mr President! It is very good that Kaustito also supports this idea of crisis management. I believe that we must also be able to think about increasing resources there and that we will be able to take on a stronger role in both military and civilian crisis management in the future. And especially the position of women, we have strongly emphasised and succeeded in doing so, but then these dear EU partners have not been able to do so in the same way and have actually gone in a rather embarrassing direction. But I would like to raise that again, Minister, our neighbour from the West. Representative Mr Heinonen referred here to this line yesterday on the security and defence policy that was adopted there. Now Sweden is going to increase its defence budgets strongly, open up new garrisons, and the NATO option was now included in the policy. It was decided by the opposition. The government opposed it, and the opposition's records put it there. What will these Swedish policies mean for Finland? Of course, it is good there now that there is at least a desire to increase cooperation with Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u359	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Mr Kanerva and Mr Karikin referred to this issue of the upper age of the reserve. It is true that today’s 65-year-old is on average in a better condition than before. Actually, I'd throw the ball back at you. You are in charge of that committee, which is considering the development of military service, and that is something that could be considered there as well. I'm sure that's a very relevant question. Mr Kalli asked about this cyber effect and this theory. The competition for participants is tough in this area, and this was a legitimate issue. But at least so far the Defence Forces have been quite an attractive employer, and people have been recruited. I've already been hired. And as for this parliamentary term, there will be about a hundred more posts for this term of office, some of them will come to this sector. Congressman Hopsu asked about this MTS survey. A few comments — in fact, what Mr Kari referred to: It is essential to look at trends, not just a single year. If a series of several years looks like something, then it is worth more detailed listing, especially when this year has been very exceptional because of this corona virus, which has probably had little effect on everyone's thinking, and perhaps this kind of traditional national defence has not been as strongly in mind as, for example, some years ago. But, of course, we'll follow.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u361	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u362	Thank you. And now let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u363	Mr President! In the Government Programme, the purchase price of new multi-functional fighters was set at between EUR 7 and 10 billion. On 1 October 2019 the Government has raised the price to EUR 10 billion. In the present draft budget, the final price for procurement is not specified. Looks like we're over 10 billion. According to the budget entry, the maximum amount entered in the order authorisation may be exceeded by changes in the currency and cost levels, including the additional needs arising from the increase in the index and the cost of other contracts after the contract, including the purchase of arms and spare parts. As a whole, it is quite unclear what costs the Parliament commits itself to when it adopts the budget. In my view, the order authorisation of the destroyers is not limited in terms of quantity and purpose, as required by Article 85 of the Constitution. It is unclear what these powers include and what they do not. Life-cycle costs, which are multiple compared to the acquisition, have not been reported or estimated and have not even been referred to in this budget. However, according to constitutional scholars, the ceiling for the euro must be set in the budget. The National Audit Office has produced a performance audit report 8/2020 on the Defence Forces performance projects. In its budget opinion to the Parliamentary Committee on Economic Affairs, VTV also criticises the uncertainty and lack of transparency about the costs of the destroyer project. In this report, the Committee on Finance ignores the critical remarks made by VTV. Of course, the committee would have had to request an assessment of the constitutionality of the order mandate. In practice, it is a matter of undermining Parliament's budget. Mr President! I asked Minister Vanhanen yesterday at the sitting how he estimated that Parliament's budget would be implemented in this procurement. Vanhanen stated — in the parliamentary minutes: ‘The final decision will be taken,on the grounds of the natural loss, both the purchase price and the life-cycle costs must be clear. “ I would point out that it is now up to Parliament to decide on the power to order and to authorise cost overruns. The costs are not clear, and the exceedance of the order mandate is no longer under parliamentary control in the future. The powers will then be conferred on the Government, where decision-making is not even public. It is up to Parliament to sign the bills. President! Again, I ask Minister of Defence Kaikkonen: do you admit that the 10 billion that the Government has decided on 1 October 2019 to amend the Government Programme, which is now being proposed to Parliament in this budget proposal, will be exceeded in terms of procurement costs? It appears that the Government Programme is no longer valid for this point. I have tabled an amendment to the budget on the purchase of destroyers. I suggest that the Parliament removes from next year's budget the mandate of the fighters, the acquisition is postponed and an assessment is made of the timing and extent of the replacement of Hornets' performance, taking into account the overall needs for defence capacity development and the state of the state economy. It should be noted that this is the line taken by the left-wing party government at its September meeting. For Finland, a sensible solution could be less fighter, more effective air protection and balanced development of defence branches. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u364	Mr President! In fact, there was a great deal of attention paid to these real estate issues. Of course, it could be said in such a general way, also with reference to the previous speech, that the committee has drawn attention to this draft budget for the administrative branch of the Ministry of Defence, its generality, but it has also pointed out that this is a tendering situation, so that it is not economically sensible to disseminate very precise and detailed information at this stage. However, we must then be able to keep the competitive position on the so-called level playing field that everyone has the opportunity, as it were, to act on the basis of the same background information. In that sense, I think that this is wisdom in this situation. But I still have to wonder: I was thinking here several times when Mr Yrttiaho was speaking in the form of ‘we’, who could refer to this,and then he said that the decision of the Council of the Party was being taken,that is to say,that this is the position of the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u367	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u368	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u369	Mr President! It is important to safeguard the conditions of Finnish defence. A credible defence also brings back in foreign and security policy. I divide the speech into three parts: it is important for the defence capability that the will, the skills and the tools are in order. With regard to the instruments, next year's budget will highlight the HX project, which will increase defence spending in the coming years. However, the cost of a project that is essential for defence capability must naturally be seen in relation to the estimated life cycle of new multi-functional fighters. It is also important that the equipment of all defence branches is up-to-date and functional. Therefore, the costs of using and maintaining the future multi-functional fighter should be kept to the same level. In terms of skills, training is crucial. The increases in personnel and refresher exercises outlined in the Government Programme are progressing, and good. In the end, our defence rests on the reserve people, whose skills must be held to. In addition to the refresher exercises, the voluntary national defence framework and practices must be in order. It is necessary to further develop the Defence Forces interface or interface towards the Reservists in order to fully support the defence. Of course, attention should also be paid to the adequacy and ability of the staff, as the committee also points out. Indeed, the recent review of the National Defence Information Board raised concerns that I mentioned in the debate. Of course, the will to defend the country remains exceptionally high, as Mr Kari said, but it shows a decline in the support for a military service such as the present one, especially for young people and women. The work of the Parliamentary Military Development Committee will indeed be needed, because I see, as Mr Kalli said, that development will be kept with the changing world, including cyber threats, pandemic-type threats and other content that requires new skills and abilities. Similarly, development must take account of the development of broad public opinion and trust, so that the will and confidence of young people are as strong as those of older generations. The compulsory military system cannot be changed in a moment, so the challenges must be identified and addressed in time. The Committee's work is still in progress, but I would imagine that both viable development ideas will come out quite quickly and will be chewed on to develop the whole system without compromising its defence capability.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u370	Mr. Speaker! Maybe just a few more words to finish. Mr Yrttiaho raised these recommendations of the Audit Office, and a few words about them. VTV carried out an initial inspection of the HX project at an exceptional early stage. This has been very supportive of the quality of the HX project. In this audit report, VTV states that the HX project has been carried forward professionally. In the audit, VTV issued three recommendations, which should be taken into account in the further preparation of the project. One recommendation is the recommendation mentioned by Mr Yrttiaho that the Ministry of Defence ensure that Parliament has an up-to-date and adequate knowledge of the life-cycle costs of the HX project when financing is decided in connection with the 21 budget. VTV carried out an HX project on 10 December. a follow-up audit showing how the three recommendations adopted have been taken into account in the implementation of the HX project. According to my information, VTV was satisfied with the implementation of the recommendations. In line with the recommendation of the VTV, the life cycle costs of the HX system have been presented to both the Defence Committee and the Administrative and Security Section on several occasions. In addition, during the presentation of the 21 draft budgets, a detailed memo on the financing of the HX project has been submitted to both the Defence Committee and the Administrative and Security Section. In my view, the HX project has therefore fulfilled the VTV recommendation and Parliament has been informed about the life cycle costs of the HX project in an up-to-date and adequate manner. This is something that each of us can take as he sees fit. It is the right of the MPs and the right of the political groups, but somehow I think of the way in which this HX has been prepared for a long time, several years, and this should not be seen as a government project, let alone as a project for the centre, but as a project for the whole country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u371	The debate and the debate will be suspended and resumed later in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u372	The general debate on Section 27, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u373	Mr President! Finland's defence capability continues to be based on general military duty, trained reserves, skilled personnel, defence of the whole country and a high will to defend the country. The Defence Forces are doing impressive work. The defence of our country must be ensured under all circumstances, both on land, at sea, in air and in information networks — including in times of economic challenge. I am delighted that the committee will add EUR 200,000 to the activities of defence organisations, and specifically to the National Defence Training Association for voluntary defence work and the cost of preparedness. There is a desire to maintain the strength of the wartime forces in 280,000, and the number of reservists trained in refresher exercises will be increased by 300 persons. As we develop refresher exercises, the expertise acquired in the civil life of the reservists should be used even more during the exercises. During the corona, our people need mental endurance. It is an important part of our overall security. When I recently took a national defence course, I learned where all mental endurance consists. In order to be spiritually sustainable in the changing world order and in uncertain times, we need realistic optimism: we face fear, our moral compass works, our spirituality is in order, we get and give social support, we help each other and we accept help, we have sustainable models, we take care of our condition, we are cognitively and emotionally flexible, and we are humor and situation-conscious, and our lives and actions have meaning and purpose. The strengthening of the will for defence and mental resilience must be an important part of the military service and reserve refresher exercises. I am delighted that an increase of EUR 4.4 million is being proposed for the recruitment of contract soldiers. The number of contract soldiers will rise to more than 400 man-years, and this will cover the current need. At the same time, the employment of young people will be promoted. The contract of employment is often six months, and it is carried out as an extension of the military service. This is a fine experience and a deeper learning path forward and acts as a natural recruitment route for various tasks in the Defence Forces. My third son is doing military service at the moment. The rhythm of the service corona-time works well. Every boy has learned a lot during the ministry. New strengths have also emerged. Thank you for the work that seems to the general staff, the feedback from the conscripts is very good. It is great that the University of Vaasa, for example, approves the training of military personnel as direct studies in all fields of education. Although universities are autonomous, I encourage cooperation between the Defence Forces, National Defence College and other universities. Mr President! We have a great country to defend. I wish everyone a peaceful Christmas!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u374	Mr President! We had a little discussion about that section of the Ministry of Defence that was held here a moment earlier, and at least Mrs Kanerva stayed from that previous debate in this Chamber to follow this possible follow-up. I am only raising one big issue here, perhaps the biggest one of all, namely this HX project. It is, as has been said in that previous debate, the largest single investment in the whole history of Finnish public finances, that is to say, a huge scale, and it also deserves this debate and perhaps some questions. Perhaps there are more questions in the air than clear answers, at least in my speech. We recognise the scale of the actually giving around 10 billion orders right now, but we have heard from experts both in the Committee on Defence and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the purchase price for these fighter acquisitions is usually about 35% of the total cost, which means that the whole of this project will be in some 30 billion euros. It will increase the share of defence expenditure in Finland's GDP from around 1.5% to 2.5%, raising Finland's defence expenditure to one of the largest in Europe. There is France and Great Britain ahead, and then Finland almost behind it. In any event, if the scale of this HX procurement, which replaces the Hornet acquisition, is the same, about 64 fighters, then the Finnish fighter fleet, that is to say the whole fleet of fighters, will be the largest in Europe if the countries with their own fighters are excluded, and then Greece, which has many fighters in relation to the other NATO country, Turkey, will be excluded. In other words, this scale can be seen: Finland is investing heavily in defence at this point, and now also in the Air Force. There was a debate here on what political decision-making can draw attention to. We recognise that it is limited how decisions can be made in Parliament clearly here when it comes to the acquisition of fighters. We can end this scale: now we are about to give it 10 billion. We can put an end to this timetable: it is now in this budget that it will be decided that this procurement will be launched at this stage and that these Hornets will be replaced here. The third issue facing the political process is, of course, where those machines are to be purchased. We have five bidders and four different countries that are offering us these fighters. Of course, performance will have to be set first. When it comes to defence equipment, of course, their performance is an important factor, but there are other factors on such a scale, and of course, Mr President, one big question, if we really talk about life-cycle costs at the level of 30 billion, is what the nature of this industrial cooperation is, and 30% of it. We are now moving on to the fact that this is what we want to do, but the big question is whether we will then be able to keep these criteria strictly in order to get at least one third of this to the country of origin, and that is probably where the different fighter manufacturers will be able to indicate what this dependence is. But Mr Kanerva presented the second corner of the big issue here, namely the link between foreign and security policy. We automatically recognize that when we acquire such a significant section of Finnish defence materials, i.e. now these fighters, this has its own strategic addictive effect. And Mr Kanerva then went on to say, when this observation from this Chamber was made, that ‘yes’,thatthereis no strategic dependence on the same direction of the air,in all directions,whereever — when these countries are being purchased from abroad,that they can be prepared as a whole,and that they cannot be prepared. It is bound to create addictions: both in maintenance, maintenance, education systems and their use as well. That is an important point now, and that is something that might perhaps be worth analysing in more detail, but, Mr President, I see that time is running out. [First Vice-President AnttiRinne : Time spent. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u375	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u376	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u377	Okay. — Mr Kanerva, please. — — — — After this speech, if you do not have any particular willingness to come forward, you can talk about your place for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u378	Mr President! It is not the first time that this number of people on the ground are dealing with these issues, which of course is not a credit to Finland's foreign and security policy. President! However, I will look at a slightly more general picture and, if necessary, we will go to that HX acquisition separately. I personally believe that it is strategically important that defence policy and foreign policy go hand in hand. The history of Finland knows the stages when this may not have been the case, and today it is a fine element, but it is an element which must not be allowed to escape from its own perspective. It is important to stick to the fact that foreign, security and defence policy form a whole in which the various elements support one another, and that the basic analysis is the same one that can be expressed at the moment, perhaps in a way that the Finnish environment is not quite as peaceful as it should be, especially in a situation where our international systems, our contractual systems and our institutions are not at such an acceptable angle as that of a small nation, a small state. We are living in a certain instability and a difficult phase in our security environment, and could it be said that the key factor in its transformation is that there have been certain changes in lighting on the grand stage. It is not exactly the same as it was four years ago, for example, and it has meant a tightening climate in international politics, which is also not in the interests of a small nation, a small state. Our strategic position on the map is such that these changes are rather sensitive to northern Europe — not only the Baltic Sea region but also to the wider Arctic region, the High North, or how that region would now be called. There these changed conditions in the Great Power Stage are reflected in a rather clear way. I strongly believe that the first of these should be that Finland will never go to war. But it does not want to be a sufficient princess in that if something happens in our security environment, it cannot stop touching us and we must be able to react to it. Therefore, one post in this matter is not enough to safeguard Finland’s independence, our national integrity. That is why this debate on the defence side and the building of its philosophy is absolutely essential to us too, especially since Finland has become an influential, key player in the European Union and the EU's own regulations apply to us on the same level as to other EU Member States. We are in a situation where military use of force against Finland is not an option that can be ruled out, as we naturally hope and as we must strive to contribute. Personally, if the European Union is to be a serious, serious player in relation to other key global players, by which I mean, of course, the United States, China and Russia, the European Union should, for example, at the moment very strongly develop its common crisis management policy, as it is currently being done in the EU Member States per Member State – in principle. Security of supply is also one thing that has not been discussed here today at all. I will not go into its content any further, but I will make a brief comment on one point in the course of time: What is a little worrying about this section is the reduction in the number of joint international exercises. It is explained on rational grounds, but it cannot be in any way advantageous to the country that previously marketed itself as a great peace-keeping power. International defence cooperation is a very important added value for us, in addition to our own national military capabilities, because it together creates the deterrence, the deterrence which, in the case of all countries, is very important in order to safeguard stable conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u379	Mr President! Mr Kanerva started by saying that foreign and security policy is a whole to which defence policy is also linked, and none of these tracks can go against each other, but only support one another. That, of course, is the essence. The core of Finland's security policy is precisely how we ensure Finland's security, integrity and how to ensure that Finland stays outside the wars. That is the starting point, the first objective, of course. History has told us that Finland as Finland is not a threat in any direction. But history also tells us that Finland's territory has been exploited, and the darkest figures in Finland's history — as you clearly described in President Mauno Koivisto's memoirs, the authors of History book — are those stages when others have exploited Finland and Finland has been drawn into other people's wars. This is of course the most critical point here, and the fact that Finland's territory cannot be used against anyone, including in this current Government Programme, is very clearly recorded. This is, of course, the starting point for everything about how Finland is positioned. After long wars, Finland's policy of neutrality was to ensure that Finland does not want to participate in or even take a stand in the conflicts of power, but to avoid and avoid it. The policy of neutrality, of course, changed in the early 1990s when Europe lost the dividing line of the Cold War to which we wanted to distance ourselves. On the other hand, it was realised that crises and conflicts are non-military and should not be sidelined, but rather that we should try to help in situations of problems, crisis situations of a non-military nature, such as environmental damage, environmental problems, falling crises, refugee flows and so on, many, many problems that are critical. In this respect, neutrality policy lost its ground. The third dimension is, of course, membership of the European Union, because we are involved in a common security and defence policy within the Union. These removed the policy of neutrality, but they did not eliminate the approach that Finland does not want to participate in military alliances, because then Finland will easily become a party to a potential conflict, especially if the superpowers end up in confrontation. From this perspective we will also have to look at large arms acquisitions, including this acquisition of HX — and now we will come back to that question by Mrs Kanerva. From all directions, if these Hornets are acquired, it will generate strategic dependence. From Finland’s point of view, the primary starting point for this acquisition is the defence needs of the country, and we will assess those fighters from Finland’s visional angle of how it best defends the needs we have — in this case in relation to air defence, but above all to the defence of the country as a whole. Now we have to look at that strategic dependence from another angle: not at the way Finland views it, but at the way that the other side views it. From the Swedish side, it is viewed in the same way as in the recent defence report. There the update of defence policy, which was just adopted in ricksdage in Sweden, was based on the assumption that if Finland acquires a Swedish fighter, it will strengthen defence cooperation between Finland and Sweden and also defence industry cooperation. As far as the European angle is concerned, today we are often talking about strategic European autonomy, whether Europe has its own ability, both in terms of competition policy and defence industry, to be an autonomous player, and we know that these European fighter providers make it clear. We know, in particular, that Eurofighter — if you bring up one fighter under this heading when it is a four-country cooperation project — that it is the crown jewel of European defence industrial cooperation. From that point of view, it is the most advanced cooperation project within the framework of the Union. If you invest in that angle, then the European angle looks at it like this. This would strengthen the European strategic autonomy. In this respect, it is also part of the Union's structures if a French fighter, Rafale, were to be found. The United States is, of course, the only party in which this negotiation process is also conducted directly with the military regime. Finland does not negotiate with the equipment manufacturer, but with the military administration. It is an American custom in these matters, and in America it was also carefully chosen by Congress where it was placed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u380	The general debate is closed... - Excuse me, Congressman Kanerva, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u381	Mr President! I do not want to delay this debate here, but I will say that there are at least a few parties in Finland who are concerned about these fundamental issues. I have a great deal of sympathy for the way in which the HX project has been studied and how, both during the previous government chaired by President Rinne and also during the current Social Democratic government, this has been thoroughly, properly, responsibly addressed and is being carried out. It is not a small thing in Finland, it is a huge big thing, and Hatten av for it. The security policy aspects of this issue are those which may not have been the subject of a very broad debate, but, as Mr Kiljunen, among others, went through some of these effects and reflections a moment ago in this Chamber, so I assume that a calm debate will also take place in Finland on some scale, and that will then be evaluated in that light. I think it is important to note that these assessments must be made from a very strategic point of view, they must be made from a long-term perspective and entirely from the point of view that all five different supplier options are in real terms possible alternatives for Finland to be redeemed, because I understand that this initial assessment has also been made as a result of very thorough consideration, so that these five suppliers are the ones for us that Finland can rely on when necessary when it comes to the actual procurement phase. But if a debate can take place in such a proper climate, which has now been possible around this issue today, then a good one, but there is one question left in the air, and that is that, by a single government party, policies were put forward which, even with the best will, cannot be understood to belong to the repertoire of the government party and to the arsenal with which proposals are being made here. I am surprised how the government of the country can keep its mark, how it can keep its course if one major government party here bends out in a way that is completely out of the question of what the government itself does and does. I would hope that the government, for its part, will want to believe that the Government's foreign, security and defence policy line in this key security policy procurement will be unambiguously clear and strong.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-16-ps-167.u382	I too would like to thank Mrs Kanerva for both the speech you have made and the attitude you have. You have led the Committee on Defence, and I must say that when I follow the debate within the committee, you have managed, as chairman, to raise the level of its debate. This means that it is easy to agree with the view that we are trying to reason on these issues, so to speak. We represent different parties here, but on these big issues we do not represent different parties, but we are, in fact, — now a little military term — ultimately in that same trench then, if that moment comes. And, of course, the moment will not come, but we will do everything we can to make sure that we can look through these things together. It is important that we recognise the scale of this HX project and that it also deserves a proper debate. There is still time for that debate in part and we will have to consider these options. I myself raised this, or indeed, during the debate, also, in my own way, a sensitive question which will be resolved next year: what is the destroyer? The Minister of Defence here today said very clearly that all four of these countries, which have now been admitted to the final stage as serious bidders, are partner countries for Finland. And that must, of course, be recognized when we think about it, that we cannot build a confrontation here at all, but that we must recognise that we are still dealing with actors with whom Finland is also contractually involved in defence cooperation, and that, of course, must be assessed from this perspective. Yet it is justified to think a little about what it means when this scale is so great. This is a really large scale also on the part of the country that offers it, not just from the point of view of this buyer country, Finland, where we will, of course, have to think about how this overall strategic concept will emerge around it — not only will we have to assess that performance, but also what the employment and economic effects for Finland are, because that is also a big, large-scale issue.
