ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 15/2020 vp. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, a 45-minute debate will follow. After the debate, we shall move on to the general debate, in which the speaking time allocated in advance may not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u2	President! The Government's proposal for the fifth amending budget contained only written increases, most of which are due to statutory changes. At the same time, the revenue estimates have been updated in a positive direction. The most significant changes concern value added tax and increases in income from corporation tax and insurance tax of almost EUR 1 billion. The largest expenditure increases are proposed for support for renewable energy production and are particularly important for the financing of the temporary epidemic compensation of EUR 60 million. Temporary epidemic compensation will support the most economically vulnerable persons and families in society in a situation where the limitation measures resulting from the covid-19 epidemic have resulted in extra costs. In addition, compensation will be increased for the costs of the corona virus epidemic for agriculture, horticulture and rural enterprises. In turn, the appropriations are reduced by the correction made in the second amending budget of 20 to the compensation paid by the State to municipalities. The State compensation to municipalities for the loss of tax revenue resulting from tax base changes was increased by more than EUR 500 million. However, according to the latest estimate, changes in tax payment arrangements will only reduce the tax revenue of municipalities by EUR 114 million this year. For this reason, the compensation will be reduced by EUR 433 million. However, in view of the weak situation in local government finances, the Committee stresses the importance of timely support for municipalities and structural reforms. All in all, the fifth amending budget for 20 will increase actual revenue by EUR 1.021 billion and reduce appropriations by EUR 238 million, reducing the need for net government borrowing by nearly EUR 1.3 billion. The central government's net borrowing this year is estimated at around EUR 17.6 billion. The amount of central government debt at the end of 20 is estimated to be around EUR 124 billion, which is about 54 per cent of GDP. With regard to this technical amending budget, the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Finance is that Parliament approves the proposal for the fifth amending budget for 20 years contained in the government proposal, subject to the changes indicated in the report above, and Parliament decides that the fifth amending budget for 20 will apply from 5 October. This includes three objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u3	Now I ask those representatives who want to use the reply to the question, to stand up and press the V button from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u4	Honorable Speaker! This is where the chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen, described and opened up this additional technical budget quite well. Indeed, this also includes opposition protests and statements. What is central to this is that there is a real need to stabilise public finances in some way. A long-term plan would have to be put in place and then the public finances in Finland would be stabilised. The tourism industry and tourism in Lapland, which are mainly Finnish tourism industries, should receive some kind of support measures. Business support for travel service companies would also need to be planned in the future. Then one part of this additional budget was these wind power subsidies. We therefore propose that the Government should immediately launch a project to reform wind power subsidies,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u5	Mr President! In the past, Minister of Finance Vanhanen, you have shot down the idea that Finland would not only revive spending but also give people more room to breathe with their own work: more money would be left in hand, less taxation on businesses would be reduced. We have proposed a substantial reduction in wage taxation. You've said it doesn't make sense. Is it really the case that you believe that Sweden has chosen the wrong path here? There, next year, the Swedish average wage and salary tax will be reduced by approximately EUR 300 per year. It also reduces employers' contributions and believes that this is the way forward. In fact, for example, the President of the centre of Sweden said that this is the way to create activity, employment, purchasing power. Do you have exactly the opposite view of the Swedish Brotherhood?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u7	Mr President! I believe that this amending budget is a direct continuum for the good and timely policy of the government to take the necessary action quickly, quickly. Employment has been improved, bankruptcies have been prevented, businesses and people's livelihoods supported and, of course, health measures have been taken. In this supplementary budget it is precisely this element of income that is highlighted by this appropriation for the increase in temporary income support. This is where the tax revenue is estimated to be slightly higher now because of this business side. The estimates showed that, in fact, less than estimated companies have used these possible payment arrangements, which in itself is a good thing. That is why this compensation for municipalities is being corrected, but it is important to note a good point elsewhere, that is to say, we also have to take care of the services of residents.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u8	Mr President! It is very good to note that companies have applied for less payment arrangements than expected in the spring, and this needs to be greeted with satisfaction. However, the role of municipalities may become more difficult, despite the fact that in many ways municipalities have now been taken into account in these amending budgets. I believe that the government will be very vigilant and monitor the finances of the municipalities, and it may not be until next year that those difficult times are ahead. It is also important to take into account Finnish winter tourism, and we now have an excellent opportunity to attract a lot of winter season tourists who, in normal circumstances, would choose another destination, because in many other countries the corona situation is clearly more difficult than ours. But here, too, I believe that a good government will work and that this issue will continue to be resolved for the better.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u9	Mr President! In this time period, tackling the epidemic is the most effective means of economic recovery. At the same time, there is also a need for targeted ways to keep the economic wheels running. And indeed, as Mr Kiviranta described, municipalities play a very central role in this. Municipalities take care of the well-being and working capacity of Finns, but also, to a large extent, of acute interest rate measures, and it is therefore important that the Committee on Finance, too, in this report, pay attention to the correction and continuous monitoring of the economic situation in the municipalities, so that it is not really possible for the municipalities to manage the epidemic and, at the same time, keep the economy spinning. It is noteworthy that the interest rate may hit the economy most in Finland later than elsewhere, because a large part of our economy relies on the sale of investment goods whose demand typically stalls later than, for example, the demand for consumer goods. That is why it is important that we now create that long path forward. Let's do what we need to do with the interest rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u10	Madam President! For the time being, Finland has achieved a reasonable degree of success in the fight against corona, both in terms of health effects and in terms of economic impacts. But just as Mr Suomela said, the more difficult times for the economy through the export industry can be ahead. Well, what do we have to do in this situation? I think it is excellent that this supplementary budget supports the most low-income people who live on income support through the payment of epidemic payments. In view of that, I was surprised that Mr Mykkänen was calling for tax recovery in this situation. At the same time as the Coalition Party opposes the payment of epidemic compensation to the most low-income groups, the Coalition Party proposes, among other things, a tax reduction of almost one billion on the most high-income groups, a reduction of almost EUR 1 billion on inheritance and gift tax at the initiative of the Westend National Society and, in addition, on car tax, and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u11	Mr President, värderade talman! Den femte tillaggsbudgeten för detta år innehåller endast brådskande och nödvändiga tillagg. En av de större helheterna är det tilfälliga epidemstödet på 75 euro till personer som erhållit utkomstöd under våren eller sommaren.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u12	Madam President! The debt because of the interest rate situation and the economic situation in which we are and what we are looking at now is, of course, understandable to a certain extent, but to counterbalance that, the government should have already achieved credible employment decisions and decisions on structural reforms. It is therefore extremely worrying that the government failed to take the most important decisions in the budget debate, leaving them to the working groups which have so far been unable to make proposals. And now that this is the case, the corona epidemic seems to be getting worse — in many places already at the point of acceleration, perhaps even at the stage of spread — this does not make things any easier. In other words, we now need urgent decisions from the government, and that is why we have drawn attention to this in our own protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u13	Madam President! Here the government has been pleased that the companies have not used the aid offered, and it has been heard that it is a good thing for the government, but this is not the case. That is a sign that government support is poorly targeted and that the support programme is poorly drafted. It should not be surprised that companies have not thought it appropriate to postpone their taxes and take interest of 2.5% of it. When the distribution of these interest subsidies to businesses at all has been rather difficult and it has been said that it has not always gone to the top of the list, I think it would be a good idea to go so far as to forget this ultra-left policy and genuinely see what tax reductions could also be offered to companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u14	Mr President! The action of the left-wing government, now that the corona crisis has been prolonged, seems to be well illustrated by the fact that people react when they come when factories are shut down and bankruptcies are out of work. This amending budget also targets measures in the event of bankruptcy. Of course we must do that, but our biggest concern, Mr President, is that this government will not, for example, work in Lapland to ensure that, in the winter, there will be no unemployment of 8,000 to 10,000 people. A solution is needed to enable charter travel and I would like to ask what measures are being taken to achieve this. And as a second event area: It employs 175,000 Finns in Finland. Now these jobs are under critical threat, and I would like to ask Mr Vanhane, the Minister for Finance, what kind of action you are taking and whether there are any for you:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u15	Mr President! This amending budget really reduces the estimate of this year's deficit. We need to see what's in the background. In other words, the background is that the Finnish economy did better than anticipated in the second quarter, wages and salaries have been paid, and companies have not had to apply for payment reductions. So you can say that Finland has survived at least this first wave relatively well. For example, if we compare Sweden, EU countries, Japan, the United States, Germany — not to mention Great Britain and Spain — we had the lowest drop in GDP. As far as I'm concerned, this criticism of the government's mismanagement... If you look at international comparisons, this government has handled the crisis fairly well. That is why this debt is now decreasing. But, Mr President, I must say,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u16	Madam President! As we have said, the reasons for this temporary payment for epidemics are misleading. They suggest that the aid would be targeted at people who have incurred extra costs, but this is not the case; rather, it is directed to those who have received income support before the interest rate. Of course, their position is not enviable, but it is difficult to see the connection here as a corona. The True Finns have argued that this similar support would be channelled through municipalities as discretionary complementary income support to people who, in reality, have experienced financial difficulties as a result of this particular corona epidemic. We have pointed out on various occasions that 50% of income support recipients in the capital region are currently foreigners. This amount is increasing all the time. Maybe there's a reason why.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u17	Mr President! It is quite clear that we must take on debt in order to cope with the corona crisis, but it is quite clear that employment measures must be taken. And there has been great concern as to why the government, even before the corona, moved employment measures. Why did you then take action to reduce employment? And you will continue to do so. We have considered and experts have considered that it is because the glue of this government is that we are able to distribute money but cannot take employment measures. But now, Mr Lindtman, you said it out loud: that is why you do not do it when you are satisfied, when hundreds of thousands of people are unemployed. Long-term unemployment is increasing, youth unemployment is increasing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u20	Madam President! It is true that the corona certainly came as a surprise to all of us and has been responded to. Local government finances have been strongly taken on board and supported by the municipalities’ ability to perform their tasks. Companies have been paid compensation for the disturbances caused by the interest rate, which is the only way forward, because if companies die, they will go bankrupt, which means that once the interest rate situation subsidises, the company will no longer exist. So it's done. You could say as if a ski jumping judge would say about this situation that the jump has been good, but at this point you cannot give final points yet. But what needs to be taken into account in tourism: I am admiring the activities of Finnish tourism entrepreneurs last summer. In my municipality of residence, for example, one entrepreneur was a little terrified of what would happen. But as it turned out, there were so many domestic tourists there that in practice that place was almost sold out all summer. And I just read in the paper that the same phenomenon is being developed in Lapland for the next winter, so that it is not worth starting to paint the horns on the walls now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u21	Mr President! In this broader debate on central government finances, it is also important to pay attention to the transition that is taking place. When much is said of the fact that nearly 18 billion are now in debt and 10 billion next year, this year this is largely a short-term rescue operation, which has been created in many ways. But that priority will be transferred to recovery funding next year. And the wiser we are to spend this debt money, the more certain employment and the economy will improve. There is a great deal of pressure on both the government and the opposition to apply for effective medicines. In this context, however, it is good to thank the State Treasury for the fact that it has been possible to extend these maturities quite quickly in relation to the central government debt, and it is now relatively evenly established up to the 40th century, in the context of favourable interest rates, and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u22	Mr President! I too would like to see much more Nordic cooperation — if it were to open the eyes of the SDP to what kind of policy could be taken in Finland to bring the economy back to growth and activity. In Sweden, more purchasing power will be gained for families and working pensioners, consumer purchasing power will be increased, for example through lower wage taxes, pensions and the increase in the household allowance. These means could also be used in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u27	Mr President, once again I repeat what I said in the debate on referrals. I expected that the first amending budget in the autumn would have had employment measures in this area — but no, there is once again a distribution of money. It is good to note that now that we are heading in the corona towards the second wave that is bound to come at the moment, all the more so then the distribution of money must first be well thought out, and then, when it is done, very carefully targeted, which has not been successful at the moment, for example, in this income support. On the other hand, I would like once again to raise my amazement with this FinnHEMS issue: the liquidator suggested that the State would not buy itself airlines, but that the State went and bought a helicopter company, and it is quite impossible to understand in this economic situation whether this was a reasonable bet. Here's a question that could be asked by the merry-go-rounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u30	Mr President! You might want to remember that FinnHEMS is about medical helicopters, not other types of activity, that it is probably one of the central functions of the state, that we have health and safety through this. In fact, this debate clearly shows two different ways of dealing with the crisis. The government has focused on the fight against the interest rate, because in the end it is the best employment policy in this time period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u33	Madam President! It must have become quite clear that the Finns and the Coalition Party together revive the poor by impoverishing them. It has also been your strongest employment measure for a very long time, which in fact does not lead to it at all. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u35	Madam President! Indeed, in that Committee on Budgets we felt that this was largely such an additional technical budget, but, at the same time, we had to prepare the actual budget for the coming year, and that is why at least the Christian Democrats had great expectations that either of them will now be employed, and I must say that it was a great disappointment that neither of them is in sight. Until 2030 we will then have to wait, in the future governments, for employment measures to begin to take place. The problem with government policy is that although there are good things in this amending budget, such as this temporary payment for epidemics, at the same time people are eating the purchasing power of citizens: eating with the pump more and more to fuel, eating with the fact that heating is increasingly expensive and also that we have, for example, a rise in social security contributions for work. In other words, the purchasing power is being taken away from the citizens, and then, at the same time, the competitiveness of companies is in trouble,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u36	Madam President! The opposition parties' protests have little to do with this amending budget at hand, which is of course a tremendous shame because we are moving forward with important entities, such as compensation for the costs of the corona virus epidemic for agriculture, horticulture and rural enterprises and compensation for the costs of the most needy. I listened to Mr Tavio, the Finns of Finland and the Coalition Party with a sensitive ear, and you are now proposing tax cuts to my ears for the well-earned while we are living in the heaviest corona age. In my own province, for example, we have just received a decision to dismiss 260 workers following the dismantling of the Scania plant, and we currently reserve EUR 1.5 billion, for example, for the costs of vaccination due to the interest rate. These equations are very challenging, and I would therefore like to see realism instead of a very right-wing economic policy on the current state of affairs and the perception that there are many people who need help at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u38	Mr President! Of course, the short and long term comes together: the stronger the career of the future, the more carefree the money can now be spent. Of course, the key variable for the future is permanent employment growth. And I am afraid that the government does not insure either the ratings or the investors here. You promote the employment decisions of 36,000, which, however, have been conveniently included in the lower limit decision of the pipeline already taken in autumn 2019, but if this is the case, of course all the other decisions that have so far had a lasting impact on employment should be included: the dismantling of the active model minus 5 to 12,000, the buy-in mine5000,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u41	Madam President! I have tried to insist on the principle that I am mainly pointing out the policy and arguments of the government and of my party, which is central to it, but sometimes it is also necessary to draw attention to the opposition's arguments. A direct quote from the protests of the Finns: ‘The proposed epidemic allowance is also not directed at clients in a particularly difficult position. — — — — I mean, are the recipients of income support not in a particularly difficult position?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u44	President! The bonus paid to those receiving income support has given rise to a wide-ranging debate here in Parliament. As has been pointed out, the Finns of Peru suggested in their protest that the appropriation may be increased in accordance with the government’s proposal, but its allocation should be decided by the municipalities on a discretionary basis, i.e. to allocate it to those who have suffered the most from the corona. Many experts have also wanted to be targeted. I would like to raise one more point about the distribution of government money. Minister Ohio's comment in the evening paper on 21 September. ‘In the budget dispute,the government is responsible for the distribution of funds to the municipalities,andthe over-the-counter ‘The distribution of money is certainly important from the point of view of municipal elections’.’ It is quite shameful that government money should now also be used to conduct elections here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u45	Mr President! After all, the situation is that corona pandemic is a huge global crisis that has affected people's well-being and coping in an unprecedented way. And, as has been said here, the government has made a number of amending budgets to resolve the acute corona crisis and to facilitate the position of those in financial distress. The aim is for businesses to survive, jobs to be maintained and municipalities to be able to look after the well-being of their residents. This is what the government will continue to work for. — — — — I'm sorry. I seem to be having a hard time breathing with this mask. — In this fifth amending budget, a key contribution of EUR 60 million is a temporary payment for epidemics to support the most vulnerable. As far as these subsidies are concerned, I think it is very important that they are always targeted as well as possible at those who need them most, whether people, municipalities or businesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u46	Mr President! However, there is still very much in memory of the emergency government, where there were 60,000 unemployed people in the country. There is also a memory of the fact that, under the leadership of President Ahtisaari, a special task force was formed in the early 1990s to deal with the huge unemployment in the country at that time. Now I am a little sceptical about it — there are some old ministers of work here in the Chamber — whether it is theoretically possible that the measures taken by the Ministry of Labour in this area could be achieved, and I suspect not even by government intervention. I know that even in a pressured field there would be a willingness to look for solutions on a slightly wider basis, on wider shoulders, which could also be structurally targeted at unemployment. Minister of Finance, why this type of measure does not exist
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u47	Mr President! Again, this debate on the disease compensation on the left-hand side sounds like I would like to ask why you do not raise the level of basic security permanently.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u50	Mr President! But is it possible for me to speak this way that my mouth may be seen? This is really hard for me to talk about. Mr President! When you listen to this opposition talk, there is an overwhelming amount of gloom. I think Mr Grahn-Laasonen said that we should reverse this economic cycle in a situation where we see that the government's action against the corona virus itself has been exceptionally effective if we compare with other countries in this terrible situation, not to mention in economic terms: we have done better here than in practice all the other analogue countries. Which way should we turn this economic cycle? Is it what has been said here that the coalition is pushing the line of cutting off those on low incomes?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u53	Madam President! Somehow, this epidemic compensation pain, often expressed by the Finns of Peru, is peculiar. So your will — correct me if I am wrong — is that it should be done on a discretionary basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u58	Mr President! Now I have to say to Mr Lindén that the attack is apparently the best defence. As I have already said in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, this whole bill was very poorly prepared on a very short time-frame. The fact that Finland is starting to share social security without means-tested is unheard of.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u61	Mr President! When Mr Kiljunen said here that the opposition, especially the coalition, is gloomy, the fact is that when you look at these figures here, the state is in debt, but there is no employment measure. 17.8 billion is net debt, and, as Mr Vartiainen said, these employment measures are even so small that the real figure could only be 5000 jobs as a result of these measures. We in the assembly have presented a programme that could bring 120,000 jobs. Mrs Filatov also said that the best management of employment is the management of the interest rate — I agree, but only in part because, as we know, we have a lot of problems that existed before the interest rate. Structural reforms in the labour market and in the world of work are needed, and now all we can say is that, unfortunately, they are shining by their absence. But, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister: what are you going to do about the interest subsidy, about the sector of events and the travel agency sector, which are almost completely without subsidies at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u62	Mr President! I believe that Mr Sarkomaa himself knows that he has carefully misunderstood. Of course, the fact that Finland's GDP has fallen below the reference countries gives a reason to judge with satisfaction what has been done so far, but no one has claimed that someone is satisfied with the economic or employment situation that lies ahead. But all the more so, ladies and gentlemen of the United States, as you now see the challenge of this to public finances over the coming decade, that the debt ratio can be stabilised by the end of the decade, and you have presented a reduction in car taxes, taxes on transfers of funds, inheritance taxes, billions of income taxes and, in particular, income tax for the well-off, which you have recently presented, I would ask the Minister of Finance: do you see the possibility of making billions, billions of billions of income tax reductions in this decade and the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u63	Mr President! The government has sometimes regarded the Coalition Party as a spoiler of joy in this ‘Hello,we’re lendingandretrievingits election promises’ in the centre. That's what it sounds like. In the opinion of the Assembly, the economic crisis caused by the interest rate must also be dealt with, but at the same time there must be a credible plan to balance the economy and it is still lacking. It is also missing from this amending budget. Billions have gone by, but I would also like to ask, within the framework of this amending budget itself, a question of one hundred million, which sometimes, ladies and gentlemen, was regarded as a large sum in these debates. A further EUR 104 million will be allocated to wind power production as a result of the fall in electricity and allowances prices. What do the years to come look like for this moment? What does the electricity market look like? Will this decline continue to grow, or are older wind turbines starting to fall from fixed-term support?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u64	Madam Speaker! Bring EUR 75 epidemic compensation for those who have received income support before the corona crisis
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u67	Madam President! The fifth amending budget for the current year will continue to correct the damage caused by the interest rate. Since every euro spent on recovery can only be used once, we must take a decision at a time to combat the economic recession and the climate crisis, along with the interest rate. Reconstruction must be done on the terms of the future, not of the past. The amending budget provides for a doubling of the aid rate for the abandonment of oil heating. This will speed up energy renovations in municipalities and households and create the necessary jobs for sustainable development. The government is also concerned about social sustainability. The temporary epidemic allowance proposed in the amending budget will help those who have been hit hard by the corona crisis. We cannot afford to leave the human debt of correction to future generations, as was done in the recession of the 1990s. Even the municipalities and medical districts are not left alone to survive the corona. The opposition has criticised the fifth amending budget as too technical. However, the focus is now on the necessary budgetary needs in a situation where:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u68	Madam President! The Coalition Party would dramatically increase its debt by tax cuts, even though there is good evidence that spending recovery is more effective than tax recovery. We have spent less than average money in Finland, we have been less indebted, and yet, on average, the results have perhaps even been the best in Europe. It's strange that you can't do this. In fact, even though service industries are in trouble everywhere because of the interest rate, regardless of the government, in the spring of April-June, the profit rate was higher than once in ten years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u71	There will be another response to this debate, followed by Mr Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u72	Mr President! Mr Saramo spoke about the fact that it is precisely those entrepreneurs who have encountered the interest rate that should be supported. I can tell you about a physiotherapist who has worked a lot with Kela's customers. It would well have been assumed that he will receive this support from sole proprietors, but according to the instructions of your government he will not receive it, because he has had one person working three days in January as a matter of urgency. That's for Saramo. I would now urge all of you to take a look at the Laffer curve and how this tax revenue will be high. We've already passed that jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u76	Minister Vanhanen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u77	Mr President! Perhaps, however, the main message from this debate and from Parliament's deliberations is that the additional budget is accepted as such for the appropriations, there are no amendments to them. A few comments on this debate: Mr Vähämäki and Mr Sankelo raised a significant increase in the feed-in tariff sum for wind power of more than EUR 100 million. Its argument is that the price of electricity has fallen and the price of allowances has fallen as the production of wind power increases. Although it is a large sum, on the other hand, electricity consumers, on the other hand, electricity users have also gained significant benefits as the overall price of electricity falls. In other words, the feed-in tariff system that was introduced at the time has produced us a huge amount of new electricity generation, has reduced the costs of all electricity users, and this has been paid for. However, that system has already been changed and entered into force on 1 November 2017, so that no feed-in tariff has been granted to new ones since then, but there are old ones. Congressman Sankelo asked me what rate they were going to drop off. Twelve years of contracts, gradually, but I don't have a more specific curve on this. There were several speeches on income tax, the recovery of income tax. My position and the position of the government in this situation is that our basic analysis goes so that the main reason for household consumption behaviour is currently the uncertainty created by the general situation, the feeling of insecurity in the face of this epidemic, and we do not have the impression that the income tax reduction would trigger consumption and would create the positive effects that exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u80	Now we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u81	Madam President! Just a brief word for this tax debate: I am sure that we could agree in this Chamber that it would not be good to increase costs, in other words to eat the purchasing power of our citizens. And that is why the Christian Democrats are concerned that the only thing we can see at the moment is that, through the tightening of various charges and different taxes and social security charges, we are losing the purchasing power of our citizens. This is not a good development, and that is why you can think of the counterweight to whether targeted tax reductions, such as child reduction, would still have had some benefit that would give citizens the power to buy, for families who, at this time, have certainly had to bear additional costs. Madam President! I object to the motions for statements in which Parliament requires the government to take immediate action to achieve comprehensive and effective employment measures, and Parliament then also requires the government to draw up a plan for budgetary consolidation. And, Madam President, as the third final statement, Parliament requires the government to begin to correct the production aid for renewable energy, which, in its present form, is causing large unforeseen expenditure in the state economy. And, as the Minister of Finance has said here, we in the Committee on Finance also looked at this point: yes, when the 100 million suddenly throws in the state economy, it is a big throw, and in that sense it was of course good to hear when the minister went through thoroughly, which is why. But these types of throws are in this situation — and they are in the normal situation — too large. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u82	Madam President! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 2 to the objection. All in all, this objection to the Assembly includes six proposals for statements, which include, among other things, the presentation of employment measures at this stage — which should have been made much earlier, and which have also been made decisively. I cannot fail to comment briefly on the above-mentioned debate and the idea of Finance Minister Vanhanen, which draws close to such an ideal of lust taxation. I think that reference to the back of the ocean might have been inappropriate in some way. It must be remembered that last season, while the centre was still in the middle and in the same government as the Coalition Party, the tax on labour was reduced by one and a half billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u87	President! The interest epidemic has put the economy on the line. It has also made budget funding tear apart its connections. The foundations of society have been in trouble, and the government has not been able to look at it from the side of the dive. Let's talk about measures we've never seen before. Including this budget proposal, the government will support municipalities and hospital districts, for example, this year and next year with approximately EUR 2.9 billion. Everyone in this Chamber knows its necessity; supporting municipalities and hospital districts is at this point a patriotic act, the size of a person’s better daily life. We probably have a broad consensus that the management, interest-rate testing, tracing or vaccination of local government finances must not be caught by the fact that the government does not issue any chips. We're in debt, but there are other countries in the same swamp. In addition to billions, it is good to look at the sovereign debt also in relation to other countries. The EU's financial package and the decisions of individual countries clearly indicate that we are now reviving. If this were not done, we would leave not only the state but also the individual person to his own devices. It would not be a welfare policy, it would be an anti-emetic policy. President! Support for municipalities is at this point in human government policy. We know that the finances of municipalities have been in problems for a long time before the interest rate period. Unfortunately, financial difficulties have also led to the fact that many municipalities are now laying off their staff. The effects of this are directly on the skin in day-care centres, schools and social and health services. President-in-Office, the government is now stepping up against this trend. Its aim is for people's basic services and municipal workers to shake hands together again and therefore have enough hands to do it. The wheels of society must be kept rolling and its pillars set up. I would like to thank the government for its efforts to save the economy — and here, in particular, the local government economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u88	Madam President! I support the proposals made by Mrs Essayah, the number one, the number two and the third by Mrs Essayah in the protest of the Christian Democrats attached to this report. Our particular comment in this first draft statement was that the government should indeed take immediate action to achieve comprehensive and effective employment measures. In view of this economic situation in which we are now in, our parliamentary group has supported the government in these main lines of the additional budget, where interest rate measures have led to further debt. These measures have been necessary and necessary in this situation, but in addition to these, it is essential that employment measures and structural reforms should be accompanied by confidence that this debt will also be able to be paid in the coming years. In particular, we need measures to increase labour supply, labour mobility and to improve incentives to take up work. In this context, I would also like to speed up this social security reform, which would aim to increase these incentives to take up work and remove obstacles. I hope that this social security reform will not become a project for several parliamentary periods, but that it will make better progress than has been achieved in this social security reform. However, entrepreneurs are constantly to be informed of where they are staying to promote local reconciliation. And even within the government, at least from some parties, these have been promised throughout the year, but no decisions, unfortunately no proposals have come. In addition to this, there is a need for more apprenticeship training, and I propose this step-up for these traineeship salaries, and, of course, there is also a need for more investment in support and guidance. Similarly, there would be a need to reform and step up earnings-related unemployment security. And then, yes, the government should now humbly look again at the cuts in the household allowance and also at the tightening of fuel taxation, because they have again hit the ears with these employment objectives. I therefore believe that these should be taken into consideration again. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Finance whether you have familiarised yourself with the Estonian model of an entrepreneurial account. There has been introduced such an entrepreneurship administrative burden-reducing entrepreneurship account, where a natural person can open such an account without registering as an entrepreneur or keeping records of income or expenses, and everything happens automatically through a business account. In other words, for example in the building, renovation, childcare, cleaning and so on, this type of work, which does not involve high business costs, can be carried out without separate administrative measures and reports and accounting for this business activity, thus increasing entrepreneurship and reducing the black economy. In other words, many measures could be taken if only decisions were taken. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that there has now been a debate here on this temporary payment for epidemics, which is in itself something to be welcomed, and this is supported by our group, but the unfortunate fact is that only a small part of this is targeted.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u89	Mr President! If economic crises are not handled well, they will hit the most vulnerable of all. This happened both in the recession of the 1990s and in the economic crisis of 2008, and, unfortunately, we continue to pay a price in terms of humane and economic costs with increased custody, mental health problems and incapacity for work. These problems should be avoided in the future, especially in order, for example, to enable more and more Finns to work. Social workers as well as teachers raised this same concern during the early spring, and THL has also pointed out that the worst of the corona crisis has been experienced by those who were already worse off. Many essential services, such as Kela's offices, bread queues and social services offices, closed their doors, and the use of remote services, especially for the most vulnerable people, such as the elderly, unfortunately did not go right away. The services of the homeless were restricted, the violence of their families increased, some of the students fell from school to school altogether, and this problem was highlighted especially in the case of the children of their poorest families. We cannot afford to lose any children or young people, but, on the other hand, a well-being state does not leave any adults in its gutter. That is why this government prioritises helping the most vulnerable Finns in particular. This was already visible last autumn when the government raised the level of basic security. However, there are people who fall through the net of basic security and primary benefits, whose income is not sufficient to live without additional support. For them, we have a well - thought - out income support. The argument that the basic element of income support is not also strictly necessary is unambiguously wrong. It is quite the opposite. I wonder what it feels like to be the Finnish person seeking income support every month who provides his accurate accounts to the authorities constantly to prove that without support he cannot buy food and medicines, he cannot survive his rent, is a risk of homelessness, hunger, sickness. These are the people to whom income support is directed, and it has been sad to see that this sometimes means forgetting in this Chamber: it is clearly not all of us familiar with the everyday life of the poorest Finns. Nevertheless, we must be able to make decisions that keep them above the surface — otherwise we will pay an expensive price, both humanly and economically.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u92	President! It has been said here that listen to the experts. Here are a few quotes regarding this 75 euro interest rate subsidy. ‘But is it targeted at those who are most affected by the It is true that recipients of income support are the poorest of all beneficiaries of different benefits. However, it is less clear whether the recipients of income support have suffered the most from the epidemic. And why not use existing means of social security?” ‘In the case of an epidemicremuneration,it is based on the fact that the current socialsecurityrequirements which could lead to an increase in the cost The proposal provides misleading information in this regard, since supplementary and preventive income support is precisely intended to respond to such situations. At the end of March, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health issued a number of recommendations on the treatment of income support in order to take account of the exceptional costs created by the epidemic, e.g. in home meals for schoolchildren.” ‘Epidemia compensationis focused on the situation in which the worst stage of the first wave of the epidemic in Finlandis On the basis of the proposal, the epidemic compensation appears to be a subsidy to compensate for the effects of the spring epidemic period afterwards. This ex post nature of the compensation and the current epidemic situation have not been addressed at all in the government proposal, so the justification for the compensation scheduled for autumn remains very inadequate. “ ‘The temporary epidemic compensation would have been more effective for the financialdisadvantages These have been written by Heikki Hiilamo, Research Professor, Social Policy Researcher, THL and Jussi Tervola, Research Manager, Health and Social Economy, THL.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u93	Mr President! First of all, I support the proposals made by Mr Heinonen. Then a few words on this tax debate which has been taking place in connection with this amending budget, because it still seems that, although decades and centuries are moving forward, nothing has changed with regard to these views on the sides of this Chamber either. The left is of the opinion that there is a cake that remains unchanged in all circumstances, despite changes in the operating environment. We just go ahead and do not listen to what is happening in the business world, for example. Then let's share the money with the people who need it. What is special about this coalition of governments is that the centre is now locked in the board of directors with this view. Mr President! The Assembly therefore believes that there is a need for incentives for this baking of the economic cake, so that perhaps more can be allocated in the future to good destinations and purposes. I'm sure there's plenty of them. In this context, the right targeted tax reductions are precisely this type of incentive — and there are studies about it: they encourage activity and work — and this too should also be in the toolbox of the left-wing government when it is once possible. In this regard, it was perhaps a little strange that my Minister of Finance, Mr Vanhanen, in his reply, saw this question rather as a zero-sum game, i.e. we have a certain amount of x tax revenue, then when taxation is calculated, then it automatically decreases. In other words, we do not see the effects of tax reductions on tax revenue. It is admittedly disappointing to the assembly this way of thinking, in which the assembly is then still scolded, that you are pushing for those things of the better-off when it is not about that, but we are looking for activity, a new job for Finland with which to work. Finland will rise after this chastisement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u94	Madam President! I will continue this debate on this subject. I have not prepared a general speech in which I would like to present this matter myself. That's what I used in the referral conversation. Mr Koponen has just quoted experts, whom we have listened to widely on this issue, that is to say on this epidemic compensation, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. It is true that some experts had views on how this could have been better targeted. But when we look at the overall picture that we need to get this to people quickly, just as Mr Vanhanen pointed out in his speech, this proposal as a whole was considered to be sufficiently targeted and, above all, timely. I think it is wrong to say here that this is based on the situation of people before the corona crisis. This is based on income support received during the previous month, and every previous month, however, has been behind this period of interest. The fact that I was perhaps particularly critical of the Finns of Peru is that, when this was in the referral debate on 1 September, the day we started this September session, I was quite startled by what Mr Halla-aho said — it was, by the way, at 2:28 p.m., I read it just now in the parliamentary minutes — because there was such a strong message that this was the wrong measure because it was a transfer of income. This is the same in your protest: ‘All income transfers are paid in the last five months from the flower of those who are working, and one person is excluded from the This is in a certain way, as is the case with the fact, but it was precisely on your part that this kind of transfer should not be made, and now that this matter has been dealt with in committee, that you are in fact in favour of this transfer, but you would like to do it differently. So, in a way, this has now been driven as on two wheels: on the one hand, criticized transfers of income, on the other hand, thought that we should be a little smarter now and support this on a different basis. With regard to the opposition to the Assembly: I am not going to prolong the speech on the ground any longer, but I would just like to say that it is above all related to the general economic policy line, and that is something that can be discussed even more extensively here. As far as tax rates are concerned, I have just checked the OECD's last statistics: Sweden's total tax rate is 43.9, Finland 42.4, so that there is certainly now a chance to lighten by one-and-a-half percentage points of GDP in order to reach the level at which Finland is currently in the overall tax rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u95	Mr President! The main criticism and problem with the government's management of the interest rate economy relates to the lack of employment measures, to the lack of important structural reforms which, when these employment reforms are lacking, will in practice lead to us constantly discussing aid and emergency aid in this Chamber and there is no credible prospect that would also signal outwards from this house that Finland can make it to a path of sustainable growth. In other words, there are no reforms, nor are there credible plans for how this indebtedness development will break down in Finland, how we can strengthen our public finances, so that we will have to finance the sustainable, important services of our welfare society in the future, and so that we can create faith in Finland's business field that it is worthwhile to continue to employ in Finland. We will not be able to move forward from this period of closures and spirals without these necessary reforms, and unfortunately there was no hope in the budget debate here, but we can actually say that the opposite happened. I pointed out in the debate how differently the Swedish economy is managed, how differently it sees the economic consequences of the corona crisis. I assume that the Swedish road to the economy could be our way too: more purchasing power for families, working people and pensioners. There would be an extension of the household allowance here too, as the Coalition Party has persisted. To reduce taxation — I wondered what the finance minister, Matti Vanhanen, said about not being seen as an effective means. Sweden has a completely different view of this, and in our recent history, too, there are examples of how reducing the tax burden on labour increases the dynamics of the economy, increases employment and brings new people back to work from unemployment. In other words, credible employment reforms are now needed to create more jobs and prospects for more people, to increase activity in the economy, to increase entrepreneurship, to increase sustainable growth. If we do not succeed in these reforms, next year's Parliament will be in front of the Finnish record of debt-taking to deal with subsidies and emergency aid packages. It is such a gloomy prospect that, fortunately, there is an alternative to it and it can be found in the draft statements submitted by the Assembly for approval. We therefore propose, in the context of this amending budget, the following measures: Correction of cost support, so that it also serves tourism and cultural sectors, for example. The fact that cost support has not been used as much as anticipated does not necessarily tell us at all what the need for it is in the field, but may tell us very much that it has not all been a working instrument. The same was apparent with regard to the VAT payment scheme. We were already proposing zero interest rates at the committee stage, which would have been a clear welcome for companies. Not only did this presentation come very late in the House but it did not allow us to help companies in the worst of times, but we also thought that this tax rate, 2.5 per cent, was too high, and that is what it looks like now in the light of the results. In addition, a credible way is needed to ensure a safe and easy travel model in order to cope with this crisis in the growing ecosystem of the tourism industry in Lapland and the rest of Finland. We need a plan to stabilise public finances, improve Finland's competitiveness, boost business investment and improve employment. In addition, the coalition requires that the government promptly bring forward proposals for employment-enhancing reforms with a scale of at least 100,000 employees during this term of government. This scale, which the government has aimed at with the decisions of the budget line, which is 30,000 jobs, is far too modest, and that too, unfortunately, was a failure of the government. I hope that these statements will stimulate debate in this Chamber and will also cause the government parties to think that we cannot continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u96	Madam President! There has been a good and proper debate here today on the economic situation of us in this corona period and on the actions of the country's government and, in part, on the actions that have not been taken in the midst of this crisis. I cannot help but say that this is the background to the debate, that it is also good to remember where we left off before this crisis. The government had decided that it would aim for a high employment rate. A clear employment target had been set: 60,000 new jobs. But when this government began its work, instead of deciding on these measures, all these activities were pushed into the tripartite preparation, and this was almost a year and a half ago. Last spring we discussed these measures, where they are, and last summer the government decided that it would set a higher employment rate target in the forthcoming budget debate. And now, after the debate, when we look at the results that the government of the country has achieved, there were only about 15,000 new employment decisions, and in itself, although the objectives and issues themselves are important — that is to say, the reduction in early childhood education contributions and the provision of resources for the TE administration — those measures are precisely undermining public finances and not strengthening them again. In practice, therefore, the government of the country has not been able to take the important steps to strengthen our fiscal base and, in addition, these measures have been pushed back into the tripartite preparation process, which has not produced results during the first year. I would like to make an example of this, Madam President, of the local agreement on which we have made a joint vote among the parliamentary group on a legislative initiative. It includes the entire Christian parliamentary group and also colleagues from the Finns Party and also one of the MPs in the city centre. I very much hope that this matter and initiative will move forward within the government, and I do find it a little unusual that the government has pushed this issue back into the trialogue rather than just making a decision that non-organised companies should be able to make use of local reconciliation. It would facilitate the position of many smaller companies in the midst of this crisis and also encourage entrepreneurs to recruit more people in the future. I believe and hope that now, however, Minister Vanhanen will take this message seriously and other things, because the fact that the government is the top of the aid category does not give us much comfort, but we must improve the running quite a bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u97	Mr President! I would like to continue the debate on tax reductions, because the Coalition Party has proposed that tax reductions should be made in the order of EUR 1 billion. Our explanation for this is that through this we would be able to increase the purchasing power of people and the people themselves would decide what is being revived in the country, and the state would not decide for them. I personally find it somewhat offensive that accusations have been made here that we are targeting these tax reductions only on the good people. Our policy is to treat all hard-working people in this same way and to get tax cuts for everyone. Finally, when the Minister of Finance said just now that a tax revenue of EUR 5.5 billion in this respect could not be pinched by a billion, because then it would also be a gap of the same size on the income side. I would remind you that from the beginning of 2014, the corporation tax was reduced from 24.5% to the current 20, and that in fact the corporate tax revenue has increased over the years. It was EUR 4.4 billion then and EUR 5.7 billion in 2017. And, of course, if we look at these tax reductions, then it is worth talking about capital income taxes too, because at the moment we are in a situation where corporations of general interest, such as the Ay movement, are receiving tax-free dividends, and it is estimated that they are worth 500 million per year, probably more at the moment. I have noted that there is a mention in the government programme that a 5% withholding tax might come into use, but if we look at the taxation of other dividends and the taxation of capital income in general, 30%, 34% is the level that should be sought. Mr President! However, the most important thing for us political decision-makers is to consider how we can get jobs and investment here in Finland. Industrial companies that consider Finland as an investment place value sustainable and long-term economic policy and that labour prices, raw material prices, logistics costs, energy costs and so on are at a moderate level. If we look at the Finnish debate now, unfortunately, the speeches about a six-hour working day do not encourage these investments. We need more flexibility in the workplace and in the labour market, and the debate must turn towards real investment in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u98	Mr President! In this recent debate, the government asked what direction the coalition wants to turn the economic cycle in the right direction. The Coalition Party wants to turn the economic cycle towards more Finns having jobs. It is the only way that the Finnish welfare society can be safeguarded and funded in the future. The interest-rate crisis is an unpredictable crisis, and it has been necessary in an acute situation to absorb debt to cope with it. It is important, however, to allocate resuscitation to temporary, not permanent, additional expenditure. I hope that the government will be able to reconsider whether Finland too should take the example of resuscitation from Sweden. It creates employment, purchasing power by reducing the tax burden on labour. The most important thing in Finland now would have been that, in addition to managing the interest rate situation, employment decisions and structural reforms were taken. However, instead of these, the government has only been able to take debt, postpone employment decisions, plan lust taxation, cut the household allowance. Mr President! However, the only way to safeguard the Finnish welfare society and its financial base is to take credible employment measures in order to improve employment, and to establish the entire economic policy to ensure that more and more Finns have jobs. There is also an alternative to this current government line. The Coalition Party has put forward credible measures to create the conditions for the creation of more than 100,000 jobs. I hope the government will take action. There's a lot of ways on the table. Now just to take action on employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u99	Mr President! Oh, the amount of tax populism in the coalition! I must say that in the last government — or I am talking about Sipilä’s government — where the assembly had the seat of the Minister of Finance, the assembly did not even promote tax relief for high income earners. It was agreed then that the solidarity tax, which was meant to be temporary, would have been abolished, but the Coalition Party did not stick to it either. The actions have been quite small when the coalition has been responsible. Of course, everyone can list what taxes can be abolished — there is no realism in this situation. I believe that there are also many very discerning people in the assembly who understand that at least this time this timing went wrong. In other words, the Coalition Party is offering tax relief of over EUR 4 billion — now that all of these are collected. State income taxes are likely to be in the category of EUR 45 billion, at least, i.e. the loss of taxes of around 10 per cent. And here there are many things: a general income tax rate, then a marginal tax rate of 50%. I think that too is much more relevant where the 50% begins than what the percentage is, if viewed internationally. Then there is the question of abolishing inheritance tax and gift tax — an extremely popular and populist proposal, which we cannot afford at the moment. Then giving up car tax — very populist. However, this would be replaced by an increase in the fuel tax on transport and an increase in the annual vehicle tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u104	Mr President! The main question is, of course, why you, the good government, are sacrificing employment in order to remain united. I believe that there is an agreement with the Minister of Finance and many other people in the centre, in particular — unfortunately, there is only one of them in this Chamber — that the employment reforms could now have been carried out. Here earlier, some on the left pointed out that it is time to revive. Why on earth would it exclude simultaneous decisions on the reforms that will then ensure that within a five-year radius we get at least 75 out of 100 people of working age, we will save more than 100,000 people who are unemployed because of corona from long-term exclusion back to their own feet, to work, and at the same time we will save the financial foundations of the welfare society? In the early days of September, the Minister of Finance himself said in this Chamber that he felt that the debt ratio of 75% would be the maximum that could be taken at reasonable risk. These are the things he shoots over. With these actions it is overshooting, and we do not need savings for this year in particular, but we need the work that has not been done, the employment reforms. We have presented a clear list, which is publicly available on the Internet, of over 100,000 — exactly 118,000 — workers. At least take half of it. Now you only have one-tenth. And when we are stuck here discussing income support, the essential question is how to raise people to work on their feet, not the details of whether to help them like this or that. It's irrelevant. As such, when we are talking about subsidies, look again at whether it would not be worth continuing to access unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs without pitting up the business. That will end in December if you do not make any new decisions. Taxes: This is an important situation in which we are going to have a permanent higher tax rate after the interest rate, or to be able to move towards Finland, where employees are more left in hand. I was surprised just now by the Minister of Finance's reply at the end of the debate, in which you went on to say that, not only in this cyclical situation, but as if a permanent reduction in income tax in Finland was the wrong and unreasonable way to maintain the current state income tax revenue. So is it the case that the city centre in Finland is in favour of an increase in the overall tax rate? In any case, municipal taxes will rise in the next few years, we know that, and the reform of social security will increase them even further, especially in the big cities. Wouldn't it be entirely logical to go down here? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u105	Mr President! After all, this draft budget is mainly technical, but it has been overlooked that there is also aid for businesses, namely EUR 30 million for tour operators, in particular for agriculture and forestry, which I hope will also be supported by the fur industry, which has been excluded from all these subsidies. I think Mr Lindtman quite well described how, from the point of view of the interest rate and the economy, Finland has managed — with all the indicators in a reasonable way to compare Europe-wide. Well, then to this rather cheekless argument, Mr Koponen, that the government is conducting a municipal election campaign with the support of municipalities. I don't understand. [Juha Mäenpää’s interlude] It is good that, in addition to the municipal package, the government has also been able to support municipalities and correct the cuts that the previous government made to the education sector: there is a future investment in the high school quality programme, special groups' money, group sizes' money. And it is of the utmost importance that we, on the other hand, on the education side, be able to build the future if we take on a further increase in the compulsory age. In other words, while the municipal economy is being supported in this crisis, the government would then also be able to build a future in those municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u106	Madam President! Here we have heard again that the government has irresponsibly increased government spending. I thought to myself that, at the mouth of the opposition, more testing was required — well, the government is now putting a billion and a half extra money into testing. It took money to put the local government finances in order — well, the government is currently putting a billion dollars into our economy as a whole. Other interest payments have taken from half a billion to one and a half billion. The fighters require us to take over one and a half billion more debts. Apparently, the opposition now wants the Hornets to be replaced by paper drones, and that is no longer the case. So you don't really know what you want here and what you don't want. However, efforts have been made to keep Finland’s wheels running and preferably to enable companies to cope with this. There too, EUR 2 billion went for direct payments. So, in a way, that money has not gone blank and has not been blown into the wind, as is implied here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u109	Madam President! Just a few more words about taxation. Mr Kiviranta, who I directly respect, is actually inspiring me to take the floor when he was guilty of such a traditional cry for help from the ranks of the centre in recent days, which is a forceful attack on the coalition without telling us all the right information about our tax policy, and it seeks to conceal the confusion that the party is obviously currently struggling with when they are making a policy which their supporters do not actually support. Representative Kiviranta well remembers how during Juha Sipilä's government, the tax on labour, on wages, was reduced by almost EUR 1.5 billion. Forty thousand people were able to work, the public finances were significantly strengthened, and this line could have been continued, but this government decided to choose quite differently. Well, as far as labour taxation is concerned, we are well aware that the European Commission, the OECD and others have paid attention to Finland's high and tight wage taxation. That is not something that we in the opposition have come up with, but a fact which has also been brought to the attention of the Finnish and Finnish governments from a very wide range of points of view. As far as these rates of marginal taxation are concerned, I recall that the VM's working groups have put forward this point, that is to say, the reduction of these maximum marginal tax rates to 50%, many years ago. That's not new, either. It has been on the agenda a lot, much before. But all of us are concerned that everyone should have the opportunity to get along with their own work, their own salary, and it is not, of course, that a tight wage tax is somehow a problem for wealthy or high-income Finns, but it does apply to ordinary working Finns, such as employees who earn 3300 euros a month. If he makes another 100 euros, almost half of that raise he gets will go to taxes. You may ask, Mr Viitanen, if you find this encouraging: Does this encourage people to make more effort, to study, to take more responsibility in working life? Is this really the line we support? Let me conclude by saying that in Sweden the left-wing government has taken another completely different path. That's where the government calculates people's pay taxes, increases household deductions. The only question arises as to why the same responsible left-wing forces could also be brought here to make decisions in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u110	Mr President! This was a good time. When this government policy is being criticised so much here, I would, Mr President, like the assembly to have some overall responsibility for its own proposals, namely that I quite rightly listed a number of very strange contradictions that can be found in this period when you look at the economic policies of the assembly. In the spring, when the government increased spending on municipalities, businesses, the well-being and education of young people and children, the chairman of the Coalition Orpo announced that he was opposed to such an irresponsible financial slingshot. The Coalition Party objected to the irresponsible financial link in the spring, i.e. additional funding for education, among other things. Well, in itself, when the place of action came, the Coalition Party did not propose deductions to this money, but at the time of last Christmas I thought that I would sometimes need these papers. [ Talker shows papers] Last December I saved Mr Heinonen's budget proposals, in which he proposed hundreds of millions of euros more spending on the budget last Christmas — here I still have them. I will also be able to submit these draft expenditure increases for last Christmas to the Minister for Finance for evaluation. [Muykkänen’s interlude] At the same time as you are making significant expenditure increases, on the other hand, you are opposed to this irresponsible financial link — which, in your opinion, is, among other things, the government's contributions to education, the well-being of children and municipalities — you are proposing billions and billions of dollars in tax cuts. Just now we heard that they are very focused on the well-off.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u111	Mr President! In my first speech in this connection, I said that this fifth amending budget is technical and then there are three substantive issues, but for understandable reasons the debate has gone in the direction of general economic policy. Now, in my own speech, I would like to say a few things about it myself. After all, there are six statements in the opposition to the Assembly. Two of them reads as follows: ‘The government’s credible way of ensuring safe and easy travel in order to deal with the crisis of This is certainly what we all want, and that is what the Council of State has dealt with, but I think everyone understands seriously that we are in a very difficult situation in Finland and in the world at the moment. After all, these rates have been such that the number of infections in Finland over the last two weeks now exceeded a thousand. In the previous two weeks there were just over 500 infections, and in the preceding two weeks there were just over 300. In other words, the situation in Finland has in practice doubled over two weeks. What, then, about these other countries, which were mainly to come to Finland? There is a situation in England where the assembly limit of more than six persons has been declared. So no matter what you do and you can do, as you say, this will be very challenging for the tourism industry. This is not to the least of my desire to show approval for this situation, but to understand its pain and I feel it as much as I do. You have to think about all the possibilities, but I quoted that phrase from the statement of the Assembly because it is so easy to put this sort of statement, but of course making these things concrete is then much more demanding. As far as this general situation is concerned, it could be summed up in such a way that the right measures must be taken at the right time. Now, however, we are living in a situation where the corona situation deepens and worsens again. What are the right measures for economic policy then? I have been very sincere in trying to find out for myself, for example, how the employment rate has behaved in this situation. That was 72.1 percent in January, to which it had risen in two years, actually from 69. Now it fell — the latest data from August is 2 percentage points lower than it was a year ago in August,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u112	Mr President! As far as the amending budget is concerned, I was thinking at this point of asking the Minister a couple of questions that people in Ostrobothnia are really waiting for to answer. In other words, when it comes to companies and how this society is being held up, we have heard from the ministers about that box when the corona situation hit, that no Finnish-friendly company will be allowed to go down. We have a lot of livelihoods in Ostrobothnia that this has hit, as in the whole of Finland, but I am now taking a rather targeted example of this request because hundreds and hundreds of people have been in contact with me. Let me take an example of fur farming. This is what has been promised and promised at that grassroots level, and now we are in a situation where the majority of this industry has fallen into real distress, i.e. virtually had to stop. It has been said in this Chamber that interest rate subsidies should be targeted precisely at the companies and branches most hit by the interest rate. I will take this example now because what is more likely to be hit by an interest rate than by an industry whose entire trade will be closed down? In other words, the Copenhagen auctions, for example, were completely cancelled, the producers were left in the hands of the goods — the disastrous situation. Last week, I got my hands on a list listing the recipients of interest rate support in the Central Ostrobothnia region. I read quite fervently and was relatively horrified when I found that fur farmers one after another — one after another — had been abandoned. Yeah. We have three ministers — the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry — from downtown people. I would have liked a bit more to have been done for the rural economy. I am now asking — and I really hope that a line will appear in the amending budget to support this industry, which produced 312 million directly from outside of Finland last year, with its exports of good money — why this industry could not be supported. Ladies and gentlemen of the centre, was this a political decision? What did you get in place to let this happen? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u113	Mr President! Minister! Very often, here in Parliament, people talk about domestic industry and how important it is to favour domestic production. I am speaking here now behind the Chinese breathing mask, which has been bought with tax money, and I would like to ask the Minister a very simple question. Perhaps the most exemplary and most important thing to do in the interest period would be to favour domestic production in favour of domestic employment. Would it be possible for a tax-based parliament to give an example of domestic respiratory protective equipment? Minister, how soon can this matter be resolved? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u114	Mr President! Here the representatives of Kyllönen, Viitanen and others here asked what the taxation of lust is, what the people of the United States have been referring to here. Well, I think it's a fact that if someone like a schoolteacher or a paper machine encounters 45 percent extra earners, extra income tax rates, then it's lust tax. As a country, we have drifted into lust - taxing. If the teacher did a little more, or even if the operator of the paper machine did a little more, it would cost almost half of the monthly salary of EUR 2500 already, and the 50 % marginal tax will come at about EUR 4000 per month, and there is still no mention of Donald Trump's income, to which Mr Vanhanen, the Minister of Finance, has referred in particular. I still wonder how the centre in Sweden has specifically called for its support for the government led by the demars to reduce the tax burden of some EUR 300 in Sweden, and in Finland today I was surprised that it was obviously not just the business line, but the more permanent line is that income tax should not be reduced. Someone here proved otherwise, but the reality is that today, for the average person in Finland, more than EUR 2000 per year is left in the hands of the less than in Sweden, so the Finnish average earner pays clearly higher wage taxes as a whole. In Sweden, the overall tax rate may be slightly higher — I think it was Mr Kiviranta, who read such a figure — but the average wage tax in Finland is unquestionably higher. This has been the case for years and, unfortunately, next year – even this year, it has increased, but especially next year – the gap seems to be growing. Sweden lightens, especially in Finland the tax companies of municipalities are rising. Is this the centre's contribution to this government and to the affairs of this country? And when you here pollute the target programme of the Coalition Party with the long-term objective that the marginal tax rate should not exceed the 50 %, in Finland it will actually be full at a monthly salary of EUR 4000. Sweden is clearly at a lower rate of tax on additional incomes at the same level. We agree that, in accordance with the Nordic welfare society, particularly well-paid people must pay a significantly higher income tax rate than others, but the speed with which taxes grow with average income is a draining problem in Finnish society. The last thing that has been said here, Mr Lindén, is that the problems of tourism are naturally corona-related and, of course, because that is the background to why tourism is currently in difficulty, but it is worth noting that there is no need for us to be able to cope with domestic problems as well as raise our hands so that nothing can be done. Now that the government is preparing, as the Minister for Finance has announced, a new updated version of general support, which will certainly take more account of the situation of new restrictions on tourism and certainly on restaurants, we would strongly argue that it would also include such measures in relation to active business and demand stimulation. Could we have a service voucher, a voucher, to support domestic tourism, which many have spoken for here today? Among other things, Hoskonen trusted that domestic tourism would replace foreign tourists. It's not gonna happen by itself. Could it perhaps be voucher to order restaurant food for people at risk, that is to say, some kind of expansion like a household allowance? These would also be things that would make the service sector develop new innovations in this winter of idleness, rather than just passive artificial breathing. Industrial policy is also an important part of how to deal with this. For example, Lauri Kajanoja, adviser to the Board of Directors of the Bank of Finland, estimates that competitiveness is falling by about two per cent, and there are no easy drugs for this, of course. But one thing we have been wondering about is that the Minister of Transport and Communications, under the leadership of Minister Haraka, was already preparing a law on the abolition of fairway charges, but it disappeared somewhere. Mrs Kausto, a representative from the Coalition Party, has also taken an initiative on this in April. Wouldn't this be one of those exacting drugs?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u115	Mr President! It is true that the Coalition Party wants to reduce the tax burden on labour. On the contrary, we want to tell all Finns that this is the line of the Coalition Party. We are in favour of a policy that encourages work and enterprise. We want more people to be left in the hands of their hard work and work. This means that the Finnish economy will also become dynamic and that people's purchasing power will be increased and this consumer demand will be fed, which has now deteriorated and is a problem in Finland during the corona crisis. This is what the Swedish left-wing government and the centre of Sweden now believe in: the reduction of taxes on labour and hard work. The situation here in Finland seems to be quite the opposite. Frankly, I am not surprised that the Finnish SDP and the left, the Greens, are also in favour of tax tightening instead of reduction, but I am really surprised that the Finance Minister, Mr Vanhanen, and the Centre, have also taken this very left-wing line and path. In your debatable speeches, you raised the positions of the Assembly and the tax initiatives we have taken. I would like to say to them that if you look at those details, that is, what we are actually presenting, there are structural proposals that could replace these problematic forms of taxation that we see, that is, compensatory measures have been proposed. Let us take the example of the replacement of inheritance tax by a tax on capital gains and, for example, on labour taxation, we have suggested that the focus should be shifted to the detriment and consumption side rather than to tax hard work. With regard to the car tax, I would like to say that there has also been some sort of proposal about it, as it were. But what is it really about? It is a question of how Finland can achieve climate and environmental objectives. In Finland — I myself come from Forssa and we come all over Finland — we understand that Finland has long distances. People are forced to drive around here in the future. We must have structural proposals, including those relating to taxation, that guide people's movement in a less emission-free and emission-free direction, and that is what our proposal for a gradual abolition of the car tax is all about. New cars — we want them to be available and available to everyone, not just those on good income. [Aki Lindén’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u116	Mr President! The Coalition Party now speaks beautifully in the Chamber of the low-income and middle-income groups and its own target programme. I cannot help but commenting on the fact that now that the Parliamentary Information Service has lowered your income tax bill, in which you would ease income tax by EUR 835 million, 83% or 700 million of it would go to the highest-income decile, i.e. the best-earning 10%, so I find it quite incomprehensible that you are talking about low-income and middle-income earners. As far as the abolition of car taxation and compensation for it by increasing fuel taxation are concerned, this is where the bill would be paid for by the rural areas of Finland, by those who use the most cars and those who, even after the abolition of the car tax, do not have the opportunity to buy that new car. The abolition of inheritance tax — those talks about it are quite irresponsible, and the Confederation of Taxpayers, for example, is not in favour of abolishing inheritance tax. Personally, I am in favour of its relief, and it is appropriate to have a debate on it, but if the inheritance tax were to be abolished completely and replaced by the proceeds tax, then even in this case the bill would be paid by those who receive small inheritances or medium-sized inheritances which are currently exempt from the tax at present. So, in this case too, you would be increasing the tax burden specifically for those on low and medium incomes. It is quite incredible politics, especially during this corona period, to bring such incomprehensible presentations to the table, and I really hope that you will now genuinely examine those calculations of Parliament's information service as to what this proposal of your income tax would mean. That would be a reduction in income tax from that cigar stairwell.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u119	Mr President! It is not intended to prolong this debate, but I would just like to say briefly, as I said earlier, that I believe that these contributions from the members of the centre tell us that the centre is in an existential crisis, stuck in a government whose policies are not supported by its own supporters, and now we have a huge attack on the coalition which, as Mrs Grahn-Laasonen has said here, is honestly and frankly saying that we are in favour of reducing the tax burden on labour for all income categories. But, of course, Mr Kärnä, we will not be suggesting that only these higher marginal tax rates are calculated. This is totally fuula. You're deliberately twisting things. A year ago, in the alternative budget, we have proposed a reduction in income tax of around one billion, which would have been evenly applied to all income categories. I urge you now to wait until we have a new alternative budget and then you can evaluate its policies, what comes out of it. I would also like to say to Mr Viitan that this year we have seen a reduction in the taxation of labour: this is not the case, Mr Viitanen, but already this year we have an increase in wage taxation of EUR 2650 per month. This is because the government of this country made a clear choice in it last year and they did not want to compensate all workers for these growing side costs, which leaves less to the hardworking Finnish this year than they did last year. This is the kind of policy that this government is doing, Mr President, and we want to represent in this Chamber a different, diligent, working line and defend our own views proudly and directly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u120	Mr President! This is starting to happen again last autumn, when we had a lot of this debate in this Chamber, and it became quite clear at that time that the tax solutions adopted by the government for both employees and pensioners were relaxing for the low and medium incomes, but then these overall effects were made up of the kiky-links of the previous government. After all, the great pressure of the coalition, the pressure on forced law threats, among other things, was used to cut off hardworking nurses and other vacation funds. And so it happened that kiky came through and agreed on an increase in social insurance contributions during the previous government, and the result showed the handprint of the Coalition Party. This is what we talked about several times last Christmas when we were discussing the state budget. In other words, this has now gone a little further, but let us repeat it now, President, when we once again spoke of these arguments by the Coalition Party. And yes, it has been social justice for us in this government and the fact that relief is focused on low and middle incomes and that a high-income person can carry a somewhat greater burden in itself. And now it has just become clear that the tax proposals of the Coalition Party are directed at more than 80% — am I right to hear whether it is possible? — the highest income.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u121	Mr President! To the end of this debate as soon as Mr Marttine here accused us of giving false information: I'd be happy to show the assembly these calculations of Parliament's information service. Indeed, they show that the total impact of the income tax proposal, which was included in your target programme, i.e. at a maximum of 50%, would be 835 million, of which 700 million would be allocated to the 10% that earns the most. So I find it somewhat misleading if you are saying here that you want to make life easier for people with low and middle incomes — yes, you want to reduce the tax burden on that cigar store. This is the way it is, and it is confusing if the Members of Parliament of the Coalition do not know for themselves what kind of future and what kind of tax policy the party is pursuing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u122	Mr President! This is where Mr Kärnä is making himself more ignorant than he is. After all, we have a proposal for an alternative budget, the data service's calculations of a EUR 1 billion income tax reduction, which we have been talking about here today. It is done with the emphasis on low and middle incomes. I believe that our emphasis on this year's alternative budget will be similar. The target programme adopted by the party assembly set a longer-term objective that the paper machine user in Finland would not encounter marginal tax revenue rates above 50% if he did a little more secondary work. And in this respect we would never be making a budget in which this 50% marginal tax alone would be applied — of course not. Of course, it is clear that when you go towards it, we will reduce the tax burden on low and medium incomes and the level of income tax as a whole. That the calculation you have made, that is to say by removing one sentence from the target programme, is not a motion for a delegation. But thanks in itself for the calculation, it can probably be used for some other purposes, but that is not the kind of motion that has been made by the Coalition Party. It is now your twist from that one sentence, which has been decoupled from its context. We have done the calculation that has been published in the previous alternative budget and the distribution of which is quite different from what you are proposing. But I'm sure we can get back to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u123	Mr President! Kärnä here said that the tax cuts in the cigar store, and in some way I would believe that if there are tax reductions in the cigar store, then less often those tax reductions will remain in their account but they will probably try to move it forward and then they will probably bring tax revenue back to Finland again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u128	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. After the Minister's presentation, the debate will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u129	Mr President! This is already the sixth amending budget, which shows a great deal about this exceptional year. The proposal contains only one thing, but it has a significant scale of EUR 200 million. The Government proposes a new article to compensate for the costs of covid-19 testing. The aim is to compensate the hospital district of Helsinki and Uusimaa for the costs of increasing the test capacity and analysis activities related to cross-border crossings required for the implementation of the hybrid strategy. This test capacity thus generated is also available for the testing of other hospital districts. — Briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u130	Now I ask those representatives who want to use the reply to the question, to stand up and press the V button from their place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u131	Mr President! This government proposal for a sixth amending budget is certainly necessary, especially since we have been following up on these latest reports today on the progress of the corona epidemic. However, there is a sad dispute about this decision at the moment, namely that in August the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health set the target of this 20,000 tests per day, then a decision of principle on the requirement of cross-border traffic was made on a rather tight schedule, and now HUS has taken such a direct procurement decision, which has been challenged to market law. Of course, this has nothing to do with it or affects it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u132	Ärade talman, Mr President! Jag tycker att det är väldigt bra att vi nu reservar de raut medlen för testning och spårning och förebyggande åtgärder för att få bukt med den ärdningen. Facta är att det ju har tagit fart ganska mycket på senare tid, och därför är det valdigt bra att vi nu ger de rai pengarna, och vi hoppas att man inte behöver använda de rai 200 milonerna, som nu reserveras, till fullo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u133	Mr President! It is a very important supplementary budget as a whole, although our pardoned finance minister said that these are starting to fall from this almost on a conveyor belt, but in the management of the corona epidemic we must of course do everything we can to support the hospital districts and the system as a whole. But what worries me here is, of course, the challenges of the future, not only what happens in our overall health care, but what happens in the future with these epidemic risks. This has also been the subject of such a debate on security policy, but from the point of view of health and economic policy we will certainly have to think about it so that hopefully covid-19 will be unique. Unfortunately, at least as far as the World Health Organisation is concerned, this does not necessarily seem to be the case, and that is why a plan of preparation of some kind will certainly continue to be needed for how these large epidemics are to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u134	Mr President! The EUR 200 million proposed in the amending budget will be earmarked for the replacement of interest rate testing. The government has systematically adhered to its strategy to prevent, test, track, isolate and manage. This also applies to border crossings and tourism, and this test capacity is specifically aimed at this. Testing and quarantine requirements prevent new infections from coming from the world to Finland, but at the same time many tour operators, including travel tests, are sure to find it too difficult. The recent debate also covered the tourism industry, but this is one of the industries for which we will have to consider the future if we live with this corona situation for a long time in the future before the vaccine is completed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u135	Mr President! It is now absolutely essential to ensure that the testing does not under any circumstances give rise to financial problems, and then it is important that the state insures the health care districts and municipalities to support this increase in testing. Unfortunately, the early autumn surprised me to some extent, but at an admirable speed actually around Finland we have even multiplied the test capacity. In Tampere, I have been able to follow this work in the City Board, and it has been especially great how the whole region has been involved in increasing its testing capacity. Staff have been obtained from municipalities in the region where the corona does not yet exist, when it has been identified that this is not a problem within the municipal boundaries but, at worst, can spread if there is no prompt cooperation. We should therefore continue to encourage such action and ensure that, above all, those resources are found. It is known that somewhere in Finland you have to
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u136	Mr. Speaker! Parliament has previously approved an appropriation of EUR 200 million for this kind of unforeseeable interest payments, i.e. in principle funds would have been found there for this purpose too, but when there is a question here, of course, about the new item of expenditure related to this strategy, it is appropriate that it now comes to Parliament's approval through the amending budget. Interestingly, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) believes very much in this introduction of rapid tests, which would in a way revolutionise the ability to restore people's confidence in the health safety of flying and to achieve a more common time in the air transport sector. But in this transitional period, such a measure, which the government is proposing, is certainly in order. There too, of course, we need to look for the most cost-effective model of how to do and target these tests correctly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u137	Mr President! This sixth amending budget of the Board of Directors will provide additional money to cover the costs of interest payment. It is proposed that the appropriations be increased by EUR 200 million, which will be allocated to the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa. In order to be able to act in accordance with the Government’s strategy, increasing testing capacity is of paramount importance. It is now planned to compensate HUS for the increase in corona testing capacity associated with border crossings and the cost of analysing the tests. From the perspective of the whole of Finland, it is important that passengers arriving in Finland can be tested more effectively in the future. We know here that the need for testing will increase by 23 November at the latest, when the internal border inspection is due to leave and the strategy of testing will be replaced. Although this sixth amending budget is focused on just one thing, it is vital that the government reacts quickly to this acute issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u138	Mr President! It has already become clear that it is important that every time an acute situation occurs, this should be reacted to as quickly as possible. I still feel as though I was in the previous debate that, overall, I think the government has been able to handle this crisis well in the light of the fact that there is already a sixth amending budget — this is now a quick one, and it has been quick, no matter what. But I think this overall approach is good, it is necessary and important. We are talking about human health and, in this case, of course, about carrying out these tests at borders, which is an extremely important issue, as we well know. Perhaps there is a general principle to underline here that I think it is very important that the government has taken the plight of the municipalities seriously and has already decided in the spring on a significant package of support for the municipalities. I was very pleased that now, even in the actual budget debate, a large number of support measures are being targeted at the municipalities,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u139	Mr President! Of course, in my previous civilian work I have had to deal with this type of business, that is, the financial affairs of large hospital organisations, and that is why I am very happy to open up a little in the actual debate what EUR 200 million means here. But here, in short, with the costs we currently have in the public health laboratory, i.e. a cost of around EUR 100 to 150 per test — in private, this is about EUR 250 — we are able to carry out 1.3 million tests, which means, for example, for the remaining three months of this year, 20,000 tests per day. In the morning paper of 26.8., which can easily be found by Google, these total costs and the number of tests in Finland have been very well explained. But I will come back to this in more detail in that actual debate. Of course, I am very much in favour of this being done quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u140	Mr President! Indeed, when the government made decisions aimed at keeping tourism alive and moving in some way, and it was concluded that testing capacity also needs to rise significantly, this solution is intended to provide early financial assurance to the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa that they can increase their capacity — this kind of capacity is not a cheap investment. Hopefully, it will not be as much as is anticipated, but we are now prepared, and this decision will be formally linked to the decision on next year's budget, which will record EUR 1.4 billion in advance for test costs, 30,000 tests a day, for the whole of next year. I also hope that, towards the end of the year, the need will fade considerably and that we will also genuinely save money from going into it. But this is now necessary to make a quick decision, and that is why it was brought in this way as a separate, point-by-point amending budget here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u141	And now let's go on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u142	Mr. Chairman! Without repeating what I said a moment ago, I would like to say that this really is a very important issue in relation to the management and control of the interest rate, as we all know, and it is great that this amending budget has been brought here so quickly. I have deliberately collected some information to give us a concrete picture of the content of this EUR 200 million. Just as Mr Vanhanen has just said, there are indeed 1.4 billion planned for next year, which in practice makes 10 million tests possible. So, just like that, the number of days next year by 30,000 a day, you get that 10 million test. That is exactly where the average price will be at about EUR 140. These test prices have really talked a lot about this. Of course, it will also be affected by the testing capacity when there are really large investments made and highly automated, even though it is still highly labour-intensive in terms of sampling and other related work, such as tracking. The price structure of this kind of test is such that when it consists of the reagent costs, then at its highest levels such reagent costs were up to 40 to 50 euros when availability was poor, but now it has fallen quite close to 10 euros. After all, they are supplies from world trade. Labour costs are at the heart of this, then, of course, equipment and equipment and the overheads on top of it. The hospitals’ laboratories charge for these municipalities, just as the municipal billing of the hospital district normally takes place according to a certain price list, i.e. the patient, or in this case the person to be tested, does not pay anything in public health care. It is also very good that there has been cooperation with the private sector. Now, for example, this 200 million is very much based on a partnership model involving the subcontracting of the largest private laboratory producer. And here we have already referred to certain types of competition law disputes that have been raised in public, but I will not take a position on them now. At best, I have heard that the public sector can carry out these tests at a price of up to EUR 100 per item. Of course, it is always a question of what to count in the right way. All in all, this is a very important issue, and this will certainly do well this year, and then, as the Minister for Finance said, there will be plans for next year for a truly significant and large reserve. But, as Mr Koskinen has pointed out here, the most important thing would be to get fast, cheap and inexpensive rapid tests available. That would revolutionize the whole course of action we have. We are in the process of developing them, and hopefully we will soon be able to make them available.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u143	Mr President! It is quite right that testing should be undertaken at this stage when the disease is in the process of spreading, and precisely in such a way that municipalities are given a genuine opportunity to act effectively in their own territory. At this stage, it is quite right to thank all health workers for the enormous contribution they have made to curb this corona epidemic. It should be remembered that on that side there has been a great stretch of performance, and it must always be remembered that even today, when treating these people with corona infection, they themselves are exposed and take a considerable risk for their own health and even for their own life. They're doing a great job helping people. We need to get this corona test as quickly as possible, and precisely so that it works quickly and can be tested as soon as there is any reason for it, and as has been said in previous speeches, if this rapid testing system, with immediate results, were to be able to get on the road, then the blocks would begin to gather together to control this evil virus in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u144	Mr President! EUR 200 million will be needed for the corona tests, and I would like to raise a little more to the debate than has been raised here in the past, namely these rapid tests. At the moment, testing is really expensive and time-consuming, especially if we think about our travel restrictions at the moment and how they are changing: now, on 23 November, the situation is so that in countries with 25 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in two weeks, a negative test is required three days before coming to Finland, and then another test, which has to be negative if it is to be in Finland for more than three days. Not only does this process, of course, generate a lot of costs, but it can also be asked how good it is actually to promote domestic tourism. The tourism industry has justifiably asked the question of how necessary this second test result is here and how many people want to come to Finland on the principle that they will then be in quarantine for a few days before they can do anything here. I would also stress that, as these methods evolve and travel volumes increase, it may also be necessary to reflect on the logistics at airports and ports, for example: if we look at the airport at Helsinki Airport, for example, when the number of passengers increases, it may be that there will then be a lot of queues for the part to be tested, and it may be reasonable to consider whether we should test all those who come from these airports, or whether we could better use, for example, these baskets and other methods to fork which people are more at risk than others. As I have just said, it seems that these rapid tests — especially for tourism, but also for business travelers — will not be brought to Finland until the end of the year, and then it is likely that this situation will be eased substantially when we are no longer so dependent on these quarantines, and then we will be able to live more freely if the results are introduced more quickly. But, Mr President, 200 million at this stage is certainly a very appropriate sum to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u145	Mr President! EUR 200 million will add to the testing and detection of covid-19, the coronavirus epidemic. It is a good thing that resources are allocated to where they are urgently needed. It is also true, of course, that money is being spent not only on tests but also on finding these people, this staff, to carry out these tests. It is certainly the case that, at the moment, the test apparatus is already operating at the very limit and at the fullest. There people work, tests are completed and they are informed, but how can you speed up that process even more quickly? That is a bigger question. I'm sure it's very difficult, but they're already working at the limit. I see not only the tests, Mr President, but also the fact that we citizens, we people here, are not going to get tired of racing around this corona infection, but we would follow the instructions and recommendations we have been given: we are using masks, we are taking care of handwashes and hand-washes, and so on, which is very important to overcome this virus epidemic. I'm afraid we still have really serious and bad times ahead of us. It is likely that this epidemic will spread even further and that infections will increase, and it will also be difficult to find these sources of infection and those who have all been exposed. It remains very much for the person himself to observe his own condition and to wonder whether there is a possible infection of the autumn flu or of the corona virus, because the symptoms are also diverse. In this respect, it is very important that people are given guidance and clear advice on what to do when it comes to the idea of having a virus infection, even if it is a fall flu and not wondering how to do it. It is important that the guidelines for quarantine also pass on to people and do not have that hesitation. I'm allowed to answer the e-mails myself that, hey, I'm going on a trip or I'm coming from somewhere and I have to stay in quarantine. It should be clearly told to people, in plain language, from which country, when, how and what that quarantine means. Employers also have to think about it: if a person voluntarily goes somewhere on a trip, is it the employer's obligation to pay and pay for the quarantine that he is away from? So, big questions like this. Cheap rapid tests — it is certainly appropriate to reflect on them too, and I do feel that it would be desirable for the price of the tests to come down and we should also have this civic duty, along with the manufacturers and suppliers of the tests. This is a major national crisis where we are, and we Finns are doing everything we can to overcome that crisis. But indeed, more staff, agents, machinery to function, and appreciated, will be respected. And thank you for all the testers — you do important work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u146	Mr. Speaker! Mr Kauma's speech was very welcome insofar as the meeting supports this issue. I only remember the ten speeches made in spring and early summer by the representatives of the Assembly and insisted that the private sector's capacity should be made available by the state to combat and test the interest rate. Well, now this arrangement through the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa buys from the private sector the most affordable way to organise these airport tests. As such, these wishes have been heard but not as such a mass distribution of money to the private sector, but just when needed and able to be cost-effectively arranged in this way. To this general situation to which Mr Juvonen referred: it is certainly a time for very careful reflection and rapid action that this rampant epidemic will again be stopped before it can destroy too much in Finland. These measures, which the government has already proposed and is already considering, are necessary, for example, in relation to restaurants, but there is a little problem in this general debate that it is now considered absolutely essential that we should not resort to the Emergency Act under any circumstances, that such a principle of avoidance has become the norm. However, it is good to exist, so that when quick, prompt, whole kingdom action is needed, so also those possibilities offered by the Emergency Act must be used if necessary and not considered to be such a very negative attitude towards them. Our main task is to overcome this corona crisis, prevent harmful health effects and the collapse of the economy, and it must use all the means provided by the legitimate society. With regard to these quarantine arrangements, more detailed guidance is certainly needed on these issues, and I would also like to see through this quarantine compensation once again. It is written for a completely different kind of epidemic, for far more serious diseases and for diseases affecting smaller groups of people. It might well be thought that, for this pandemic, it would be written about replacing these quarantine periods with its own provisions, which would then also have the effect of what caused it and how it could be minimised both for society and, for example, for employers, and
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u147	Mr President! The proposal for this EUR 200 million package is necessary. Border crossings should be made as safe and flexible as possible, taking into account the epidemic situation. It is a question of preparedness in order to proceed with the increase in testing capacity. Testing with all its stages takes time, tracking is hard, and it takes a lot of people to do that. I would also like to thank all those who are fighting this disease at the forefront. You're doing a valuable job. It is up to each of us to act in accordance with the instructions. Controlling interest rates is a constant balancing exercise with restrictions on the protection of people's lives and health and on the movement and assembly of people. The government has also wanted to bear in mind responsibly that restrictions have a significant negative impact on business, employment and border traffic. Travel is in trouble. That's what we should be able to keep moving and alive. This presentation gives certainty to the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa, which operates in the front line. The acquisition of capacity costs — a guarantee of financing is needed. It is time for rapid action, as Mr Koskinen said earlier. It is a matter of preparing for the worst. Hopefully, you don't even have to use everything. There are many bottlenecks in travelling to Finland, but much progress has been made in guidance and guidance. I've noticed that myself at airports. It is good that dogs have also been helped by the fields, and their use must definitely be developed in order to get things down. Similarly, there is a clear need to develop rapid tests. This is how we keep the wheels of society rolling while protecting life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u148	Mr President! Every day at the airport, hard work is being done in the front line to keep the corona virus under control as well as possible. Although at the moment it seems clear that this increase in infection comes from the country of origin — relatively only about 6 to 7% of new cases come from abroad — it is nevertheless important that health safety at borders is ensured. That is why this is an important message and signal to the airport and to all the borders where this work is done every day. As Mr Kinnunen mentioned, while awaiting these rapid tests, other means have already been put in place — dogs there are already sniffing out corona infections, and it is precisely by targeting the tests that we are trying to find cases and also to test those from different countries on a risk-based basis. But, President-in-Office, more and more attention must also be directed towards this country. If you look at the THL's weekly assessment of the follow-up to the hybrid strategy, it really seems that in the family and friends circle, in close contact with leisure time, the infections are still spreading very effectively. Of course, restaurants have once again emerged. The government is currently negotiating at the Regent House. It is possible that there will be restrictions. It has been a little bit like this all the way down the road that the government has sometimes been accused of doing too much and too late and sometimes of doing too little and too late or too early. Now I noticed that the opposition party, as a result of the Finns, had been suggested that the opening hours of restaurants would be completely liberalised — that is, that people would be free to be in restaurants and nightclubs, even until the morning. I myself was somewhat surprised by this proposal. In view of the type of news we have read — the type of social situation that these transmission chains have left — this is perhaps a rather surprising opening for the opposition party under the leadership of the Finns. Mr Juvonen has made very wise and sensible speeches here on this fight against the disease, above all on the one hand, as he himself has just said, not now, but on the other hand, on interest rate fatigue, and on the other hand, on the other. I would have asked Mr Juvos how you yourself assessed this motion by the leadership of your party. In fact, I would be a little more cautious just because we are not familiar with this disease, and I believe that there is a need to listen to healthcare professionals and experts in this regard. I would not do this myself, but of course it would be interesting to hear Mr Juvosen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u149	Mr President! In testing it is important to try and raise awareness of what Mr Lindtman raised. Indeed, the government is consistent with its chosen strategy. However, a few words about the situation in the tourism industry. The tourism sector has suffering throughout the country. In Lapland tourism, domestic travelers can only partially patch up, for example, the remaining British. We Finns are self-employed, do not buy dog rides or northern lights trips, and we prefer to stay at the hotel only part of the nights and the rest of the tent. According to statistics, half of the money remains in the area compared to Kv-turism. The interest-bearing crisis has driven the tourism industry to a stranglehold here in Uusimaa as well. For example, overnight stays by foreign tourists have plummeted to 10 per cent year-on-year. Direct income losses in January to July amounted to EUR 735 million and the multiplier effects for other industries to exceed EUR 1 billion. The total income of tourism in Uusimaa has been 9 billion in recent years. In the early part of the year, 5,200 person-years have been lost in tourism. Nine out of ten companies have had to resort to layoffs. As the crisis continues, redundancies have increased. With its indirect impact, the attack on the tourism industry affects 25,000 neo-national workers. International traffic through Helsinki Airport is almost at a standstill and has a direct impact on approximately 10,000 jobs. Including the entire aviation cluster, this is 30,000 people. In other words, these employment rescue measures are needed alongside the testing activities and are needed across the country. I hope that we do not have to get caught up in a situation where the regions or sectors are going to be called into competition for these possible subsidies. The funding of the test strategy in this proposal is guaranteed so that at least that capacity does not become an obstacle to tourism.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u150	Mr President! Mr Lindtman, in his excellent speech just now, described this situation if we ourselves behave irresponsibly or do something that causes the disease to spread, and one can say that 99.9% of this is still on our own independent decisions. Perhaps the easiest way is to think about this 200 million which we are now giving to testing: very important money because it protects our own health and the health of our loved ones, the health of all our people and, in the worst case, our lives. The right thinking may be that we think of it by means of each of us having a close relationship, and there are persons who might be at risk of getting this disease, even if there is an immediate danger of life. When we think about it through how we conduct ourselves, I claim that 90% of this problem has been solved at the moment when we understand what kind of disease we are dealing with. Yesterday, I called a friend of mine who got sick with this disease on his way to work — a strong Finnish man, fit and able to cope with the consequences of the disease. But in this regard, it is worth bearing in mind that, when we take responsibility for our own behaviour, it is certainly the cheapest way to deal with this matter. I am a little puzzled by this process, which has been that you can really go to places and visit places where you are likely to get the disease. By being patient for a couple of months of restrained behavior until Christmas, I believe that we are much, much longer. By going on the third foot in different places and taking a huge risk, we are likely to spread the disease to an ever larger area and at the same time risk our own health and even our lives and then, of course, the fate of the loved ones at the same time, because that disease is known to spread very quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u151	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Lindtman, for your good speech and for hearing my speech and for listening to it before, and you know my position. Mr Lindtman, I am sure you refer to this debate on social media, which was then the subject of an article. It was indeed a social dialogue, and it is true. Of course, we are also considering and considering different options for the social debate on how to keep entrepreneurs out of work and bread. Of course, we are all deeply concerned about tourism and the need for tourists to come to Lapland, but what if those tourists do not come? By what means do we support tourism in Lapland? How do we support restaurants, entrepreneurs, bars, pubs if those people don't show up? I have been thinking in this sense when last weekend I went on the northern tour and about 2,500 kilometers were driven there and I saw the situation — From Kuusamo to the higher Lapland, including Posio and elsewhere — that the tourist bubble we are thinking about should not be a soap bubble. If people travel here and come here, we have to make sure they're safe. I'm worried that what if that tourist bubble is a soap bubble? It depends so much on ourselves, how we do it and how tourists do it. But, of course, there is concern about how the restaurant is doing, because they are hit very hard by this. Of course, we remember what happened in Austria, for example, when the interest rate began. There was Kitzloch, a small pub that turned out to be coronaling, and from there people all went to their own countries, also came to Finland, but we didn't have any tests at the border. Instead of going to their homeland in Sweden, tourists were, in a way, caught, which is where the infections were. Similarly, when tourists went to Denmark and the infections were revealed there, it was only then discovered that hey, it was the Austrian Kitzloch, a small coronal. So big questions, serious questions, but the Finns also have the worry about how we really support restaurants. Of course, we have a different situation in Finland. When I visited that small town in Northern Ostrobothnia or Savo in Siilinjärvi, could the restaurant be open for longer if there were no cases, so could we also see the situation locally? But certainly, Mr Lindtman, we are in the same boat, and we are wondering how we support entrepreneurship, how we ensure jobs, how we reduce the layoff or dismissal of the waiter, how the cook can continue to work. So big, serious questions and reflection. It is all right that different options are being raised here, and I can see that Finland is a big country, and we are also facing the interest rate in such a way as to look at where the crisis outbreaks are and to seize them and intervene there. But all in all, it's important. On dogs, Mr President, if you will allow me to speak, the corona dogs will:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u152	Mr President! Thank you again for this speech. This must be a common concern for the position of restaurant entrepreneurs and restaurant workers in the midst of all this crisis. That is why we have taken joint action to soften this situation when, in the spring, we really had to restrict restaurant activities with a very heavy hand by a parliamentary decision. It was good that Juvonen raised this case in Austria, because it was really like this, that one nightclub, which packed a lot of people, acted as this kind of coronal. I personally read in that social media the same update that the Finnish Parliament could say, the highest representative, Vice-President Eerola, had written and that Jussi Halla-aho was struggling with. There, apparently, the idea went so that if restaurants were open for longer, then people would go a little more rarely there. I am not quite sure about this logic, because at least in my own neighborhood it is often the case that when you go to a restaurant you go with friends and a group of people, and often the daily rhythm of people is the one that pretty much determines that you go after work on Friday night or when you go home. When I myself have some restaurant activities like that, as I feel as a customer [Department: Don't tell me everything! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u153	Thank you, Mr Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u154	Mr President! Thank you for this good debate that we are about to have. In my opinion, it is very important that we, who are considering these issues here in particular and getting the latest information, also take that information forward. I've had a line myself that 15 minutes is the exposure. Here, too, we sit for a very long time, and it is good that we now have these facial masks — they should have been on our faces much earlier. 15 minutes is that exposure time. If you go to a restaurant, then you have to wonder whether you're going inside to eat or go to the terrace to eat. It is recommended that you eat on the terrace. Of course, the most popular thing would be to pick it up according to the food, to support the restaurant owner in such a way that you visit the restaurant, just as from the gas station you take coffee and buns away and then eat them on your way — that you would still visit it. Mr President! Yes, where these exposures occur and are, there is also a great deal among young people. It was worrying to read this morning that Espoo, from which I came, also had the first exposures in the library at Leppävaara, Espoo. That means that at the moment abiturients, high school students, study very much in libraries. I myself have taken the Council initiative to add quiet spaces to them, and they have been in intensive use in Espoo. In other words, when it is good to study there, it is also worrying that, for example, libraries now, if infections start to spread, we will inevitably come to a point where we wonder whether libraries will be closed, whether people will be reduced, how we will do it. And as I said in my first speech, I am very skeptical. I'm also very afraid of where we're going. I am very afraid of whether our hospital beds will be sufficient, because the preparedness law, which has also come to light here, has also caused a great deal for nurses to leave the sector. I have received many messages that when you have your own family you have your own children, it is worrying to go to work, for example, for the care of the elderly if these cases of infection occur there. And it would also be very important — I would send a message to THL, hardly listen to them, of course, but it would be somewhat desirable — for us Finns to have more of the mechanism of infection and which groups are particularly at risk when they are infected, and what the risk groups really are. It would also be important to hear it so that people would understand that when an infection comes and it hits a normal healthy young person, how serious it is then, because many people have the impression that it is only one flu and it is there, and the truth is different. Over a million victims worldwide, over a million corona deaths. That is such a halting amount that we in Finland cannot, however, be left uninvolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u155	We are discussing the sixth amending budget for this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u156	Mr President! It's important. We need to move on fast. For a long time I was wondering whether I would go along with this debate, but there is one thing I wanted to say, and that is an idea of where we are with this at the moment. After all, we have had an average of these infections over the past few days a hundred per day, under a little, over a few days. But it's mostly young people. You can read on THL's website, it's got graphics all over it, how the infections are divided into different age groups, but also how they are divided into about 350 deaths. If you compare infected people over 80 years of age and deaths among those over 80 years of age, then that percentage is wild. In fact, it's the same as it was in the spring. For a young person under 50 years of age, the mortality rate is one death rate per 2000 infected person. Well, for an 80-year-old, it's 300 times that. This means that there would be 300 deaths per 2000 infected persons of its age. — We do not have 2000 infected people in the 80-year-old group, but in this way we are able to relate these figures to each other. So the essential question now is that, although we have more of this disease than in the summer, much more so, we must do everything we can to prevent it from being transmitted to older age groups and groups at risk, because if it does, then we will be back and, in fact, in an even worse situation than we were last spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u157	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. After the Minister's presentation, the debate will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u158	Mr President! The reform of the state participation system for performing art is part of a broader reform package, which has already been the subject of the reform of the museum law and the funding system for museums during the last parliamentary term and the reform of the state grant funding for the free field of performing art. The reform is based on very thorough preparation, which has been done in close interaction with the field, and for this I would like to express my warm thanks to all stakeholders. However, in the preparation of the last parliamentary term, this part of the state's contribution to the presentation of the art was left with a number of problems, and I believe that in the further preparation of these problems, very good solutions have been found, and the feedback received from the field has also been largely positive. I would like to stress that cooperation with stakeholders on this subject has therefore been going on for years. Further preparation of the reform has been guided by a statement adopted by Parliament in connection with the 2019 budget, which required that the preparation of the state participation reform of the performing arts should proceed in a comprehensive manner and that the preparation should carefully assess the impact of the different models on the financing and development of the performing arts and ensure adequate resources for all of them. All of this was also recorded in the government’s programme. And now there's a government proposal ready for Parliament. It therefore proposes to provide for a law on the promotion of performing art, which would currently replace theatre and orchestral laws. The title and scope of the Act would be more general in a certain way than the Act on Theatre and Orchestra in such a way as to cover all forms of performing art and not to restrict access to the VOS system to specific forms of performing art. In the application of the current Act on Theatre and Orchestras, dance theatres have also been regarded as theatres, and in 2014 the scope of the Act was extended to circuses. At present, however, choir activities, for example, are excluded from the scope of the law. The conditions for acceptance of a State contribution would largely meet the requirements of the current Act on Theatre and Orchestras, but there are new conditions: for example, the condition of eligibility of the person in charge of the operation unit and the requirement for a multi-annual action plan for the objectives, activities and finances of the unit. The operating unit could be accepted as part of the state participation system for performing art, either for the time being or for a period of three years, and this new approach aims to provide sufficient support both for long-term development and, where possible, for the renewal of the field of activity. If the operating unit can be assessed, taking into account the scale of the operation and the degree of stability of the operating conditions, it is likely that the conditions for State participation will be met for the next six years, it would be eligible for the State contribution for the time being. On this basis, the majority of the operating units currently in State ownership could probably be regarded as ‘forever’ but for a period of three years new actors considered to be sufficiently sea-going to obtain this State’s share would normally be accepted in the area of State participation. Thus far, for operating units eligible for the central government participation scheme, the fulfilment of the state participation criteria would be assessed every six years. If this were to happen, then, that the operating unit would no longer meet these conditions — such as the orchestra or the like — for the state’s participation, then the approval of its membership could be withdrawn. Acceptance of the State participation could also be subject to a fixed period if the operating unit no longer meets the conditions for acceptance of the State participation scheme for the time being. It is also proposed to lay down the criteria to be followed when considering which operating units are to be eligible for State aid where it is not possible for all eligible operating units to be included within the limits of the State budget. This situation is, of course, inevitable. In this case, consideration is based on the need for a state contribution to the objective defined by the law, which is artistically based on promoting the diversity and cultural diversity of performing art, as well as the national and regional accessibility and accessibility of performing art services to different population groups. A State Cooperative Board for Performing Art would be set up within the Centre for the Promotion of Art, which would be responsible for issuing opinions to OKM on these very applications, which would be aimed at as new actors under the State Aid Scheme. Well, on a calculated basis, Mr President, the unit price calculated on the basis of actual costs and the number of man-years laid down as the basis for the State contribution would remain. As at present, the percentage of central government participation would, as a rule, be 37. Differences in the field of operation and cost and income structure of different types of art institutions could be taken into account by granting a central government share in the share of the staff years of the operating unit in accordance with the increased VOS percentage. At present, this would replace the discretionary state contributions granted to the same activity, in addition to the State contribution. A State contribution of the increased VOS percentage could be granted if, although a significant part of the activity of this unit is tour or visiting activities, or if it has features that are clearly visible to children, linguistic minorities or special groups, for example. The increased percentage would be 60%. In order to increase the predictability of funding and long-term planning conditions, a multi-annual financing plan would be put in place for the number of man-years of employment to be established as the basis for the State contribution and for the number of man-years to be completed in line with the increased VOS percentage. Mr President! The unit price would be calculated separately for orchestras and other music operating units on the one hand and theatres, dance theatres and circuses on the other hand and non-music operating units on the other. Originally, Jaakko Kuusisto's working group proposed that the unit prices currently calculated for theatres and orchestras should be transferred to all performing art operating units at a common unit price. Why, then, was this not the case? In recent years, however, the cost structures of theatres and orchestras have developed in such a way that the transition to a single unit price has not been considered justified. As an individual issue, Mr President, I would like to raise the issue of the status and funding of the Swedish Teatern and Tampere Labour Theatre, which, in line with the Government Programme's record, will be secured with 60 % of their share of the total activity. And this whole government proposal, and hence the reform, has provided for additional appropriations in the budgetary plan. In fact, additional appropriations have been allocated to state grants in the free field since 2019. As early as 22 years after the entry into force of the VOS reform of performing art, the increase in appropriations in the state shares of performing art and the free field would amount to a total of 13 million more than in the 18th level. Mr President! Laws are therefore intended to enter into force from the beginning of 22 C.E., but enforcement measures need to be taken about a year earlier. I therefore hope and encourage and am aware that Parliament will certainly take a careful look at the proposal, but at the same time will give a strong signal to this important actor field that reform is coming and that the field can start preparing for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u159	Thank you. — Let us now move on to the debate. I would ask those Members who wish to make a reply to this question to stand up and press the V button from their own actual point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u160	Mr President! We in the Left Alliance have always assumed that everyone must have access to culture and art and be part of the service package, and that is why, of course, affordability and accessibility are the things we have emphasised. This transparency of funding criteria is also something that has been discussed for years and who has the right to receive state aid and to be covered by state aid. How does the Minister see that, even after this legislative reform, we could strengthen the transparency of our funding and activities and perhaps make it possible to make new - as art and culture evolve all the time - the making of art and culture even more rapidly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u161	Mr President! This is a long-standing and long-awaited reform. I am pleased that it has come this far, and I am particularly pleased that additional resources are also being put into this reform in a significant way, namely that last season it was tried in a cost-neutral way, which of course means that it is becoming quite difficult and impossible. Especially now the situation in performing art units, theatres, orchestras is regrettable, because we still have a corona challenge on top, but hopefully this will be a relief. Above all, this must be seen as the right of the people of the regions and regions to have a high level of cultural provision throughout Finland. A special pleasure, President, as such a Tampere, of course — and it is also of great significance to the nation — is that Tampere Labour Theatre now has this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u162	Mr President! Culture has an IT seismic value. Its significance for people’s well - being is beyond doubt. The autonomous role of culture and art must also be safeguarded in the future, and it is great that this reform is finally progressing, even though the level of ambition has fallen slightly from its original level. In any case, it will be possible to update the current system. Culture must be accessible to all. This must also be supported by funding and guidance. A particular focus should be on promoting the accessibility of children's culture. It is right that this presentation now takes cultural actors very much into consideration and also recognises Tampere's role as the theatre capital of Finland in securing the funding of Tampere's Labour Theatre
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u163	Mr President! Due to the restrictions on interest rates, many of us found that art was leaving a gap. Thus, in many places, the partial opening of theaters was welcomed with joy. Art and culture have a strange power. It does bring well-being. So the long-prepared state-owned reform of performing art is finally progressing to the parliament. Like Mr Viitanen, I would like to thank Mr Saarikko, the responsible minister, and Mr Puumala, who led the working group, as well as the industry, for being at this point. The VOS reform strengthens the position of Finnish theatres and orchestras and at the same time notes that there have also been changes in the field of performing art. With this new law, there is an opportunity to become more and more performing arts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u164	Mr President! This is indeed a long-awaited and well-prepared proposal, and it is great that it is moving forward, and it is great that this government can bring it to the finish line. Thank you also for the additional funding of EUR 10 million, which is significant for theatres, dance groups, orchestras and other performing artists. Both this funding and the legal reform support cultural diversity and also enable new players, such as the circus, to access the funding. The increase in cultural diversity and the expansion of support opportunities has been a long-term objective. The Government Programme has also set out the objective of strengthening access to and operating conditions for cultural services, and this is also well answered. With the tight economic situation of interest rates and municipalities, the central government will continue to grow.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u165	Mr President, ärade talman! Regeringens förslag om att reformera statsandelssystemet för scenkonst är mycket väntat och ytterst väkont. Det är en riktning mot et mer jämlikt stöd för kulturfältet i vårt land. Kultur innebär samhällellig activitet och samverkan som höjer valfärden och minskar på marginaliseringen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u166	Mr President! The central government system is the backbone of Finnish cultural funding. Many city theaters, orchestras and museums receive funding from it, but it has long been known that the current system is rigid because it has been difficult for new players to reach it. The problem has also been that the increase in funding has stalled. In this way, the problem is also that some operators feel that the system of central government transfers has only become a nostalgic base for old structures. For this reason, once the system has been reformed, the old players have also been critical of these new solutions. Mr President! This reform is necessary, but it has also been criticised because it continues to give the Theatre of Svenska Teatern and Tampere Workers a larger share of the state than other actors.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u167	Mr President! I was surprised by the old legislation on theatre and orchestra, in fact, but the reform is fine, and this has been very much awaited for the cultural population. I think that this is a good way to achieve the accessibility of the culture of the Government Programme and to strengthen the conditions for action, which is also included in the Government Programme. A question for the Minister, actually: This structure is good that the unit price base is now being strengthened, and index increases are being restored and central government shares are being increased, but is this 60 % State aid, which is available to us, replacing the discretionary state contribution, which regional theatre activities in particular have taken advantage of? It is extremely important in those provinces for both orchestras and regional theatres. So they obviously have the opportunity to apply for this 60% increase in the government share in its tour activities?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u168	Mr President! This is absolutely a cultural war, this is what I would describe, and a huge thank you to the ministry for bringing this matter forward, and to the Minister that it is here today in the presentation. This has certainly been done for as long as the social reform, and that is my previous description. The reform is coming from the beginning of 2022, and I would like to say hello that the sooner the better. It is particularly commendable that this proposal contains the common will of the field. I believe that this reform has been widely supported by the players in the field and, of course, that additional EUR 10 million will also encourage it. Two things: regional policy and diverse actors. I think it is excellent that this takes into account, as described by previous representatives, for example, the involvement of regional actors more strongly than is currently the case. In addition, this includes, for example, circus operators,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u169	Mr President! First of all, I agree with this beautiful Tamperese choir, which commends the former Minister of Turku for the fine work he has done. [Laughter] But this proposal contains a lot of good things, not just that it brings good to our own regions, but that regional access is guaranteed, and that various actors around Finland now have better opportunities to become part of the state, and that it will be possible to extend this field of activity, which can then be applied for and obtained. And, above all, this also anticipates the funding and future plans for the next few years when we are thinking about action on the cultural side.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u170	Mr President! I agree that this is a very welcome reform, and the renewal of the field of action is a great thing. However, I would have asked the Minister a little about the evaluation of this system and how it will be monitored, mainly so that it is likely that there will actually be a turnover there within the system, i.e. how likely it will be to fall into or out of the three-year period. If we compare this field of art and culture with the field of science, where evaluation and quality monitoring are very rigorous and based on peer review, what kind of system will be created here to ensure that diversity is genuinely guaranteed and that the possibilities of access to its system are realised? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u171	Irade the Talman! Mr President! We must always defend the independence and freedom of the performing art. We are now dealing with an important proposal to strengthen the conditions under which culture operates. This reform is progressing in a time when the challenges faced by theatres and other cultural actors are very serious because of the corona crisis and the situation in Veikkaus. There is a broad talk of performing art, not just theatres and orchestras, and this is a significant and necessary change. With this presentation, we will take care of the diversity of art and cultural diversity and the regional availability of services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u172	Mr President! Thank you very much to the Minister and the troops for bringing this welfare reform to the end at last. This reform will significantly improve accessibility and accessibility for different groups. High-quality supply should be available throughout Finland. Culture and art belong to everyone. The increased central government percentage, 60, will be replaced by discretionary central government shares. I am pleased that it includes targeted activities for children and special groups. It is worth investing in the well-being of children. I am also thinking of people with disabilities, those who need special support, who are easily excluded from artistic and cultural activities. They enjoy art very much. Many of them are also artists. This reform is a UN reform of the rights of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u173	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for a very comprehensive and good presentation on this matter. Here as a Member of Parliament, you can easily get some kind of stamp on your forehead when you make a lot of speeches, for example, on health or economic matters, but here I am warming up positively because I have ten years of experience in the Government of the Turku-based Castle Theatre — which in 2016 had more than 100,000 spectators in the sixth largest audience in our country — and I learned to admire the leading two then, who have later reaped the reputation of both Oulu City Theatre and now Turku City Theatre as the leading two. We have had a relatively good system for supporting orchestras and theatres, above all because it has not been random, but has been systematic, and now it is getting better. In this respect, I agree with those who have praised this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u174	Mr President! In the field of culture, concerns about a reduction in funding are justified as the profits of gambling activities fall in the future. A sustainable and long-term solution must be sought. When the Minister is here, I ask: what solutions are planned for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u175	Mr President! The essence of all this is that this sector needs this reform, which has been indisputable for a very long time. This has been done over the parliamentary term, and it is great that we are at this point. So this is support for the sector. President! At this point, I would also like to bring to the debate a second perspective on the possibility of supporting the sector. It is something that each of us can do by using the services of the industry, by visiting the performing art. Yes, it can be done safely when you have reason in your head and follow the limitations that exist. But this is also important in that the sector can and will continue to be well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u176	Now, at the end of the debate, Minister Saarikko 3 to 5 minutes. After that, he'll have to leave with us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u177	Mr President! First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay great tribute to you very much to the following representatives. In my presentation, although I went through more specific content of the law in detail, in a fantastic way this debate over the Government—Opposition boundaries broadened the purpose and content of this law and also the social drive to recognise the importance of culture as a regional equality factor, a welfare factor, but at the same time we are talking about people's jobs. Culture is an important source of employment, and the purpose of this proposal is not only to bring new players into the system of state aids, as it were, to expand and broaden the field, but also to bring continuity and clarity to this sector, which has been waiting for reform for a long time. In other words, it is easy to agree with the assessments and the way in which several representatives, representatives Kyllönen and Viitanen, can see how equal access to culture is our national principle, to which this government is deeply committed. Of course, Mrs Kyllönen, I feel that this proposal strengthens the transparency of funding and activities as such, and I am prepared to continue this work and all of it here in the cultural sphere — also so that the value base of the activities is sufficiently clear and transparent, including the kind of values which, in principle, have been committed to, for example, staff. Several speakers also touched on the demanding and serious situation of theatres and all cultural activities, quite equally of orchestras and any performing art, which has been highlighted by the corona. I will also take this opportunity to address this issue in at least two different ways. First of all, with the decisions of the spring, the government made significant hand-outs to the industry, whose attention was perhaps overshadowed by the discussion in the restaurant, hotel and tourism sectors, but whose operating conditions, in a way quite similar to those of the wall, stopped. The total aid so far has been about EUR 80 million, both for these free-field operators, individual freelance operators, as well as for city orchesters and city theaters, as well as for state actors, including the museum field. Unfortunately, the situation is that the autumn does not look terribly bright in this regard. It is therefore good that I am now in the hope that the government's amending budget, which will be dealt with here in due course — the next round — will include a proposal relating to additional funding for culture, the new aid package, as part of the autumn package. I hope that we will be able to come back to this in greater detail together, and we will do everything we can to ensure that it is also targeted at those operators for whom it is quite clear that there has been a gap in the various forms of aid. That is, of course, regrettable. Another issue over this corona is that each one of us can make a difference. I encourage that we, as parliamentarians and as people who normally consume a lot of cultural services in our own region, should set an example and make use of cultural services and the skills of creative operators, even in these times. I am very proud of the Finnish responsible cultural field, which, according to my information, has provided its services in a very health-friendly way. That is why we could be pioneers and exemplary ones who, even in these demanding times, use these responsiblely organized services. No cultural actor primarily wants the support of society, but they want the public, and it is therefore desirable that the Finnish people should always be able to use these services if restrictions at all costs allow them to do so. Mr President! On a few questions, I would like to raise the answers in the first place, given the implementation of this law. In other words, when Parliament adopts the law after the committee procedure and after this large Chamber, implementation will begin immediately, even if the law actually enters into force in 22. This means that this interim period is the time when operators will be able to apply immediately for this state-funded status. And in this regard, too, it is important that this interim period remains sufficient before the law enters into force. And the other one: Mr Honkasalo raised the question of how to get within the scope of this action and how to consider who would receive the funding. That is precisely where the clear intermediate stops have been created for these three and six years. In other words, ‘considerably better than today’ is perhaps a short answer President! All in all, the comments to this good and worthy, widespread debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u178	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u179	Mr President! The state-subsidisation of performing art has really been built for a long and hard time over the parliamentary term. It is a great thing that we are on this point — and good work has been done, the proposal has been prepared with broad consultation of the operators, as it should be. The performing art is now more widely defined. In addition to theatre and orchestra activities, the reforms will allow the state's participation to include examples already mentioned today: circus and dance art, choirs, operas and operats. Over the years, young people of the new generation have diversified our perception of performing art. The EUR 10 million additional funding provided for the reform will ensure that we can preserve traditions while enabling new sectors and operators to benefit from state participation. The proposal is not only a bow to recognised operators but also timely and adaptable. With the reform, a multi-annual financing plan will be drawn up for each actor in performing art. This will support the predictability of funding and the long-term sustainability of activities. One of the main objectives is to support the preservation and development of a regionally comprehensive network of cultural services. The provision of performing art creates vitality throughout Finland. It is easy to be proud of the quality and variety of performing art we have in different parts of Finland. President! Because of the restrictions on interest rates, we did indeed find the big hole left by art. Art and culture have an important power. It brings health and well-being to all of us. President! The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media will, of course, examine the proposal thoroughly and also with sensitive ears. But I think we're close to the end. This sector really deserves this reform of the VOS, for which there has been an undeniable need for a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u180	Mr President! The proposal provides for a law on the promotion of performing art, which would replace the current theatre and orchestra legislation. The law has been awaited for a very long time, and the field of art seems to be largely satisfied with this compromise. A particularly positive feature of the law is that the scope of the law would have been more transparent in that it would not have been limited, as is the case at present, to certain forms of performing art. Another positive aspect of the legislative reform is that it would be easier to reach the State in the future. This will make it easier for circus art, for example, to operate in the future. The legal reform thus eliminates the inequality between the free field of art and those involved in a more established state. This is an important step. Mr President! The Left Alliance believes that everyone must have access to artistic and cultural services. Public funding safeguards the affordability of art and culture. The accessibility of art must also be promoted from other perspectives, such as language and the physical environment. It is important that the reform strengthens the regional availability and accessibility of artistic and cultural services to different population groups, as well as the ability of people from different backgrounds to participate in the production of art and cultural services. It is also a good thing that the reform promotes the diversity of performing art. It is important that the state-owned system allows new fields of art, such as circus and performance, to be eligible for funding. Mr President! Finally, a few critical concerns. The concerns of the performing art field about the lack of funding are still justified and unfortunately this reform will not go away. The Left Alliance believes that transparency of funding criteria should be further enhanced. Securing funding in a sustainable way in the future is of paramount importance in addition to this reform. Korona has hit the field of art and culture especially hard, which is harsh when the livelihood of the players in this field has already been very fragile in principle. Now many are very afraid of what will happen in the field of art and culture, as Veikkaus' incomes will continue to fall in the future. A sustainable long-term solution to financing needs to be found. This is also true of artists' livelihoods and social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u181	Mr President! Regeringens förslag till lagen om finansiering av teatrar och orchid är ett steg mot förbättrade förutsättningar för culten i vårt land, och i detta sammanhang ska jag töda ledamot Honkasalo i det sense som hon rain kring benämningen. Men trots allt har man pratat om att det ox är culturens sote, så därför är det en Jättestor sak det handlar om. Genom att kulturtjänsterna görs mer tillgängliga ökar medborgarnas deltagande och activitet i samhallet, vilket i sin tur hjälper att förebygga marginalising. Undersökningar visar att när man ska Hindra marginalising och förebygga problem är kultur och konst ett mycket bra redskap. De teatrar som ingår i statsandelssystemet i dag och som propositionen berör har circa 2.1 milioner besökare per år och tillsammans med orchestrarnas concerter ytterligare en milon besökare per år. Det är alltså ingen tvekan om att de aktörer som propositionen berör når ut till medborgarna i vårt land.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u182	Mr President! The central government system is the backbone of Finnish cultural funding. After all, there has been a desire to renew it for a long time and, in fact, it was already started during Mr Grahn-Laasonen's time. In that regard, Minister Saarikko said earlier that cultural actors do not primarily think that the system of state participation is the essence of all that, but of course they want the public. Of course, realism is that the system of state subsidies is such an important part of this whole that it is important to maintain it and develop it as the world changes. One of the key criteria for changing it is that new audiences should also be reached in this way. So now comes the circus, dance art, choir activities, operas and more and more children’s theatre, which I personally consider to be important. Of course, these players also play a very important role in the creation of funding. Mr President! I myself am also thinking about the fact that, as the share of the profits from gambling in the budget and thus also in the financing of culture deteriorates, we must also consider how to replace these gaps. Personally, I would be pleased if we could also consider how to involve private actors. Before the left-wing party gets a grip on this, I would like to say that I consider the system of state subsidies to be a very important backbone, but since more money is needed all the time, it would be good if we were to get to know those countries where public money has been spent as if it were being leveraged and then private funding has been involved, for example, companies have bought chairs from the theaters and so on, so to make it bigger than the total pot. I think that all kinds of innovative activities would be needed in order to increase this total pot.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u183	We have spent 45 minutes on this, so this item will be suspended and the debate will be closed on this point. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u184	We will now resume the debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u185	Mr President! At this point, it's only very brief, because we've already had our debut. I say that this law is important and that it has been expected. Above all, I would like to say that, given that we also have more resources for culture in this context, I think it is extremely important, overall, that, in these difficult times, we are able to secure the funding of culture. It is of great importance for employment, for the regional economy, for the mental well-being of people and also for health, i.e. it is wise in all respects to support culture. I am very pleased that, as the Minister has already said in this referral debate, the government has already done these support measures for the cultural sector as a result of the corona situation, it has already received the necessary resources, in fact the last time, as much as it was sent out of the field, and so to speak, a little more is needed. The Minister said that it is to be expected that the next amending budgets will also be able to return to this type of issue, and I think it is important that cultural funding is taken care of in general. As I said, this VOS reform is particularly important for the accessibility of cultural provision throughout the country. This reform often concerns city theaters and city-ginorches, which are quite well-liked in the regions and also attract wider audiences. I would like to talk about the right of the public to have high-quality art and cultural provision across the country — I think that is an important point of view. President! To this end, I would like to underline once again that it is a good thing that in this law we can establish the status and funding of Tampere's Workers' Theatre, among other things. When we look back on history a few years ago, there was a huge risk of surgery in the air, because the working group took the position that this special position would have gone, but fortunately this did not happen. The Government Programme agreed that this special status would be safeguarded, and now the law is setting out to safeguard both the funding and the status as the main national stage. In time, when I became familiar with our working theatre — our wonderful “Worker ” — information,so much so as to gather audiences around Finland,the performance will be loved,already alonger tradition that this special status will take place. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u186	Madam President! The reform of the state section of the performing arts has been being prepared for a long time. It has not been completed as a whole in previous government terms. Last season, of course, the museum's share in the finish line was reached. Thank you again, Minister Saariko and Mr Puumala, for bringing this overall reform to the finish line and now that it is time to deal with it. The preparatory work has been carried out in broad consultation. That's a good thing. The motion is unanimous, and we are in the final stages. If this ‘art-site’,the expression of the representative who used it earlier in The reform of performing art responds to the change in the cultural field and improves the regional accessibility of culture. It brings an important culture and art for the mind and well-being of a person close to a person throughout our country. It also has a job-creating effect. The reform will create the conditions for a better opportunity to carry out flourishing, addressing and interesting cultural activities throughout Finland. The reform takes more into account different cultural producers, such as choirs, circuses and young freelancers, for example. I appreciate the encouragement of young new players. The importance of culture is emphasised in the difficult times we are living in today. Music, literature — art — contributes to comfort and strength so that we can live in difficult times. It is good that everyone can find the form of culture that suits them. It is therefore good to have a diversified supply. By supporting the field of performing art in a variety of ways, various actors can develop ways of bringing culture and art to homes, for example, when concert halls and theatres suffer from the effects of corona. Mr President! Creating an action and economic plan will bring long-term sustainability to performing art. Consideration of the specific groups is also to be welcomed. This reform will make our system of state participation more flexible. It supports the preservation and further development of a regional cultural network. That is why it is right to support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u187	Madam President! The starting point of this proposal is to reform the system of state participation of theatres and orchestras in order to reflect developments in the field of art, while preserving the functional solutions of the system of state participation created at the beginning of the 1990s. The scope of the law would be extended to cover all forms of performing art and would not be limited to certain designated forms of performing art. Performing art would mean all living artistic performances aimed at the public at a given moment. The Theatre and Orchestra Act came into force in 93 C.E., so it is high time to bring this law into line with the needs of time, and it is good that the reform is now finally taking place. The central government system of theatres, orchestras and museums provides a strong and clear basic funding for the national network of cultural institutions. The cultural and artistic institutions receiving the state's share form the backbone of regional cultural provision. Some 2.1 million visitors visit theatres and about one million visitors visit orchestra concerts each year. The cementisation of the old system has now begun to be resolved in the legislative proposal that is coming to Parliament with the inclusion of operators for a period of three years or for a period of time, but the activities of operators currently covered by the system will be evaluated every six years. From the point of view of the development of the free field and the entire field of performing art, it would be better if no actors were included in the funding for the time being, but also six years were fixed-term decisions. There has been not only an economic but also an artistic and quality assessment gap between the actors in the free field and the current VOS actors. In practice, free-field operators have been evaluated annually in connection with the application for an operating grant from the Arts Promotion Centre, but VOS operators have not been subject to any evaluation, but have been funded by cost structure and imputation. Madam President! Reform could be bolder and, from the point of view of the free field, it is still unfair, because the whole field of performing art is still not treated as one field that would be assessed with the same criteria, but a fundamental division remains. In preparation for the VOS reform, a huge number of discussions were held on the possibilities of developing the system in different ways, and there has been more than enough time to prepare it. The current government proposal was prepared by two separate working groups over a period of more than two years, and the latter largely addressed all the main shortcomings related to the presentation of the first working group. In addition, the reform debate has been more or less effective throughout the last decade. The pitfall of the law is that when it accepts new elements and new fields of art, which is necessary and good, it should at the same time be ensured that the total funding is increased. If there are more eaters, you have to grow the cake. Otherwise, the value of man-years will fall, and the result of a situation in which culture is financed by rain — that is, by dividing too little in every direction, too little for everyone — is easy to engage in instead of art and action. A special mention can be made of increasing the children’s theatre role. There is no more important cultural activity. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u188	Madam President! There is a government proposal to promote art that is presented as laws, and this package would replace the current theatre and orchestra code. The scope of this new legislative package would be more general than the current theatre and orchestra legislation, covering all forms of performing art and not limited to certain forms of performing art. We have already heard a number of experts in the Committee on Education and Rural Development on this legislative package, and they have given a positive opinion on this. This also has broad support for the field, because it does take into account all the living performances that have become more diverse and developed over the decades. The VOS reform takes into account and responds to developments and changes in the field of art. Culture is a major source of employment in Finland and there is a great demand for art across the country. It is important to support different fields of art also in a regional context. The importance of performing art for many regions and municipalities is very important not only for employment but also for well-being and people's comfort. It's also an attraction. This is also about the right of our citizens to high-quality art, including in our regions of origin. The renewed VOS system also includes a new evaluation panel that evaluates the quality of art. The self-financing of applicants will be assessed and a plan will be required for the coming years. This bill, when it comes into force, reduces the feeling of inequality created by the present system in the field of performing art. For a long time now, governments have tried to promote this reform, but it has not succeeded. Now the reform has been resourced so that it can be implemented. This is the implementation of the Marin Government programme, which mentions that cultural services are better accessible and that the conditions for cultural activity have been strengthened. As a friend of a diverse culture, I personally welcome this government proposal. In particular, securing the funding of Tampere Labour Theatre with increased support is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u189	Madam President! Art and culture play an enormous role in the well-being of people and also in the vitality of different regions. As Finns, we can be proud of the quality and variety of performing art we receive today in different parts of Finland. This government proposal will make a strong contribution to this. As has been the subject of this debate for a long time now, this state-share reform has long been in discussion and preparation. Finally, it will be achieved, thanks to the Minister for Culture and Science, Saariko, and also to the whole government. I must also point out the point of view that I myself am raised by cultural life in Kuhmo and I come from a province called Kainuu, where there is currently no professional orchestra of any kind. I know and believe that this reform will also enable Kainuu to create new, orchestral activities, which will then enable us Kainuus to offer even more cultural life. Since 2000, we have had an orchestra in Kuhmo and the base of orchestra activity has been in international operations so that there have been musicians around the world in the orchestra, quite a bit beyond the eastern border. I believe and hope that with this presentation this orchestral activity will become much better in the future. Thank you for the government's proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u190	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Indeed, culture is very important for the well-being of people, but, as has been mentioned here, the employment aspect of it is also very important for vitality, and then, of course, it is very important that we should have equal access to culture in the future. Of course, there is such concern here that the winnings are now waning, and this is undeniably such a small challenge for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u191	Madam President! Many of us were frightened: the previous Act on Theatre and Orchestra dates back to 93, and very soon after that, we have started to think about this state-owned reform of art. Now we're finally at the finish line. We have received a proposal from Parliament which has been widely commended. Today we thanked the minister and the ministry for the work done, but I would also broadly thank the actors in this field that such a rather unanimous entity has been brought to us. I would say to Mr S.H.I.E.L.D.: you were concerned that there could be no more cake dividers if the money remained, but it is a pleasure that this is now an increase of 10 million, that is to say an increase in the whole of the cake. At the heart of this is the accessibility of culture, and it is a great choice of values from the government — a regionally comprehensive cultural network is the pride of Finland as a whole, and that is what it will continue to be. This will only strengthen its position. In my view, the government's proposal has two essential incomes: territorial coverage and cultural diversity. The presentation supports the accessibility of culture throughout Finland, but also for age groups. Children's culture has been raised and promoted here, but it is equally critical to support the cultural activities of the elderly at this time. Everyone must have the opportunity to enjoy culture in a way that suits themselves. The proposal also means that more and more actors will be admitted to state participation without vaccination from traditional art field operators. As a circus enthusiast, among other things, I am very pleased that it is possible for new players to enjoy this system of state participation. Through art, we experience new things and it broadens, even during a difficult corona period. The sustainable development of society is really needed in the midst of the corona. All in all, the arts and culture sector has not come easily, as an example of this The loss of profit expectations, but equally this crisis in the field of events. In order to curb the spread of the disease, people’s gatherings have had to be significantly restricted and, after restrictions, people’s caution has been reflected in these ticket receipts. Korona has directly affected the purse of event production operators, and we have heard about it here in Parliament on several occasions. Some EUR 80 million has been allocated to art and cultural operators in this year's amending budget, but it is clear that it does not yet target all actors, when the sector is so exceptional, when we know that there is a lot of seasonality and a lot of freelance activity in the cultural sector. In this way I believe that in this situation we really need both more acute support and things like long-term
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u192	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a law on the promotion of performing art, which would replace the current theatre and orchestra legislation, and to amend the provisions on state participation in the act on the financing of education and culture. So we're talking about money. It is a very good thing that we support culture, especially in these times, because the crisis in the field of events has been real and deep. It is very important that we also allow small operators to have an influence there on the functioning and supply of culture. I myself bring up the Central Uusimaa Theatre, which works with a very small group and does good work and attracts people as well. It was very important, Mr Kemppi, that you raised the very issue that I myself would like to raise in this speech: the elderly and their opportunities to participate in cultural activities and in various presentations. I would also like our society to think about how we would increase the participation of those who are in nursing homes, who may be in a hospital, who are at home in home care, how we would get them involved. Those who enjoy a little performance, even a little song, even a little poem. It doesn't have to be so great that a man's day is brightened and his life is joyful. Yesterday I heard that my own mother had reached the Siilinjärvi Church at Bach’s concert, which means that concerts are being held, and she was very happy that she had been invited to attend the concert. Here in the Government's proposal it is said that the performing art unit should meet certain criteria to be included in the State's participation, and then there is a list of what the performance must be — professional, indeed, and it should have been regular. For example, these summer theaters are mentioned here. And here, Mr Kemppi, you mentioned the seasonal nature: somehow I would see that summer theatres usually have the same standard group there that is involved in the production and practice a year before, so their activities are very regular and long-term, so I would see that maybe summer theatres... I was amazed when I read that they were not covered by this law. Mr President! It was still nice to hear the Minister present and, if I understand correctly, this law will come into force immediately. So, in a way, we can then begin to assess its impact, and it is a good thing that operators are also supported and encouraged in this way. Culture belongs to everyone, but in particular I would like it to be accessible. I am sure that we can all do a great deal about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u193	Madam Speaker! When the name was mentioned, a few words have to be said here. In other words, when Mr Kempp mentioned that 10 million there are now known, that is not enough. So what has been estimated by the sector is 43.7 million, and this was already known two years ago, and the then opposition has declared this, so that in that sense I would now like to correct some of these readings. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u194	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u195	Madam President! As we know, the interest rate has led to a significant reduction in traffic volumes. Cycling boom is at its hottest, and with the transition to telework, the travel performances are falling. However, the Government proposal under discussion seeks to ensure that the transport sector achieves its binding renewable energy targets. This will be solved by increasing the transfer component that fuel distributors can transfer from this year to next year. The goal of Finland's objective of halving transport emissions by 2030 must be determined in all decision-making on transport. Efforts to reduce emissions from transport have been made to accelerate the exit from fossil fuels, reduce transport performances and, as a whole, contribute to a more sustainable transition. In order to achieve these objectives, fossil fuels must be replaced by an electrification of transport and an increase in the share of low-emission biofuels. Passenger and freight traffic must be transferred more and more from the sky and from rubber wheels to the tracks. The proportion of trips made with muscle power must also be increased by promoting walking and cycling. Madam President! From a natural or climate point of view, it does not matter how and where biofuels for transport are produced — whether virgin biomass is used for production, or whether, for example, fourth generation carbon neutral biofuels are spoken of. Differences in carbon footprint and ecology between biofuels can be very large. In the case of biofuels, the circular economy comes into play when biofuels are produced from waste and secondary streams in different sectors. The circular economy in the transport sector must also be encouraged. In addition to this government proposal, preparatory work is under way on the wider updating of the distribution obligation legislation. The extension of the obligation to distribute biofuels, i.e. the so-called bio-obligation to transport gases, will be examined, among other things. Biogas can be used as a renewable fuel for the production of electricity and heat and as a further refined transport gas, thus extracting the highest possible value added. The extension of the distribution obligation to transport gases could also accelerate the expansion of biogas vehicles and the expansion of the distribution network. In addition, by 2021 the spending limits debate will assess how taxation can encourage the purchase of gas cars and charging hybrids in addition to full electric cars. That is exactly the way I see it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u196	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u197	Thank you, Madam President. This is the government's proposal for the so-called epidemic compensation of EUR 60 million, which is intended to support the economies that have suffered financially from the interest rate in Finland. True Finns consider it justified that society supports low-income households and assumes responsibility for people’s ability to cope with the corona as well. True Finns support the support of people who are unemployed or laid off who have lost their livelihood as a result of the corona virus epidemic. Madam President! However, this government proposal does not quite hit the target that we Finns in Finland would have liked to target this EUR 60 million. This government proposal before us has been prepared on a very urgent basis. It has not been consulted during the preparatory work or an appropriate impact assessment has been carried out. In expert consultations, among other things, THL has pointed out that the proposed epidemic allowance is not effectively and comprehensively targeted at households affected by an epidemic in the form of a significant deterioration of economic disposable income or for which the epidemic has resulted in significant additional costs. In addition, THL has pointed out that the arguments put forward by the Government contain misleading information on the need for aid, since supplementary and preventive income support can respond to the situations used to justify the epidemic compensation. Moreover, only beneficiaries of basic income support will be eligible under the proposal, which will significantly limit the number of beneficiaries. In expert hearings The Finnish Federation of Child Welfare pointed out that families with children with low incomes, such as families where parents are studying or where the main source of income is, for example, parental allowance or home care allowance, or families receiving income support in the spring, but who are not entitled to compensation in accordance with the proposal, are excluded from the scope of the proposal. Restrictive measures may also have caused payment and subsistence difficulties for groups other than recipients of income support. In the expert hearing, the Guarantee Foundation highlighted as an example persons in a private debt arrangement who are not, as a rule, entitled to income support during the debt arrangement. However, their income may have been reduced and delayed due to layoffs and contributions to unemployment benefits, which may have led to a risk that compliance with the payment scheme may have been jeopardised or interrupted. The True Finns believe that instead of providing additional support to households that have been recipients of basic income support even before the onset of the corona virus epidemic, the subsidy amount should be allocated to households whose livelihoods have deteriorated or costs have increased precisely as a result of the corona epidemic. And this result would be achieved either by dividing the aid into earmarked money for municipalities, which would be used for supplementary income support specifically to compensate for the costs of the corona epidemic, or, alternatively, by allocating the amount of aid to the recipients of labour market support and its child raise as an epidemic payment. For these reasons, the Finns of Peru are suggesting that the legislative proposals under discussion are rejected and that the government prepares a new proposal on an urgent basis, and this is accompanied by our statement, which I shall also make here. So in their statement, the True Finns state that: ‘The Board of Directors requires that measures be taken without delay to achieve provisional legislation in order to make the In the opinion of the Finns Party, bill proposals should be made calmly, they should be asked for statements and the impact of bill proposals should also be well assessed. It is a pity that we are putting forward legislative proposals in the early stages, but not all those who would have needed this support — 60 million. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u198	Madam President! As I said earlier in the debate on the amending budget, and as Mr Juvonen has said here, this was a proposal from the government that was prepared as a matter of urgency, and it is indeed reflected in the proposal, and I believe that it should have been reinstated. However, since this did not happen, the True Finns have objected to what Arja Juvonen just read. I support this objection, and I also support the statement made by Mrs Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u199	Madam President! I would like to ask you to take the floor on this subject, even though it was already discussed here. I would just like to draw attention now to the fact that I find it wrong to say that this support is only for those who have received income support before the corona epidemic. This is precisely a question of paying the October subsidy to those who have received the basic income support in September. If it comes back from September — I am not sure about this now — it comes to those who have had the basic element of income support in August. In other words, it is not a question of the fact that some time before the corona epidemic in Finland started, it has received income support, but it is always mirrored for each month — that is what I asked the experts separately in the committee. So it's always mirrored in the previous month when we've had that corona epidemic all along. This is one detail, but it was highlighted in that way when you spoke strongly just now about this being paid to those who have received income support before we had the corona epidemic. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u200	Mr President! We understand that things must be done quickly during the epidemic, but in this context the opinion of the National Institute for Health and Welfare, which knows best about this issue, is very striking. It is stated specifically that ‘the presentation of this proposal is illustrative in its reasoning’,andthat it explains time pedagogically why the aid which is Since this is not so rocket science, this rather poorly thought and prepared presentation is. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u201	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u202	Mr President! I would like to say a few words about this in my capacity as chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. This performance itself is quite simple and quite unproblematic. In short, for everyone who wants to know what this is about, this is about people ordering trips from a travel agency, so if a travel agency goes bankrupt, people may lose these payments they pay there. There are also guarantee arrangements for this, but in this exceptional situation, in the event that the tour operator goes bankrupt, there is a slight extension of the liability of the State in such a situation. This is not a very complicated law, but in this situation it is well-founded, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was unanimous in adopting this government's proposal, the law itself. In my opinion, it is not worth spending a great deal of time on this content, at least I cannot say anything very wise about it any more. But I would also like to say that there is an objection here, the essence of which is that Parliament should adopt the proposal for a statement in accordance with the objection, which I am now reading here. It states: ‘The Council of Staterequiresthatthe Member Staterequiresthebodyto report onthe effectiveness ofcostsupportsupplemented bythe Court of Justice and the proposal for a model of aid which is gearedtotheconstraint of assembly and travel in In other words, I shall now make a statement in response to this objection. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u203	Mr President! As Mr Vartiainen said, the actual content of the law was quite unproblematic overall, so it is indeed a matter of compensation for passengers in the event that the tour operator, the travel agent, goes bankrupt and cannot compensate for the unrealised journeys. Of course, you can also ask whether it would not be a priority to prevent these bankruptcys and to act on the part of the State so that travel restrictions are as clear and predictable as possible and that, for example, the traffic light model, which has been presented in Finland, should be easily understood. The travel agency sector has now stated that it only has red and green, but there are practically no other intermediate forms, and even those lights change a little bit as it happens. This statement, made here by Mr Vartiainen, relates precisely to the fact that some of the representatives of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy felt that we urgently needed a proposal on the way in which sectors which have suffered exceptionally much from these travel restrictions and assembly restrictions, such as the event sector and the travel agency sector, would receive interest-rate subsidies in the future, because in practice they have not been fully subsidised. The criteria have been highly unsuccessful in these areas and have not responded to the fact that they could have been properly applied in these areas. Therefore, Mr President, I am in favour of the representative. A statement made by the guard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u204	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 21/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u205	Mr President! Another word on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. This proposal is, in fact, extremely technical, because it corrects and amends only the very minor legal shortcomings that have been identified in the previous anti-money laundering legislation. This specifies and corrects the information that has to be disclosed to the authorities. There is, in fact, nothing more than this legal content here, and the committee was of course unanimous on this issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u206	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 22/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u207	Mr President! More greetings from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. This is the background to the European Community's so-called CLP Regulation and its Article 45, which obliges Member States to set up a national poison information centre. It therefore refers to a place where there is knowledge of the various dangerous substances used in society in the economy and in research or elsewhere, and where the principles of such data registers are harmonised, the way in which users and processors of such substances are required to report on these matters is determined. In Finland, this means that the Poisoning Information Centre under HUS will have new tasks when it is now required to maintain this information system required by the European Chemicals Agency for Finland. This too was such that we laymen had little to say about this — it seemed reasonable, and the committee was unanimous. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u208	Mr President! That is precisely why Mr Vartiainen raised it a few weeks ago, when I heard that this government proposal was coming, I thought that the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should also have been asked for. But it has been all right, and it was precisely because, as Mr Vartiainen said, in practice, the action in which the greatest benefit comes from these things takes place and has long taken place as part of the organisations of the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa. There is a Poisoning Information Centre, which is a 24-hour unit and which in practice is financed by the joint funding of all Finnish health care districts, with certain minor contributions, so that everyone participates in it. It is precisely these information systems and this new information which Mr Vartiainen referred to here. This has gone in the right direction and in all respects well, but it would perhaps have been useful to ask for the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, because this is specifically about the operation of special care in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u209	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 23/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u210	Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also discussed this government proposal — this is a little more interesting from an economic point of view. This is a question of creating a register for public authorities in European Union countries of the way in which business aid has been granted to companies, in particular state aid which, in one way or another, is linked to European Union schemes. At the moment, the various authorities will create a database for the joint use of the authorities, which will show what subsidies are being granted and how much they have been granted to each company. This is a very sensible thing because it will make it easier for both the authorities and the companies applying for and receiving aid. When, of course, the authorities have to take account of whether the company has received other subsidies in the course of their decision to grant aid, and the companies applying for the aid generally have to report on all other subsidies, this is now going to be the same automatics that will facilitate the operation of both parties as is the case with the pre-filled tax return. And although this will not be created immediately as a common European solution, because in all the countries of the European Union this kind of register is now being created, in the future it will also provide opportunities for international exchange of information. This was also a proposal which the committee unanimously supported without amendment. The committee also welcomed the fact that it wanted to emphasise in the report that, when such a register was created, its statistical data should also be readily available to researchers to assess the impact and impact of these subsidies on the economy. Indeed, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is unanimously in favour of adopting the proposed legislation. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u211	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, TyVM 12/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u212	Madam President! It was absolutely necessary to advertise that good directives sometimes come from Europe, such as the clarification of the rules on remuneration for posted or posted workers, the equalisation of accommodation conditions and the employer's obligation to compensate for travel, accommodation and catering costs, i.e. legislation that allows for equal treatment between posted workers and workers in national activities and also has a positive effect on competition between companies, i.e. equal competition rules are also more effective. So sometimes there will be good rules of the game in Brussels. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u213	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 21/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u214	Madam President! For the first time in a year and a half, with the experience of parliamentarians, I am faced with the fact that the committee advisers Salo and Sintonen have made contact during this meeting, as well as the current chairman of our committee, Mr Salmon, and they have made it clear to me that there are factual errors in the draft law of the government. There is a lack of text in the fourth section, that is to say, there has already been a lack of text at the time when the government proposal has been made and it has passed this process of processing. I therefore propose that this matter be referred back to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. This came to me as a bit of a surprise. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u215	Madam President! I support Mr Lindén's proposal. There is really nothing that would bring down worlds here, but we want all the pieces of legislation in place, which are in the legislation in force and which we want to keep in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u216	With the support of Mrs Kyllönen, Mr Lindén has proposed that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. It is now up to us to decide whether to continue the first reading of the matter on the basis of the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health or whether to send it to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Do you want to discuss the referral to committee?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u217	Mr President! However, that is where I pressed to ask for the floor. It is important that we do what we have to do and send it back to committee. It may also tell us, if I may say, that we have big issues, important issues and a lot for the members of the committee to study and clarify, as well as by committee advisers. In other words, it is very important that this issue should be made the way it should be.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u218	In other words, there is support for this referral to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u219	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u220	Mr President! If I look at the number of the law correctly, this is the second reading of this, which I have just presented: this legislation temporarily exempting from VAT the products used here on the European Union market and at home from the instruments necessary for the management of the interest rate. And this is based on the fact that the Commission has, in due course, made such a temporary change, that non-EU instruments will be exempt from VAT, which is of course a positive thing, and in this case it is a question of this neutrality of competition that we should also be able to get those in charge of VAT at home and within the European Union. What has been discussed to some extent is what this scope is. But in this case, the Commission's interpretation, which we have ensured in Finland, including in the committee, is that this applies to private producers when public services are produced, that is to say, this is the line of action that is there. That is what we have been protesting against from the assembly or from the Christian Democrats, but otherwise this will be seen as a very good exception. And the other, of course, is that we don't know... This period will now be extended by three months, and it may be that the world will unfortunately be the case that we will soon have to return to this issue again. This is the second time that we are talking about it here, but if it is, then it will certainly be the third time. We expect this to be followed up, but in this context it is not possible to extend it by more than three months, because this is dependent on the Commission's action. So this is briefly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u221	Madam President! There is, therefore, a report from the committee which proposes that the VAT law be extended to the extent that VAT is not paid to covid-19, i.e. to the sale of goods necessary for the outbreak of corona virus or to the acquisition of Community goods by an operator who supplies goods free of charge to producers of public health and medical services or social services or to public operators, to organisations approved by the competent authorities of the Member States or to bodies of general interest within the meaning of the VAT Act, and this zero rate also applies to sales to State operators. Mr President! It is good that this law is being passed on. That's where we experienced chaos during the corona virus epidemic. We ran out of masks, ran out of gloves, ran out of protective clothing, and, if not, were at such high prices that at least ordinary citizens could not buy them. This does not affect ordinary citizens, but it does seem that when a person applies for such services, he may feel that there are protective equipment and equipment there, and certainly they will also be given there at the bottom of the pocket when he goes on his way home, such as a face mask, and that is why it is important that these prices remain affordable. It has also been all right to note that prices in those stores have fallen slightly, and it is desirable that in the future price reductions should also be what we see, so that people can buy these protective equipment, because these really do matter. At the time of the corona virus epidemic there was a great deal of conflicting information, and perhaps it will be difficult for people to understand afterwards when it was said that there was no point in giving a mask recommendation and masks and that discussion was very contradictory, and now it is said that the use of these masks is recommended. People are a little skeptical and ask if this makes any sense. Even then, the Finns believed that this makes sense: masks are used. In that sense, the bill is a good one, and three months is a good period to look at. We don't know what's gonna happen next. It may be that the law is being continued. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u222	Madam President! Mr Viitanen drew attention to this deadline, and now the deadline ends at the end of October, that is to say a three-month deadline. However, since these issues now have their own time processes and have now passed for a few months, I assume that this issue will be of the kind – and if we look at the situation in Europe – that this will soon become a new initiative for the EU to continue with this. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that, from now on, this does not apply for three months, but until the end of October, but we in Finland cannot unilaterally continue to do so, because this is a matter common to the whole of the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u223	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u224	Madam President! Our task is to create new work in Finland while preserving existing jobs in the midst of an economic crisis. In order to achieve the government's employment objective, a wide range of measures are needed. This change in the law will increase the labour market participation of groups with lower employment rates than the average, such as part-time, hard-to-work young people, older people and those with immigrant backgrounds. In the municipal survey commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in 2013, municipalities also raised the goal of rehabilitating work activities as a priority for open labour market employment, that a person can get a job. The aim should therefore be to empower people involved in rehabilitative work activities and to provide them with the capacity to do the work, and the work will bring meaning and purpose to their lives in many ways. It is also worth taking advantage of continuous learning. It is worthwhile working together with educational institutions in a spirit of continuous learning. The impact of employment in the law amendment has been considered slightly in different directions. It's been a long time since they've been downplayed. I see the employment effect of the change but also the importance of the person involved in the rehabilitation work for his development. In order to ensure that rehabilitative work activities serve society and the customer as well as possible, it is important that the law provides more detailed provisions on the organisation, production and content of the work activities. Rehabilitative work activities must be meaningful to the person so that the strengths of the person involved can be demonstrated through the activities and develop them on their path to employment and lifelong learning. The proposed clarifications oblige municipalities to ensure that rehabilitative work activities are targeted and that adequate support and guidance are provided. The content of the support and guidance received by each customer must be defined in the activation plan or cross-sectoral employment plan. This is really necessary. Mr President! It is in everyone's interest that the resources used for rehabilitating work activities are used effectively to provide a high-quality service.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u225	Madam President! There is a report from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. This proposal proposes to amend the law on rehabilitative work. The purpose of this proposal is to improve the regulation of the organisation and production of rehabilitative work activities. In addition, a provision on the definition of the content of rehabilitative work activities will be added to the law. Rehabilitation work activities should always include the support and guidance needed by the person, and the activation plan and the cross-sectoral employment plan should also include the objective of rehabilitating work activities and the support and guidance given to persons during rehabilitation work activities. Mr President! This is a very important issue, and the Finns of Peru also consider these things that are now being taken forward to be very important. For us Finns, it has also been important that when rehabilitative work is developed, account is also taken of the fact that professional skills and know-how are maintained and that there are also sufficient staff. It is a very good thing that these concerns are also raised here in the joint committee report, which is, of course, also shared by other members of the committee. The committee therefore raised concerns about the ability of municipalities to finance services, the state level of compensation for rehabilitation and the availability of social welfare professionals, and the need to clarify professional qualifications in employment services under different laws. It is very important that responsibility for the implementation of the activation plan for rehabilitating work activities lies with the municipality’s social action and that the person responsible for assessing the need for services has appropriate vocational training in social care. It is also necessary to draw up and update an activation plan in cooperation with operators who are necessary for the individual, as we say in this committee's report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-29-ps-120.u226	Mr President! I wanted to take the floor and thank the opposition and Mr Juvo for his constructive feedback. This current law on rehabilitating work has been seen as a little and a little unclear, namely that this rehabilitating work activity has also been directed at people who do not belong there, and now the aim of this government proposal is to specify the organisation and production of rehabilitating work activities. - Thank you.
