ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please. The THL has issued a new recommendation today on the use of facial masks. As a result, facial masks will also be introduced in Parliament's plenary room, and masks are recommended to be used all the time in the Chamber, including when talking. In addition to this, we will continue to take care of safety distances in the Chamber, and therefore there will be a smaller number of representatives in the Chamber at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u2	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u3	Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u4	Mr President! School bullying is a widespread and heartbreaking problem that often has far - reaching effects on the victim’s life. There must be zero tolerance for physical and mental violence. This week we have been shocked by a case of school violence, where the perpetrators and the victim are primary schoolchildren. The police are forced to interfere with weekly school behavior. It's up to us to make sure no one has to be afraid at school. My question is: What does the government do to ensure that every child has peace in school and mental and physical integrity? What is the government’s message to countless worried parents whose child is afraid to go to school in the morning? What are the better tools and tools?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u5	Mr President! Just as the representative himself says, this is a matter for us. Education providers, teachers and school adults have an unambiguous legal responsibility to ensure that the right of all children to a safe learning environment and to a safe school day is also realised. And every single serious act of violence or bullying means that we, as a society, have failed to safeguard the fundamental rights of these children. What is essential to reduce bullying in schools is that we have effective policies, that there is information about them, that there is cooperation with both youth work and other authorities, and that we have enough adults at school who also have enough time to develop the school's culture and to combat bullying. This parliamentary term will include increasing resources for student and student care and providing binding dimensions for these services, and will also include:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u6	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u7	Mr President! Last season, under the leadership of Minister of Education Grahn-Laasonen, an expert report on the prevention of bullying was completed, which was already launched by the previous government. What action has this government taken with regard to these prepared proposals for measures? Secondly, Mr President, the government is moving school psychologists and curators to the mercy of regional social welfare organisations, so one important way of tackling school violence and bullying is to be removed from the principals. It is important for psychologists and curators to work as close as possible, as an integral part of the school’s everyday life. The government's proposal makes it even harder for professionals to get help.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u8	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, the Ministry of Education and Culture indeed worked with such a large group of experts, who made a very commendable report on how to prevent and reduce school bullying. Unfortunately, the previous government did not have much time to take these measures, but they have been implemented and will be implemented during this parliamentary term. Among other things, a project to develop children's socio-emotional skills, i.e. a project to combat bullying in early childhood education, has already been launched, the Finnish National Board of Education has produced and is about to publish a guide on school bullying in schools, and in addition, the Finnish National Board of Education has also invested in continuing training, safety and inclusion of teaching staff. These were all proposals for measures that this group of experts made. As far as school psychologists and school curators are concerned, this whole set of social welfare laws is currently under discussion, and the government's main starting point is:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u9	I would like to remind you that one minute is for ministers and representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u10	A number of questions have been asked on this same subject, followed by Mr Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u11	Mr President! In accordance with the law, every child has the right to a safe study environment. Recent news of school violence in Vantaa is just the tip of the iceberg. Direct school violence takes place every day around Finland. In this parliamentary term, too, good initiatives have been heard to prevent bullying and school violence, such as the fact that the bully should change schools, not the bully. We Finns also supported, for example, the inclusion of adults with therapeutic abilities in schools. However, the government does not seem to be satisfied with the proposals — fine words are enough. No child should be assaulted at school. So why does the government not accept the openings made, such as the fact that the bully should change schools and not the bully? And would it be appropriate, as proposed by the OAJ, to allow the principals to deny the bully the right to education and to demand that matters be clarified with the psychologist?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u12	Mr President! First of all, of course, it is hoped that all the parliamentary parties will participate in the work that is being done in Finland to prevent bullying, and this government will, in addition to all these measures already mentioned in the Government Programme, draw up a programme of measures to prevent bullying and loneliness, and that I will — and I have already announced that I will — involve all the parliamentary parties, because I see this as a matter of common concern for all of us and I know that all the groups also have proposals and views on how to deal with it. As far as changing schools are concerned, Finnish legislation guarantees the right of all pupils to education in their local schools and the school cannot force the student to change schools contrary to the wishes of the guardians. In addition, experts do not support such measures to prevent bullying, as bullying is usually a much more complex phenomenon. It usually involves more than one student,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u13	Mr President! The school world and child rearing have changed. Schools are larger, and disorders are occurring in younger children. Small village schools have been closed down, open study environments have increased concentration problems, and respect for adults, for example, has disappeared. The dramatic increase in the number of children in foreign languages has also brought their own problems. An irresponsible immigration policy is likely to increase insecurity in schools due, among other things, to language barriers and cultural differences. The unwillingness to integrate is visible early. Teachers are often afraid to tackle bullying situations in fear of kicks, parents, racist charges and charges. My question is: does the government recognise the root causes that I have mentioned at all, which increase the level of insecurity in schools, and how do you intend to make it easier for teachers to tackle problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u14	Mr President! I do, however, alienate this kind of talk and thinking, thinking that it is as if the cause of bullying was a certain group of children or from elsewhere — this is by no means the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u17	Congressman Kiljunen Anneli.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u18	Madam President! School bullying and violence against children and young people is never acceptable. In Finland, everyone must feel safe. In particular, this must be done in the case of children. Children are vulnerable when they are bullied. Now social media has made bullying even more brutal. It allows bullying that reaches the victim everywhere: home, school, leisure, morning, day and night. Violence situations of bullying through social media are also spread to other people. At its worst, this will have a negative impact on the health, well-being and the rest of the life of the child. Mr President! So I ask Minister Andersson: what are the immediate steps taken by the government to tackle the problems of bullying, but especially social media?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u19	Mr President! Just as the questioner said, today’s school life presents challenges, as noted here, that bullying has also shifted increasingly to different social media platforms and different types of channels. That is the work that is being done through the National Board of Education to strengthen the skills of teachers in detecting this kind of bullying is extremely important. It will be supported during this parliamentary term. Co-operation between home and school is also extremely important in detecting this type of bullying, because it is often the case that at home siblings or parents may also detect messages from social media in a different way than the teacher in the everyday life of the school. In addition to this, youth workers are increasingly active in social media channels, and I think it is extremely important that they are also present so that young people can contact them on a low threshold if they are subjected to discrimination, bullying or mental illness.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u20	Mr President! Bullying has been the side of the world, and we all know its negative effects, and we know there is no hocus-pocus trick to get it out of it all of a sudden. Here are some good examples of how online it is much, much easier than physically. We cannot assume that it is only the one who is tempted who is being helped, but that the bully also needs help, and multiprofessional help. When you think about those root causes, we should look into them. When you think of the fact that we have 20 percent of children and young people with mental health problems, the ADHD diagnosis — its prevalence is 5 percent — not to mention substance abuse problems, family problems, should we not now put all the available resources into the building and early intervention of the stone leg? I know it's been done, but it's far too little. Don't you think it's a good idea to invest specifically in the rock and not build new layers?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u21	Mr President! I think that we should and must do both—that, therefore, we need to invest in the early stages, in the early years and, for example, in the second stage. The speaker is quite right that there are no quick hock tricks, but that we are long-term support for those working in the education sector, that resources are sufficient and that knowledge of good practices is also spread across Finland. In this context, I attach the utmost importance to this model of support for early childhood education, which will now also take the form of a legislative project during this parliamentary term, and in order to strengthen this long-term work, these additional contributions will also be made to student and student care, which will target both basic education and secondary education, yes, and are essential here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u22	Mr President! Bullying and violence are a nightmare not only for the victims but also for their parents, because nothing is worse for a normal person than the feeling that you cannot protect your own child. It is perfectly understandable that people have felt about the Vantaa case, and I hope that this rage will lead to more than worrying tweets or zero tolerance declarations from decision-makers. There are certainly many reasons behind violence and bullying, but the victim cannot wait for the root causes to be resolved. Teachers must have the means and legal backs to act immediately. The very fact that there are no such means leads to bullying being swept under the carpet until something terrible happens. My question to the government is: will there be more concrete means of rapid action for teachers?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u23	Mr President! Unfortunately, the questioner did not specify what type of means he means or what means he would like to add to the range of means. Of course, what can already be done in school life is about removing the student from the classroom, teaching space, ordering detention, also sending the student home, and, in extreme cases, temporary separation is also possible in basic education. Similarly, if you talk about very serious cases, you also have criminal liability if you talk about the providers of education, or even liability for damages. By the way, as far as legislative changes are concerned, we were meant to go through the proposals made by this group of experts during the last period to amend the legislation as part of the work that all the parties will do together in the framework of this programme of measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u24	Madam President! All physical and mental violence is reprehensible. Every case is too much. When self-esteem and dignity crumble and fear is replaced, empowerment takes time. The community atmosphere in schools reduces bullying. New friends, hobbies, safe adults, communities help. I ask the ministers: how do we promote respect for and tolerance of diversity in schools, except that we ourselves show the model here in Parliament and show respect for each other? How can we support the principals as leaders and creators of the stimulating atmosphere of schools in the midst of the coronas?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u25	Mr President! In my opinion, the speaker did well to point out that the example is a great force, and in this respect we all have a role and responsibility in Finnish society, both adults and children. As far as the school's culture of action is concerned, I would perhaps stress and repeat what I said earlier, that what is essential is that there are enough adults with enough time. And this is extremely timely, too, now that local authorities in various parts of Finland are currently considering rather difficult choices in relation to the economy: if you have to save money, what you save. And, yes, my strong message as Minister of Education has been that every time savings and cuts are directed at a teaching or education system, it is also the taking away of resources from the work that schools do to strengthen and develop the school's culture and against bullying.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u26	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u27	Mr President! School bullying and violence have caused concern in all of us — not just in the light of the news of recent days, but because bullying, acts of violence and nausea among children and young people have risen in all recent student surveys. They are the sad everyday life of a Finnish school. We must no longer close our eyes and ears to this matter. Teachers and principals must have the tools — and the obligation — to deal effectively with violence at school or secondary school and to receive assistance to prevent situations from police and social authorities, for example through Ankkuri activities. Minister Andersson or Minister Ohio, what are the low-threshold measures and obligations to address school violence and bullying in the future for students, teachers and schools and educational institutions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u28	Mr President! Firstly, I think it is important to stress — that the message is clear — that there is already an obligation to tackle bullying. It is already in the legislation of the providers of education, of all those who work at school, and I think it is important that both parents and children themselves know about it. As the questioner said, low-threshold services — cooperation models, what has been developed — exist throughout Finland. Cooperation with child welfare authorities, in many cases also with police preventive work, has produced good results. It has also been a way of sharpening students of all ages that in serious cases it may be a matter of mental or physical violence, that is, an act that can fill the criminal record. Also with third-sector actors, various organisations, good work is done in different parts of Finland against bullying, for example, in dealing with difficult and long-standing bullying cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u29	Mr President! This is a very important question, and it is great that this concern is shared throughout this Chamber together and that we can all work together on it. As has been mentioned here, this multi-professional working model — the Ankkuri team as one example — is already a very well-functioning model in which the police, together with social services, health services and youth work, have already intervened when they have not yet become too bad. At worst, bullying is already a criminal matter. The government has already made progress in this regard. It has increased the resources of the police, and, for example, this year's new funds have been earmarked specifically for the prevention of crimes against children, and of course this work cannot stop what this government is doing. This has to go a long way from here. The interest crisis has shown that people who are already in a difficult position have also suffered more and more. The fact that, for example, there has been no multiprofessional cooperation in child protection reports shows that the interest rate may, at its worst, exacerbate situations where no intervention can be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u30	Madam Speaker! I would like to point out a little more about the use of social media for children and young people, because their problems may not have been talked about enough, they are not awakened to them. There is not just the possibility of bullying, but when children are in a weaker position when they grow up, the use of social media — in fact, according to several studies in the United States — increases mental health problems. The superficiality that's in there distorts the self-image. It causes some serious nausea for future adults, which society will then pay for. True Finns would like to ask about the use of a mobile phone in schools. Do you need that cell phone tossing at that school when I'm sure you can see that when you're an adult you have enough time to shoplift? The Assistant Ombudsman has now ruled that teachers are not allowed to collect pupils' cell phones for an hour. Do you even need to use that smartphone during school day? I ask the Minister whether you intend to make the required legislative changes to the mobile phones
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u31	Mr President! As a general practice, the Minister for Education has little to do with matters related to the everyday life of schools, i.e. this type of activity, which are more [MikaNiikkoarvo]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u32	Mr President! The violence that has taken place at a school in Vantaa is shocking and, unfortunately, as has been said here, it is not unique. Instead of asking here what you or someone else could do, we could all ask ourselves: what can I do? Every one of us who has children, everyone who deals with children, is responsible for the fact that our society is such that it is safe for every child to come to school. I am pleased that Mr Andersson told us that these measures, presented by experts, are now being implemented. The National Board of Education brings instructions, that's very good. For my part, I have tried to ensure that in our city of Vantaa, we now ensure that all operating models are in order and that this would never happen again. However, that is not enough; we need all the adults involved. In the short term, more adults are hired, creating practically this kind of Ankkuri-type model for these serious cases. But, Minister of Education Andersson, I would like to ask: instead of thinking about new things,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u33	Mr President! I agree with the questioner quite clearly that, of course, every person has a responsibility for the example we set, a responsibility for how we behave towards each other both in this Chamber and outside this Chamber, for example in social media channels, which we were previously concerned about. And I personally believe that if there is something that unites politicians, it will unite the parties from different sides of the political scale in Finland, then the work against bullying at school. I believe that we share the strong will to ensure that in this respect the rights of all Finnish children are also realised, and this has been one of the reasons why I have wanted to involve all the parliamentary parties in this work on the action programme, that we can also together send out a signal to the whole Finnish society that this is a common issue and that is something on which we all agree.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u34	Mr President! Whenever bullying at school is tackled, a strong message is sent to the whole community that this must not happen again, and that is an important message. But when we interfere with bullying, we are often late. It has been the sad situations of the years before, the pressures of the years, it has often continued from primary to secondary school, and it follows that person even to adulthood. Early signs of bullying are already visible in day care centres. It's more of an exclusion of another child, an exclusion from the game. We know, as the Minister said, that a lot of work is already being done in kindergartens to improve children's emotional skills and to play together, and this is important. Often, however, the bully’s background is the nausea of his own family. Minister, the corona crisis has increased custody disputes, problems with relationships,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u35	Mr President! It is very important to note that children’s problems are family problems. That is why the commitment of the whole Parliament to family policy is essential. Support for children’s and families’ everyday lives goes hand in hand. In this respect, we are, first of all, increasing significantly the resources to genuinely make changes in the services of children and families and to respond to the needs of today's families. On the other hand, we need to start support measures much earlier, much more intensively, so that, as soon as a problem arises, children and young people can deal with it. In this respect, raising the needs of student and student care is essential, as Minister Andersson has already pointed out. Furthermore, the extension of low-threshold support services to school so that discussion aid starts immediately is an essential factor,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u36	Mr President, värderade talman! Alla barn har rätt till en trygg skolgång och alla former av mobbning och våld mellan eleverna måste genast åtgärdas och stoppas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u37	Mr President! The government can play its part and it is the government's responsibility to make sure that the seriousness of the matter is understood throughout Finnish society. Once again, I see that it is a matter in which everyone in this Chamber can play their part. Many victims of bullying have been in contact and have just pointed out that, in serious cases, it is not bullying at school, but outright violence, mental or physical. And I also think that this is an important message in relation to the seriousness of the issue. Interaction between home and school is essential, for example, between student and student care and other professional groups. Once again, I see that we take care of the resources of education — that there will be no cuts or reductions in teaching staff, that we will now strengthen student and student care, that we will bring in the dimensions — to support and support this interaction,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u38	Madam President! In Sweden, teachers have a total working time, which in practice means that they are present at school from eight to four, and from experience I know that they also have time for tutoring, they have time to solve bullying situations, and they have time to communicate with parents, not only through Wilma. In Finland, this obligation does not apply to the total working time. In Sweden and Norway, students are also entitled to compensation if bullying is not sufficiently addressed. Do you think, Minister of Education, that these are tools to tackle this problem of bullying?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u39	Mr President! Thank you to the representative for very specific questions and proposals for solutions. Perhaps that is how much I will say that these issues relating to working time are not in the government toolbox but are the responsibility of the social partners who negotiate them. In other respects, as I said earlier, there may also be a liability for damages in Finland when it comes to the providers of education — in the event of a serious case in which the teacher has failed to fulfil his own legal obligations to secure this safe study environment — and in some extreme cases also criminal liability in relation to civil service offences.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u40	Mr President! A very important debate, and it is very important that we also get the message that every act of violence is one too many. bullying at school, when it is a form of abuse, is also a crime, and even if the offender is under 15 years of age, he may also be liable for damages. That is something that must also be borne in mind. It is also good for each parent to remind his own children that no one should be bullied, not physically, not mentally, and that they can be held responsible even if they are not 15 years old. Parents are responsible for their own children, have this kind of control responsibility, and parents may also be liable for damages if their children commit a criminal act. This is also a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u41	Madam President! Violence at Vantaa school is a serious crime, and it is important that every home in every school and also here in Parliament is stopped to think about what we can do to prevent a similar event. Teachers have raised strong concerns that the government is now moving student care to the provinces, which is the most important way to influence and prevent bullying and tackle violence. Last night, psychologists, key experts, said that this move, not just as a transfer of government, but as a change of section, is destroying its key means, because student care can help children and young people and indeed prevent violence and bullying in schools. I appeal and ask you, government, to hear this distress call from experts and to withdraw that motion. This is particularly important because even a significant proportion of serious bullying and acts of violence do not come to the ears of adults. My question is: what is the government going to do to make children dare to speak, dare to tell about violence and bullying?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u42	Mr President! It is now very important that we realise that there is no point in the government's draft for social services which has already been invoked twice in this debate and given the impression that curators and psychologists serving students would be transferred from schools and educational institutions. This is not the case. This is a reform of social welfare and health care, in which we say that school and student health care are health care services. Are these people who are all social and health professionals — four groups of professionals — who serve children and young people within the framework of this school network, by principals or are they led by social welfare and health care managers? This proposal for social services is based on the assumption that these services will remain and will always be provided as local services in schools and educational institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u43	Mr President! Even under the Basic Education Act and the Vocational Education Act, students and students are entitled to a safe study environment, but these points of law are currently not fulfilled. During this term of government, too, a number of different initiatives have been taken by the government across party boundaries. Some of these new preventive approaches have been piloted with truly encouraging results in Finland or abroad, i.e. concrete solutions to problems could be found. The solution in a nutshell: knowledgeable skills, a well-being school environment, well-being pupils, well-being teachers and student care. You don't have to tease a well-being child or an adult. There is also better learning in a well-being school environment. My dear government, what progress have all these proposals made to you? Can we say they won't work if you don't even try them more? This is precisely what shows the indifference of the government and why we really cannot say that we have done everything we can to prevent violence and bullying at school. Everything to everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u44	Mr President! This government has launched over 300 million projects called the Right to Learn, with the aim of strengthening quality and equality in both early childhood education and basic education. What is being done in concrete terms in this project is that we also provide financial resources for training providers, for example, to implement these preventive approaches. Perhaps the difference is that I do not think it wise for the government to go and say exactly how all the different municipalities and schools should act, but I trust that schools will also know whether there is a need for a psychiatric nurse in this school environment for us, whether there is a need for more special teachers, whether there is a need for youth workers or perhaps a need for school grandmothers or coaches. We have a wide range of good practices, and I see that we best support these preventive approaches by ensuring that resources are available there in the daily lives of educational institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u45	Madam Speaker! No one's watching the schools. No one will ensure that the providers of education do enough to deal with situations of school violence. In Sweden and Norway it is possible to apply for damages even in situations like this. Even in Finland, legislation would make this possible, but we do not have supervision. We do not have common plans and operating models to deal with school violence, either nationally or municipally. Every school gets to do its job the way it wants to. In one school the measures work, in the other they do not, and in such schools may be the point of view of each other. On top of everything else, this is a huge problem of equality. Here are just a few problems to mention. They are very clear, fundamental, structural, nothing new needs to be done to correct them, and in addition, these remedies might still be very cost-neutral. In addition to the above, I would now like to ask the honourable government: when do we really get to work, because there is something to fix?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u46	Mr President! Work has already been started, work needs to be done all the time, and they also need to continue after this reign. Today, during Question Time, I have already listed a number of measures that have been taken: we have launched this big Justice Learn project last autumn, we have implemented the proposals proposed by this large group of experts who worked in the last parliamentary term. In addition, we will have a programme of measures in which we will involve all the parliamentary parties. We will change the legislation on early childhood education in order to strengthen support for learning, and we will strengthen the resources of student and student care and we will set binding dimensions for these services. These are some examples of what this government will do during this parliamentary term. But this work will only succeed if it is long-term if everyone in this Chamber is committed to taking care of our civilised services and their future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u47	Next question, Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u48	Madam President! The Christian Democrats have not accepted the creation of an EU recovery fund because we do not want to commit ourselves for decades to the EU's common debt as its payer and guarantor. The government, on the other hand, has committed itself to this whole and justified it, among other things, by the fact that it is a one-off issue. For example, the Minister for Finance, Mr Vanhanen, recently stated that Finland does not accept the recovery package as a permanent one. However, the European Central Bank has now stated that the EU should make the fund permanent. The same has previously been said by the French Minister for Finance, Emmanuel Macro, and also by the German Minister for Finance. Next week there will be an EU summit and we will take a stand on this own resources agreement, which will enable the recovery instrument to be borrowed, 750 billion. My question to the minister concerned is: will the Finnish Government now, in the own resources agreement, require a clear record of:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u50	Madam President! It is worth noting that even the recovery fund was behind the proposals made by Germany and France first, and if you add the ECB to it, then there are reasonably strong players in the background of this issue as well. When we start paying back this debt, different EU taxes are envisaged for own resources. For example, a plastic tax will now come into force, but there will then be a climate tax, a digital tax, a financial transaction tax, etc., and then the GDP-based share will be used to pay the balance. When we joined the EU, Finns have not given any mandate to the EU to start taxing us. We have not given the mandate to a debt union or to a tax union either. I would now like to ask the minister concerned whether the government can promise that the Union will not be given tax rights and that the tax law will continue to apply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u51	Mr President! I have been negotiating the current Treaty and taxation is in national competence, i.e. every Member State, including Finland, [Central : There you go! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u52	Next question, Congressman Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u53	Madam President! Tourism has been a major sufferer in the corona era. Thousands of jobs in this sector have already been lost and the remaining ones are in real danger. Restrictive measures have been regrettable but necessary in assessing the whole, as the government has consistently progressed ahead of health and safety. The autumn and skiing holidays for schoolchildren are divided into three weeks and three regions. In this exceptional situation, it could be justified to change normal practice in terms of health, tourism-related costs and a more even distribution of tourist weeks. I would like to ask the Minister for Education: would it make sense to divide holiday weeks into more weeks, for example six weeks, which would have the support of tourism operators?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u54	Mr President! Thank you to the representative for an interesting proposal. Of course, when we talk about holidays for schoolchildren, we must remember that it affects not only a very large, large number of employees working in the education sector, but also the holidays of all the parents of all the children, so a proposal of this kind must be carefully considered and clarified in cooperation with the stakeholders and interested parties, but certainly such an investigation can be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u55	Next question, Congressman Kyllönen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u56	Madam President! The mining business is back on the table. We have heard of suspicions of money laundering by Trafigura, a minority owner of the state-owned Terrafame mine. After all, the Left Alliance informed the Minister of Economic Affairs about the environmental violations and tax havens of Trafigura three years ago in a written question. According to the Government Programme, the Mining Act will be reformed in such a way as to improve the level of environmental protection and strengthen the possibilities for local influence. However, the Ministry of Employment has now published an entirely inadequate draft law from the working group. I would like to ask Minister Lintilä: how is the preparation of the Mining Act going, and the Government is following its programme to increase the responsibility of the mining sector and reform taxation so that the benefits are not for tax havens but for Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u57	Madam President! Just as the questioner said, the reform of the Mining Act is based on the Government Programme, and its aim is to take better account of the environment, to take account of locality and to create the conditions for action. [MikaNiikkoarvo]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u58	Next question, Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u59	Mr President! The head of the UN refugee organisation, Philip Grandi, together with the head of the IOM, i.e. the International Organisation for Migration, has welcomed the Commission's decision to present a proposal for a common policy on refugees and migration. They hope that this could be an opportunity for Europe to demonstrate that it is possible to respect the fundamental right to asylum, while working together to resolve the practical challenges of identifying and sharing the responsibilities of those who need international protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u60	Madam President! Tack för en valdigt bra fråga. Som ledamot Biaudet rain: vi behöver gemensamma regler i Europa, det har vi inte haft nu.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u62	Mr President! In part, of course, Finland has been, for a long time, an example of good action in favour of the quota refugee system. Could it be thought that Finland could also advocate that this should also be part of this EU package, that the EU countries should also take such a long-term responsibility for quota refugees?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u63	Mr President! I had an opportunity in the European Parliament to follow up on the Commission's previous migration package after the 2015 immigration invasion. The reform of the common asylum policy was then overturned by opposition from the Member States, and that is what is likely to happen now. The main mistake of the Commission's new proposal is that it is not trying to reduce the number of people coming but simply to share the trouble between the Member States. Migration across the Mediterranean is detrimental to Europe and must be restricted. The arrivals will not end by receiving and sharing, but the carrying capacity of European societies will end. Does the government feel that the pressure on migrants from Africa and the Middle East can be managed in a sustainable way by a machine that distributes migrants across the sea to Greece or Italy to the rest of Europe? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u64	Minister Ohio, and I regret that there was one question left unanswered. — Please, both of these questions are for the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u66	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 20/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u67	Mr President! The government's employment objective requires that the participation of groups with a lower than average employment rate, such as those with part-time work capacity, young people, older people and those with immigrant backgrounds, be increased. That is exactly the right objective. The law on rehabilitating work activities has been considered a little unclear. People who do not belong there have been directed to rehabilitative work. Some people in rehabilitative work have not received the social services required by law. The bill does not provide for new tasks for municipalities. The legislative clarifications now being made will take account of the existing principles of social care legislation more clearly than before. The aim is to increase the goalability, social impact and quality of life of rehabilitative work activities. The explanatory memorandum thus clarifies the role of rehabilitative work as social services. The proposal strengthens the customer's right to good social care. The purpose of the legislative clarifications is to ensure that the objectives set for legislation are better achieved. In this report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has stressed the importance of establishing common quality criteria for support, guidance and coaching paths. That is the correct point. I also consider it reasonable that the support and guidance of rehabilitative work activities can be implemented in a variety of ways. Support and guidance could also be obtained from an enterprise-based service provider or included in the entities produced by third-sector operators under contracts concluded. And of course the municipality can also provide support and guidance itself. According to the proposal, rehabilitative work activities must include services promoting the person's life management and working and functional ability. This is very sensible. President! In this respect, the order of march is very clear. According to the law, the possibility of providing a job must always be clarified first. Only if a person is unable to participate in TE services or work due to limitations on his/her ability to work will the plan include rehabilitative work activities. That's good.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u68	Mr President! The amendment of the law is clearly necessary and leads the regulation of rehabilitative work in the right direction. The aim is to increase the goalliness and individuality of rehabilitative work activities. Rehabilitation work activities can be organised for the long-term unemployed in order to promote employment, strengthen life management and functional capacity, and improve inclusion and quality of life according to the individual situation and needs of the customer. The explanatory memorandum clarifies the role of rehabilitative work as social services. By clarifying the content and purpose of rehabilitative work activities and by strengthening the requirement for support and guidance to a person, it can be ensured that the rehabilitative work activities are carried out in accordance with individual needs. The organisation of rehabilitative work must always leave the needs of the unemployed, but unfortunately this is not always the case at present. Mr President! Rehabilitating work activities aim to improve the person’s life management and to create conditions for employment and participation in public employment services. Just as the report states, it is not necessary to direct the unemployed who are able to work or participate in employment services to rehabilitate work. In addition, rehabilitation should not replace paid employment or other employment. Unfortunately, the objectives, content and target group of rehabilitative work activities are not always implemented as intended at present, as municipalities have financial incentives to organise rehabilitative work activities as mass-based activities. As the committee points out, effectiveness should guide the organisation of the service rather than the budgetary impact of rehabilitative work on municipal decisions. These incentive problems should be addressed in the further development of employment services and their financing. There is a risk that the use of rehabilitative work activities will also increase in those target groups where the rehabilitative work activities are not the right service, or that the rehabilitative work activities will be organised as a mass service, ignoring the individual needs of the participant. It is therefore important, at this stage, to clarify to the municipality who, how and with what objectives the rehabilitative work activities are intended to be organised by law. Mr President! According to the definition in the law, rehabilitative work activities include various services that promote the person’s life management and work and functional ability. According to the provision, services may include individual and group activities. This provision also provides for the way in which support, guidance and training are carried out. It can be carried out not only as a personal but also as a group service or as a combination of other services. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities has seen as a problem that the wording of the law also allows the service to be organised in a group form only. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health states in the report that the activation plan sets out in more detail the most appropriate way for each customer and his/her ability to perform the service. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health stresses that the service must be carried out in accordance with the customer's needs and therefore always individually when necessary. The Committee also stresses the importance of taking knowledge and training into account in the implementation of rehabilitative work activities according to individual needs. Mr President! This law puts the regulation of rehabilitative work in the right direction, but expert consultations clearly highlighted the need for more extensive reform and wider development of services for disadvantaged people in the labour market. Among other things, the relationship between rehabilitative work activities and social and vocational rehabilitation and TE services as well as between different benefits should be clarified. In addition, significant investments are needed in mental health and substance abuse services and debt counselling, as problems related to these issues hinder the employment of some. The opinions showed that there have been situations where rehabilitation work has been interrupted when a person moves to rehabilitation allowance without social rehabilitation. The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs also drew attention to this. In its report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore considers it essential that the possibilities of extending the target group of rehabilitative work activities to those receiving rehabilitation allowance are also carefully examined in the context of further preparation. I think that this is an important point, because it cannot be that, when the person receives the rehabilitation allowance, the necessary rehabilitation measures for him or her will cease. Mr President! As rehabilitative work activities are social services in accordance with the Social Welfare Act, a person participating in rehabilitative work must have a designated self-employed person within the meaning of the Social Welfare Act, who is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the social services agreed in the customer activation plan and for assessing the customer’s situation appropriately. It is important that responsibility for the implementation of the activation plan for rehabilitating work activities lies with the municipality’s social action and that the person responsible for assessing the need for services has appropriate social care training. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities criticised the fact that this requirement gives municipalities a new task and increases costs. This is not the case, however, as the law already in force requires a social worker to be involved in the preparation and follow-up of the activation plan and service needs assessment, on the basis of which rehabilitation activities are involved. In my view, this misunderstanding clearly reflects the fact that the purpose of rehabilitative work activities has not been properly understood everywhere and that the role of rehabilitative work activities as part of social services really needs to be clarified. Furthermore, the professional qualifications requirements for employment services under different laws have been considered mixed and the Committee notes that the requirements for professional qualifications for employment services under different laws should be clarified. There is also a need to clarify and guide the quality requirements for rehabilitating work activities. The Committee on Social Affairs and Employment therefore considers it important for the development of rehabilitative work activities and for the same level of service at national level to establish uniform quality criteria for support, guidance and coaching services. However, concerns about the ability of municipalities to finance services, concerns about the state level of compensation for rehabilitative work activities and concerns about the availability of social care professionals are genuine. I would like the government to be able to examine, as far as possible, the level of municipal compensation for rehabilitating work activities, as well as the level of daily allowances paid to participants, because they are seriously lagging behind. Mr President! This is a good proposal, but there is a clear need for further development of the entire legislation on the financing of services and services for those in a weak position on the labour market, and this is also encouraged by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. This bill clarifies in a positive way the purpose, manner of implementation, target group and content of rehabilitative work activities. The goalability and individuality of the activities will be emphasised. Although the law is now moving in the right direction, it is necessary to ensure that rehabilitative work activities are organised at the municipal level
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u69	Mr President! The aim is now to amend the law on rehabilitative work activities and to clarify the regulation on the organisation and production of rehabilitative work activities. The development of rehabilitative work activities has been discussed for a long time, since despite its name it has not necessarily been rehabilitative. Rehabilitative work activities have been directed at persons for whom this mode of activity has not been correct and, on the other hand, those who benefit from it have not been able to access the rehabilitative work activities. The quality of operations has also been very uneven. In addition, municipalities have also used rehabilitative work as a means of saving, as the municipality receives state compensation for organising rehabilitative work from the employment budget, and rehabilitative work also reduces municipal labour market support expenditure. A provision on the definition of the content of rehabilitative work activities is now added to the law, i.e. rehabilitation work must always include the support and guidance needed by the person, which is also included in the activation plan and the cross-sectoral employment plan. In addition, the objective of rehabilitative work activities is recorded in the activation plan. Support, guidance and coaching can be not only personal but also group-based services or services combined with other services. However, I personally stress the importance of a person on my own side, for I have good experiences of this kind of support and assistance based on personal encounters. These measures are designed to increase the goalability of rehabilitative work activities in order to promote employment, as well as their social impact and improvement of inclusion and quality of life according to the individual situation of the customer. The role of rehabilitative work as social services is to be strengthened. President! The committee's report makes the role and objective of rehabilitating work very clear. It states that rehabilitation activities aim to improve the person’s life management and to create conditions for employment and participation in public employment services. Rehabilitative work activities should not be directed towards unemployed people who are able to work or participate in employment services. In addition, rehabilitation should not replace paid employment or other employment. In order for the change to actually take place, careful monitoring of the implementation and impact of the law is necessary. President! I think it is very important that the report has highlighted the need for greater reform and the development of services for the most vulnerable people in the labour market. These necessary changes include: the relationship between work activities and social and vocational rehabilitation and TE services should be clarified, and the same applies to relations between different benefits. In addition, significant investments are needed in mental health and substance abuse services. Debt counselling should also be taken into account in the services of rehabilitative work activities. Further attention has been paid to the incentives of municipalities to provide services in such a way that their effectiveness can be improved instead of the budgetary impact of rehabilitative work on municipal decisions. In addition to these, more attention should be paid to the development of skills and training in the implementation of rehabilitative work activities. President! This is a good change of law and a step in the right direction, but much remains to be developed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u70	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal therefore makes certain changes to the rehabilitation work, and these changes are good and necessary. After all, the aim of rehabilitative work is to improve people's own life management and then to create the conditions for genuine employment and thus to get away with work. This is where the committee says very well that the unemployed who are able to work or participate in employment services should not be directed towards rehabilitative work. In the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I also drew the attention of the Committee to the need for greater reform and the development of services for disadvantaged people in consultation with experts. This is going to be a lot of feedback from people. According to the committee, significant investments are also needed in mental health and substance abuse services. That is why I am surprised that the Marin government is not yet implementing the therapeutic guarantee next year. It would be an important part of this package and would also complement the availability of these people's services. After all, the cost of the therapy guarantee is about 35 million, but its financial revenues are much higher, i.e. it would bring itself back, and it would, above all, be human if this therapy guarantee were to be implemented. That's why I have to ask myself, did the money really run out at the point when the therapeutic guarantee should have been decided at the Marini government budget debate? The Coalition Party will present the implementation of the therapeutic guarantee for next year's budget, and hopefully it will also have an understanding on the left side of the Chamber. Avit has also intervened in rehabilitative work activities several times, in abuse of the type of activity that is carried out through rehabilitating work activities. It is a good thing that this supervision works, and this supervision must be done, and it must also be ensured that the rehabilitation work is not carried out with the kind of work that could be carried out, for example, by these same people as a genuine paid job. It is a misuse of this system, and it is good that you help to control it. It is a question of how we get people to work. I would like to thank the left-wing government for the fact that in the budget debate the government approved the employment model, which was opposed by the left-wing coalition last season, including the SAK, the STTK and also the current government party, namely this active model, which was now decided to implement in the budget debate. After all, the model has now gone through the government of the SDP, the Left Alliance, the Centre, the Greens and the RKP, even though there was a great deal of opposition to it during the last parliamentary term, particularly the Left Alliance. During its opposition period, the Left Alliance was quite firmly opposed to this model of self-decided work which it now decided to implement in the budget debate. Hopefully, it will also help people get to work. That is very far from the same model that fell last season, which is how the active model has been reinstated. Mr President! In fact, you could say that better late than never. Now that the left-wing government's active model number two is implemented, it is likely to improve employment in our country. And, in fact, the estimates are that if there had been no opposition from the opposition in the last period and if the SAK and the other Ay movement had been able to accept it then, we would in fact already have an increase of 10,000 employed people rolling now. But it is said that thanks to the fact that the left-wing union, too, eventually gave way here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u71	Mr President! If we go back to the subject of this paragraph, I have been a Member of Parliament for nine and a half years. For much longer, I have adjusted in one way or another with the problems, abuses and omissions of rehabilitating work activities. During this period, I have followed a number of debates on rehabilitative work activities and its problems — debates in public, debates in this Chamber — and a number of parliamentary activities by various parties, various parliamentarians. There have been legal changes, instructions have been sent from the Ministry, corrections have been made, but problems have not been resolved. Against this history, this bill is certainly welcome but not sufficient. The amendment makes a number of clarifications which do not so much change the status quo but seek to clarify it in such a way as to ensure that the field also complies with the status quo. However, it still leaves a loophole that individual guidance is not required by the organiser of rehabilitative work activities. The article has been formulated in such a way that even if an individual activation plan is drawn up for each person assigned to or persuaded to rehabilitate work activities, he or she does not need to have any personal, individual discussion, guidance, support with a professional. We know that municipalities have a strong financial incentive for group guidance, which will be much cheaper: why take care of rehabilitative work customers one at a time when you can handle 20 with one punch? We also know that the rather gloomy history of rehabilitating work does not support the optimistic assumption that when the committees' reports express the hope that we will now really go according to their individual needs, then this will actually happen on the ground. No previous round has happened — why should it happen now? It is recalled that the target group of rehabilitative work activities is people whose life situation, personal abilities, personal ability are at a level that they are unable to provide any other employment service. For example, they are in such a bad condition that they are unable to work 100% on pay-subsidised jobs in organisations which, however, are a form of employment service in which a relatively large percentage of people with disabilities can participate. So it is about people who, by organizing themselves, need some kind of help to put their lives, their health, their skills in order — strong help. And in this situation, however, we assume that there will be individuals all the way to groups who do not need such individual support, even one discussion session during the whole rehabilitation work. Well, on this basis — although I am delighted to welcome this amendment of the law and I am pleased that it has been achieved, I thank this government for it — it is clear that this saga is not yet finished, that we will return to this matter and that many more tears will be cried before this rehabilitative work has been done on the model that the legal situation will also take place in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u72	Mr President! It is appropriate to clarify the law on rehabilitative work, as it has been considered somewhat unclear at present. Under the current law, people who do not belong there have also been directed to rehabilitative work activities. Rehabilitating work activities are intended only for those who are unable to participate in TE services due to restrictions on their working or functional capacity. Rehabilitating work activities are therefore a secondary service compared to TE services. With reform, this will not change. The explanatory memorandum clarifies the role of rehabilitative work as social services. Mr President! The government's employment objective requires that the participation of groups with a lower than average employment rate should be increased in the current labour market. These groups are hard-to-work, young people, older people, people with immigrant backgrounds and people with part-time work. The following text was also included in the Government Programme: ‘The rehabilitation system is reformed through social rehabilitation, which takes account of the long-term unemployed issue of the individual rehabilitation needs of The draft law before us is in line with the objectives set.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u73	Mr President! As such, it is probably necessary to update the legislation on this rehabilitation work, and this committee's proposal for a decision is therefore unanimous. I suspect that it will be unanimous because at the end of this period the committee will say, and now I quote: ‘The committee will increase the capacity of the concerned municipalities to finance the services, theremaining of the State’s level of compensation for the rehabilitation of work and the availability of socialservice staff. “ This is a very important point in this committee's report because, for example, if you look at the opinion of the City of Tampere — we are talking about one of the largest cities in Finland, which has spent several million of its own money a year on employment — it is there that it is very clear about these problems, how it is possible for municipalities to finance these services, and, above all, about the fact that when you demand that there is a greater need for professional social welfare staff to organise this rehabilitative work and the demands for professional qualifications are raised, this is actually a really difficult task for many municipalities to solve. We all know that there is a crying shortage of social professionals and that they are difficult to recruit. This applies to large municipalities, it concerns small municipalities, it concerns the so-called Growth Finland, the largest growth areas, it also applies to smaller sub-regions, it concerns rural areas. That is why it is quite important that, when we are here in making legislation, in which we oblige municipalities to carry out an important task in themselves, that of rehabilitating work, they should also be given the resources and the guidance of the law to enable them to cope with that task. Unfortunately, I am predicting that there will be problems here in the future, because now, as the committee's report itself says, this criterion is too strict, especially in terms of professional qualifications for staff, even though it does not in itself represent a change, this concern has come here. Even when we know what the financial situation of the municipalities is at the moment, it is indeed a very challenging issue that how, in practice, the municipalities come out of the obligations that are imposed here. And, of course, it would be in the interests of the unemployed in need of services first and foremost for the municipalities to be able to carry out these tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u74	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. In this context, discussion is also allowed on the 8th and 9th issues of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u75	Mr. Speaker! The audit of the Parliament is carried out by three MP auditors and their selected audit firm, currently BDO Oy, as the responsible auditor, JHT Ari Lehto. After the chairman has left Parliament, I shall present the reports as Vice-President. The audit is carried out by the Finnish Parliament and its agencies The Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy and the National Audit Office. The Ombudsman of the Parliament, and The activities of the Human Rights Centre are part of Parliament's accounting unit and audit. The audit has focused on the administration of Parliament, UPI and VTV and on accounting and financial statements for 2019. The administrative audit assessed the legality of management activities and decision-making, in particular from the economic point of view. Key elements were compliance with the central government budget law and regulation, the accounting rules of the Parliament and the financial rules of the agencies. The administrative audit also included monitoring the decisions of the management of the agencies and their implementation, control of compliance with the budget and evaluation of internal control and risk management. As part of the administrative audit, the auditors discussed the progress of IT projects and the evolution of their costs. In addition, auditors commissioned an assessment of Parliament's IT strategy and information security. The administrative audit did not raise any particular comments in the audited sites. The audit of the accounts and accounts assessed the organisation of the accounts of Parliament, UPI and VTV, as well as financial reporting and budgetary monitoring for the accuracy of the accounts and the functioning of internal control. The audit of these accounts, financial statements and annual reports did not raise any particular comments. Mr President! With regard to the economic indicators, we note that the operating expenses of the Parliamentary Office amounted to EUR 54.9 million, which is EUR 3.6 million, or 7 per cent more than in 2018. The biggest single reason for the increase in expenditure was an increase in personnel costs of EUR 1.35 million. Purchases of services also increased by EUR 1.14 million. In addition to the parliamentary election year, the level of expenditure was significantly affected by three one-off expenditure items: Finland's EU Presidency, EUR 1.6 million excluding wages and salaries; spring government negotiations, EUR 0.6 million and employment station reform, beginning in 2019, EUR 0.7 million. Wages and salaries paid for the operating expenses of the Parliamentary Office, together with personnel by-passage expenses, excluding the remuneration of parliamentary assistants and external fees amounted to EUR 30,1 million, which is 2 million, or 7 per cent more than in 2018. The increase in wages and salaries expenditure was particularly affected by increases in employer contributions, increases in wages and salaries in accordance with the contract as of 1 April 2019 and a one-off instalment of 9.2 per cent paid in January. The 30% holiday allowance cut under the Competitiveness Agreement has been implemented between 2017 and 2019. Parliamentary expenditure excluding VAT and Parliament's Ombudsman amounted to EUR 93.8 million, which is EUR 0.9 million, or 1% more than in 2018. Parliamentary expenditure per Finn was approximately EUR 17. The mission of the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy is to create international scientific expertise in its field of research and to provide it both for the needs of domestic political decision-making and public debate and also to support international scientific research and debate. The Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy is a net budgeted accounting unit and is a member of the parliamentary section in the budget. In 2019 the Agency received EUR 3.6 million in funding from the budget in the form of a two-year transfer envelope. In addition, the Agency had EUR 1.3 million of appropriations transferred from previous years. In the reporting year, revenue from sources outside the budget amounted to around EUR 650000. The majority of external funding came from other government agencies and private foundations as project funding. The use of operational expenditure appropriations amounted to EUR 3.4 million. Savings were generated especially in personnel costs. It is noted that UPI was successful in the search for external funding, which in some projects saved budgetary appropriations. The Audit Office is an independent audit and supervisory authority whose role and functions are laid down in the Constitution. The Audit Office inspects the government’s financial management and budgetary compliance and supervises fiscal policy rules. In addition, the National Audit Office acts as the guardian of party and election funding. Last year, the operating costs of the Audit Office amounted to EUR 15.7 million, which is 6.3 per cent more than in the previous year. The majority of the operating expenses were personnel costs, which accounted for just under 80 per cent. Some 13 per cent of purchases of services took place. Mr President! As a conclusion from our audit, we note that the financial statements and operational reports of the Finnish Parliament, the Finnish Institute for Foreign Affairs and the Finnish National Audit Office have been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions and provide correct and adequate information on the results and financial position of their operations in 2019. We also note that the activity reports and the financial statements were incontrovertible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u76	Thank you to the Vice-President of Parliament's auditors, Mr Kankaanniemi, and continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u77	Mr President! As new Vice-President of the auditors, I would like to warmly thank Mr Kankaanniemi for his excellent work and for his careful attention to this important task. We are trying to continue working as high-quality this season as you did in the previous period. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u78	Thank you. I'm so glad to hear this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u79	Mr President! I would like to thank Vice-President Mäkisalo-Roppo and wish him well in the interesting and important work that the auditors are doing. Last season we tried to look figuratively into every room in this house and into every corner to check that there was nothing shady or anything else. We didn't find one. I hope you will not find it either, but I also hope that you will do the same for a wide-ranging review. The actual assessment of the content of the activity is not a matter for auditors as such, but the legality and then interference of its activities, if there are any comments. For example, the activities of the library, the work of the occupational health centre and such units could be interesting to review. Especially now that it's time for this corona, you have a challenging job. It is very different here now than it was during our period, where the inspectors selected in 2015 checked last year. Warm thanks and good luck and success in your work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u80	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u81	Mr President! This report concerns 2019, and the effects of the interest rate situation, for example, are not reflected in any way, but a few words anyway, because this report has something very important to learn for all of us. ‘On the basis of an audit of the The Annual Report of the Board of Directors reports essentially on the dossiers required by the regulations. The Government Programme’s objective is reported comprehensively, but the high number of targets reduces the strategic nature of reporting.” There is a clear contradiction here as to what we expect from the annual report. The annual report should be concise and contain relevant information on the state of public finances and its components. It should also avoid duplication of information. On the other hand, tightness may exclude something essential from the proposal. For example, the state of sustainable development is described from three perspectives, but the Government's own efforts to implement the Sustainability Report are not reported very clearly. And there are a few points that we should really learn from and which I am sure we will look into in more detail in the Audit Committee: ‘On the basis of the audits, the Audit Office shall pay attention Of these, seven accounting units were given a negative legal position. However, with regard to these negative legality rates, it cannot be concluded that the State’s financial management would not meet the legal requirement imposed on it or that the negative positions would be motivated by abuse of state resources. However, a negative statement of legality must always be regarded as a serious matter for the financial management of that agency. Procedures which are not in line with the budget and the main provisions relating to it must always be taken into account." Yesterday we went through the annual report of the National Audit Office in a referral debate and raised concerns in the same direction. In other words, there were no significant shortcomings in the majority of the audits of the state, ministries and non-budgetary funds carried out by the Audit Office, but one in four accounting units received a comment. It is worrying that the same accounting units receive comments each year. It comes to mind that there is something wrong with handling the unit's feedback and learning process. That is what we need to find out more in the Audit Committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u82	Mr President! People often have the impression that Parliament is only a legislator and a budgetary authority, but it also has this very important task: to carry out a comprehensive audit of state functions. We have now had, for a few years now — and yes, it has certainly been since the reform of the Constitution, that is, since the beginning of the millennium — this system that the National Audit Office inspects and there are no more state auditors. I believe that this system is good in itself: professional people, independent officials with official responsibility, carry out this inspection, and then Parliament receives reports, is able to challenge the issues that have arisen, and the Audit Committee is then the key and very important institution for the whole administration. However, the state budget is in the order of EUR 55 to EUR 60 billion and the funds are being used in a huge number of ways. Inspection activities require professionalism, and they must be reliable, and that too must be monitored. Now, recently, these travel costs of the National Audit Office were raised. I'm sure the Audit Committee can ask a few questions about them. We, as auditors, did not get in, but we should check them out in the future. I do not doubt — and I am sure they will be satisfactory — but the inspector must also have an inspection, and indeed, as a whole, this inspection is a central task, as essential as the exercise of the legislative and budgetary authority.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-24-ps-118.u83	Mr President! In fact, I just wanted once again to thank Mr Kankaanniemi in particular for the encouragement I have now received in this task. This audit activity is new to me, and I have indeed noticed, both as an auditor and as Vice-President of the Audit Committee, that it is a very interesting world, and I am very pleased that I have entered that world. I appreciate your long work, Mr Kankaanniemi, and I took and registered some of your tips and tips for myself, because I think they will be very useful to me in the future. - Thank you.
