ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Committee on Culture must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u2	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the Act on Adult Education Benefits and the Student Support Act. The aim of the proposal is to improve the opportunities for employees to study in adult education alongside work. This proposal is based on a unanimous initiative by the social partners. Based on the unanimous initiative of labour market centre organisations, a draft proposal prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has been prepared with the aim of promoting employees' opportunities for continuous learning by creating better opportunities for reconciling work and studies and for bringing new categories of users into adult education, particularly in low-wage sectors, and also to clarify for the applicant the application for adult education and the predictability of support and to streamline the administration of adult education. According to the position of labour market centre organisations based on their labour market expertise, these objectives can be promoted by the means contained in the proposal. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u5	Mr President! Minister, ladies and gentlemen and others present! Adult education allowance was introduced in Finland less than 20 years ago in 2001. This change, now presented by Minister Pekonen, is in fact the largest and, in many respects, the most important change in the history of adult education. Last year 2019, 2,5701 employees or companies received support in Finland, and this was in fact the record of adult education. Around one third of these beneficiaries were young people, between 30 and 34 years of age, around 25%, or one quarter, between 35 and 39 years of age, and older workers are in fact a rather small part of adult education users. In fact, my question to Minister Pekonen would be how, in fact, we could get middle-aged men, for example, to use this more. It is the message that often comes, and especially during this change in working life, this could often be the solution for finding new skills, updating skills, etc. More measures of this kind might be needed in the future. Thus, there will be changes to adult education support which will improve the opportunities for workers to study in adult education alongside work. It's extremely good. In that presentation, Mr Pekonen gave a broad picture of this practice and of the changes that this entails, and there is not much to say about them, they will certainly take this better in the big picture. I believe that we all agree that the coordination of studies and work and the updating of skills are worthwhile. It is also positive that the income register data will be re-used here. The Incomes Register has often been criticised in this Chamber since its introduction, but these positive solutions are gradually starting to emerge, and here is one of that kind. But I cannot help but touch on the fact that during the last parliamentary term, the Greens in this Chamber spoke very loudly about cuts in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u12	Since there seems to be a need for a debattling, a short debatt will be started.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u13	Mr President! No government just makes good or just bad proposals and decisions. All governments do good and bad. On the average, this government makes very much better decisions than the previous government. [Very: Very bad!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u19	Mr President! Without taking a position on what kind of cuts have been made during any government period, I would like to clarify this law on adult education benefits, that this is of course a small cut for all those who have been in support of it at the moment, but at the same time, this law will involve a large number of new people, for whom this is a clear personal improvement. But it is clear that once this entity has been implemented cost-neutrally and on the basis of the consensus reached by the social partners without additional money, yes, for some, this will be a small cut but at the same time a big improvement for countless people compared to the current situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u20	Mr President! I myself have once studied in adult education, and I know that it does stretch euros and pennies. It is reported that ‘The Ministry of Finance is critical to the proposal. The Ministry points out that the proposal would reduce the amount of full adult education in all income categories. According to the proposal, the reduction in the benefit would be at its lowest income brackets. It may be that it would be particularly important for these low incomes to have a reduction in the benefit at the time of the training decision.’ I would like to ask you, Minister: when we have a proposal on the size of the carer, the size of the staff here in Parliament, we urgently need more local carers and, in particular, nurses. How do you ensure that a nearby nurse can go and study herself as a nurse, that it is financially worthwhile for her? Because in the end, the nurse will not win much in the future. How do you ensure that this adult education allowance is so encouraging that a local nurse with her small income will also be able to go to school?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u21	Mr President! The aim of the proposal is important: to encourage people to maintain skills alongside work and to encourage people in low-wage sectors, low-skilled people to be trained.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u24	Mr President! What is essential in this proposal is that this is built in such a way as to encourage part-time work to take place as well,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u29	Then Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, and then the Minister, and then we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u30	Mr President! As a student of adult education, I also know how important this is. The aim of this proposal is to create better opportunities for reconciling work and studies and for bringing new categories of users into adult education — and especially in the low-wage sectors, because we know that adult education aid, like adult education in general, is more targeted at highly educated people at the moment, and that is what we need to change. This proposal increases and expands the use of adult education, and this is an important point for society as well. This proposal is good and necessary, but of course it is not enough for future training needs. That is why it is important that the government has also launched a wide-ranging work on the reform of continuous learning, and I do expect a great deal of this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u31	Secretary Bakonen, one minute from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u32	Mr President! Important points arose in Mr Heinonen's speech. This proposal has an important role to play right now in getting new users into adult education, especially from older and less educated people, and it has now been estimated that studying alongside work would be more attractive, and that is what we now want to invest in with this presentation. But here we are not now doing any surgery on adult education support. This support will be re-allocated in such a way that this adjusted support improves in many cases, and the average support will be slightly cut, because in the future, as Mr Filatov well described, the use of the support will also increase. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u35	And then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u36	Mr President! I am surprised at this argument about this money when it comes to continuous learning, new thinking, when we need to change our whole thinking a little in the direction that we learn all our lives, we need to complete our skills throughout our lives. And here the challenge is for us to get people who are not going to train otherwise. In that regard, Mr Heinonen was quite right that it was very important to involve men.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u44	Mr President! The world is developing at a fast pace. The pace of development also seems to be accelerating. Today it is almost impossible to obtain training that is sufficient for the entire career. There are things we all need more training for in our careers. Continuous learning has become more and more evident. Some of the new skills and knowledge can be absorbed quickly, while others require longer periods of attention. We cannot automatically assume that, in addition to daytime work, people have resources for further training. The transfer of resources from work to training, where appropriate, must be made possible. Adult education support is part of the solution. Adult education and training aid may be granted to people already in employment for a longer period of time. Its aim is to support self-study and to promote training. Adult education support helps to stay at work in the middle of the current job-breaking process. President! According to statistics, higher-skilled and better-paid workers have used adult education support more frequently. The Government’s objective is that low-skilled and low-paid workers should also be able to participate better during their working lives in studies and increase their skills in the course of their work. The Government proposal now under discussion aims to facilitate the reconciliation of studies and work with adult education. In the Government's proposal, it is proposed to amend the calculation formulas for the determination of adult education in accordance with a unanimous initiative from the labour market central organisations. Mr President! It is easy to support such proposals, which are cost-neutral, promote employment, improve the skills of workers and promote continuous learning. The changes to the rules on mediation will increase the support for adult education, particularly for beneficiaries who do not significantly reduce their work. In line with the objectives of the reform, this will encourage better integration of part-time work and studies. In the background, therefore, the aim is to improve opportunities for continuous learning for working-age people by creating better opportunities for reconciling work and studies. At the same time, this will also reduce the administrative burden on adult education. The demand for adjusted support has been growing for a long time, especially with higher education, and the structure of the support has not encouraged part-time learning in any way. President! If we get part-time by supporting groups that are now under-represented in education and training, we will undoubtedly gain more knowledge and more impact on the positive development of the employment rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u45	Mr President! Minister and representatives! Thus, the adult education allowance paid by the Employment Fund may be granted to an employee who is on unpaid leave from work. This benefit is granted to more than 25000 employees per year and the annual cost of the benefit is approximately EUR 200 million. The purpose of the Government proposal is to amend the Act on Adult Education Benefits and the Student Support Act, which is based both on the unanimous initiative of labour market centre organisations and on the Government Programme of Marin. The proposal is based on the reform of adult education and training so that coordination between work and study is supported. So, what is the aim of this reform? The aim is to improve the ability of employees to study in adult education alongside work and to promote the opportunities for continuous learning by creating better opportunities for reconciling work and studies and for bringing new categories of users into adult education, especially in low-wage sectors. The reform also aims to clarify the application for and predictability of support and to reduce the administrative burden on adult education and training. Mr President! Minister Pekonen well described a number of criteria and other changes to adult education support. However, I would like to underline a few more points: During the period of support, the income earned by the person would still be taken into account with adult education in the month in which the aid is paid. However, it should be noted that wage and salary income during the month would reduce the number of adult education less than the current situation. The aim of the change is to be cost-neutral, which means that the average adult education allowance would also decrease by approximately EUR 78 per month compared to the current level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u48	Mr President! The Government proposal under discussion is also partly related to the promotion of continuous learning, the work of which has been carried out in the Working Group on Continuous Learning. As regards the opinions on the proposal, it is somewhat worrying that the Ministry of Finance is critical of the proposals and points out that the proposal would reduce the number of full adult education in all income categories. Also, according to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the proposed regulation would be contrary to attracting those working specifically in the low-wage sectors to coordinate work and study. However, I think that a comprehensive examination of the aid system is sensible and life-long learning is very much to be welcomed. It is therefore a good thing that the implementation and impact of the law on adult education support will be monitored from the entry into force of the law. The proposed changes would significantly reform the procedures for applying for and granting adult education within a relatively short timeframe. On the other hand, there is no clear evidence in the impact of the proposal that it will solve the problems of the current model. Reasonable changes in the amount of aid may not be sufficient to prevent the increase in total expenditure on adult education and thus place the entire aid scheme on an unsustainable basis. In addition, the fall in full education support in all income categories may strike at the willingness of people working in low-wage sectors in particular. Congressman Kivisaari, is this still an operation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u49	Mr President! The aim of the government proposal is to promote training while working, but it should also be asked how employers will react to your part-time day. They should then hire a part-time employee, but if it requires a skilled person, it may be difficult to get a part-time job on a conveyor belt or workshop when this current worker remains only part-time. If he remained a full - time worker, then it would be easy to get a full - time worker. Yeah, I'm sure it is. And how does the employer view that you only want to be part of it, it does complicate the doing of its employer a lot when he then has to run it in one job. It is thought that if you want to develop your studies along with your work, you can often find a place far away. My wife, for example, is now in a full-time adult education centre, since she is enrolled at the University of Vaasa and lives in Lahti, has to stay there for days at all times, so it is not easy to do the job. That training place is no longer close. However, this now encourages it to do the work and does not encourage full - time learning. There will be a lot of problems in the future. It is thought that work should be carried out alongside work — often mentally and physically hard work today, not necessarily enough strength to study at the same time. I should give you a chance... or there's a chance you're going to study full-time, but now you're being punished and you want to do two jobs at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u50	Mr President! The change in working life requires continuous and lifelong learning. There are not many jobs that you might think you can do without continuing to study new things. A wide range of forms of study and learning are needed to support working life. Skills can be maintained and renewed through training in the workplace, but in addition, studies outside the workplace are needed, either full-time but increasingly in addition to work. The purpose of this bill is to improve the reconciliation of work and study by reforming adult education support. Adult education allowance is a benefit paid by the Employment Fund to an employee who is on unpaid leave from work. Adult education allowance is used by some 25,000 people annually. It is hoped that adult education and training support will help to remain employed in the current ongoing change in work. The aim is to create better opportunities for reconciling work and studies and bringing new categories of users into adult education, especially in the low-wage sector. At the moment, adult education support, like all adult education, is more targeted at highly educated people, i.e. those who already have a high level of education. They are also the most interested in continuing education. And those with little education are the least likely to use the opportunities for further training. In addition, this proposal aims to clarify the application for adult education and the predictability of support and to reduce the administrative burden on adult education. As has been said here, this proposal is cost-neutral, which is why the proposal also proposes changes which also reduce the benefit of some groups compared to the current situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u53	And at this point, the time for the referral debate is over. I will give Mr Pekonen one more minute to reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u54	Mr President! I'm trying to survive in this minute. I now feel that in this Chamber we have a slightly different idea of what is an operation. In my opinion, the cut is when to cut out the euro completely from the budget book, but I do not think it is a cut, that the amount set aside in the budget book will remain the same and will be distributed differently between students in the future. We actually have a proposal in this debate which aims specifically to improve the opportunities for workers to study in adult education alongside work. In this debate, Mr Juvonen was concerned about the possibility for local nurses and nurses to be trained, and with this proposal we want to ensure that they also study in addition to their work. We are all in favour of raising the level of education, but increasing the supply of education and the reform of continuous learning are also key to this success. In addition to adult education support, there will continue to be, for example, self-employed studies on unemployment benefit, labour market training and student support, and all these reforms relating to studies will have to be examined as a whole in the context of the social security reform, when we are parliamentaryly embarking on this social security reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u55	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u56	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u57	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Act on Adult Education Benefits and the Student Support Act. The aim is to promote the opportunity of employees to work simultaneously and to study with adult education centres. The calculation formula for the determination of adult education would also be modified. If a person had wages or other earnings, they would affect the amount of the subsidy during the month in which they were paid. Mr President! All measures that promote Finnish knowledge and lifelong learning are to be welcomed, especially now that working life is changing faster. It is good if adult education support is better adapted to different situations and needs in the future. Adult education aid should be considered a viable investment rather than a mere cost item. Further efforts should also be considered. In a well-targeted way, these could ease the problem of matching the labour market and thus have long-term effects on employment rates. The requirement of cost neutrality in the government proposal should be reconsidered. Zero-sum game and tinkering rarely achieve big results, which are now urgently needed in Finland. The fall in full education support in all income categories may particularly affect the willingness of people working in low-wage sectors to study. In the low-wage sectors, full training aid is already so low that it is difficult to get along. Furthermore, the model proposed by the government does not provide sufficient incentives for those with lower education or those working in low-wage sectors to coordinate their studies and work. In these groups, however, the need and effectiveness would be greatest. Reconciliation of support in the Government proposal would only be improved by those who have higher than average earnings and have significant earnings during the months. Mr President! Now the government is promoting the accumulation of education for those already better educated. In the case of low conciliation revenue, the question arises of creating an incentive trap. From the employer's point of view, it would be advisable to agree with the employee that some shifts should also be made during study leave. It may now be that, from an employee’s point of view, this would no longer be economically viable. Those receiving adult education support stress the importance of the predictability of the system. It is difficult to make a decision to start studying if the economic future is obscure. In implementing the reform, the process of processing applications must also be streamlined. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u58	Mr President! First of all, I very much appreciate that Mr Pekonen had the opportunity to stay here and hear this final part of the debate. — — — — I think that this reform of adult education is very necessary, but there are a few things that I hope will be considered at committee stage, and perhaps also in this cutting debate which has taken place here: I wondered if I could understand from the point of view of the state finances that we were aiming for cost neutrality in this reform. But this means that this EUR 78 cut will come to those who have been specifically left behind for this full-time study, and then to those who are able to combine work and study, i.e. those who have a wage income in the background, these cuts will not apply. In that sense, I think that this emphasis is now actually good, because it is probably much more difficult to throw yourself into that uncertain future and rely solely on adult education than you do, however, have another leg there in working life and you get a regular wage income there and if you still reach an agreement with the employer on how to combine this work and study. In fact, on this point, the Committee will probably hear from entrepreneurs how better to apply this work and study. This is a huge challenge for the future at the moment that, when there are people in Finland who are working and who should be able to raise the level of education, the way in which it can be done and how to keep up with the development of their own sector, so to speak. The second aspect of this bill is largely related to this Incomes Register and also to the calculation system which is linked to this monthly monitoring of income in the Incomes Register. In fact, my second question to the Minister is about how well this system is now being opened up to those people who are wondering whether it would be possible to go to college and whether the income will be sufficient and how this will be calculated. I am now quoting a newspaper article about how this calculation aparate is about as it works in practice. I have to say that this did not open up to me at least once: ‘If the income distribution is above the normal wage, the support will be 0.5 months. If the income is less than half of the normal salary, the subsidy will take one month. The spending of support months is tied together with credit requirements. If half of the support months are spent, the student must complete at least two credits. Otherwise, four credits are required for the student.” When you read about this, you might wonder for a while if I now had the money to spend on that adult education or not. Here I would have asked the Minister whether there is enough guidance on this new calculation system. When you still apply for this money afterwards, people may then be surprised that their own calculations may not have kept itchy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u59	Mr President! There is a lot of good in this proposal on adult education, which is an important subject but also raises concerns and questions. As Mr Heinonen has already said in his speech, this actually cuts the benefits from this item but, on the other hand, widens the scope for accepting this support, which, of course, is absolutely to be welcomed. However, concerns are expressed by many parties, such as Finnish Entrepreneurs, Arene ry and so on. Finnish Entrepreneurs report that they are particularly concerned that moderate changes in the amount of support are not sufficient to prevent the growth of total expenditure on adult education and thus place the entire support system on an unsustainable basis. We need to take this concern seriously. This is why entrepreneurs have suggested that the amounts of support for adult education should be checked further. In addition, the amounts of aid should be moderated in a more progressive manner, i.e. that the decrease is relatively much higher at the top and middle of the income distribution than at the bottom of the distribution. This would be in line with the reform's objectives of increasing the use of aid for the low-skilled and paid, as Mr Pekkonen also called for in his speech. The Rector Council of Universities of Applied Sciences, Arene ry, also points out that the criteria for granting adult education allowance are not in line with the progress of studies required in the university funding model. As a condition for granting adult education allowance, students are required to have four or two study and competence points per month of support, depending on the loss of earnings caused by the leave. This requirement would not now correspond to the speed required for higher education institutions to complete their degrees. According to the new funding model for universities of applied sciences, which will come into force from the beginning of 21, the funding for the completion of the degree will be reduced if the student does not graduate within the deadline. Furthermore, Mr President, the Helsinki School of Business, in its opinion, draws attention to the fact that it is not possible to grant adult education support to a person with a foreign degree in the current and new legal version of adult education aid, unless the studies are part of a Finnish university degree. In today's global world, this is a major flaw that needs to be changed. Even now, nearly ten thousand Finns already complete a foreign degree in such a way that the degree is obtained entirely from a foreign university and is not part of a Finnish degree. I hope that these concerns and comments will now be taken into account at the committee stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u60	Mr President! This bill proposes to amend the Act on Adult Education Benefits and the Student Support Act. The government says that it has made an assessment of the impact of the proposal. I am just asking how SMEs have been consulted in this process. In an earlier debate today, as I recall in paragraph 5, when dealing with matters covered by the Working Time Act, Kontula of the Left Alliance said — when I said the same thing, that the opinion of Finnish Entrepreneurs has not been taken into account — that the criticism was so mild that we should not lose sleep now. Mr President! It is not a question of how well we sleep, but when we make legislation about working life and entrepreneurs, it is also worth worrying about how entrepreneurs are doing and what their sleep is about. The Government says that it has carried out an assessment of the impact of the proposal, but as far as the impact assessment is concerned, there are only two lines of text in the text. I quote: ‘The aim of the presentation is to promote the availability of a legitimate income This is good, but Finnish Entrepreneurs is one of the organisations that has given their opinion. Finnish Entrepreneurs consider, among other things, that it is not proposed that an entrepreneur should be subject to the 50% rule on the passing of a month of support in the event of a loss of earnings of up to 50 per cent. According to Finnish Entrepreneurs, this puts employees and entrepreneurs in a completely different position. Entrepreneurs must also be able to reconcile work and studies with adult education. In addition, Finnish Entrepreneurs suggest that an unemployed employee or entrepreneur should also be able to receive adult education support under the same conditions as it is currently granted to an employed person. This would in practice mean that the conditions of employment or entrepreneurship in force and of study leave would be waived. In addition, Finnish Entrepreneurs consider it a particular shortcoming that the proposal does not take a position on how the awareness of adult education in its current user groups, under-represented employees and entrepreneurs, should be strengthened. Entrepreneurs also criticise the fact that participation in the preparation of the reform of adult education benefits has only been made possible for organisations representing organised workers and employers in the labour market, and that such organisations are also represented in the management of the Employment Fund. Mr President! I repeat what I said in the previous debate: the majority of employers' companies are not part of employers' associations. Of the approximately 90,000 employers' enterprises in Finland, only slightly over 20 per cent belong to the Employers' Federation, but Finland's SMEs, i.e. companies outside employers' unions, still employ 400,000 employees and continuously generate new growth and new jobs. In connection with the proceedings of this law, the Board of Directors once again states that the opinion of Finnish Entrepreneurs does not justify changing the proposal. I ask the Minister: Why is the Finnish Government almost always so arrogant about the statements made by Finnish Entrepreneurs? Why does the government once again put SMEs in a position of inequality?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u61	Mr President! Spontaneous speech. — Mr Östman gave an excellent speech. In Finland we have roughly 280,000 companies and, according to my memory, a couple of hundred thousand self-employed
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u62	Secretary Bakonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u63	President! First of all, I must say to Parliament that I think we have had a very valuable and fruitful debate on this support for adult education and on the reform we are doing. I am glad that this has given rise to so many debates and various comments. President! I'll start at the end. Representatives Östman and Kiuru were concerned that the government did not hear the entrepreneurs. I don't agree with you. Yes, we hear entrepreneurs and we have also read the statements of Entrepreneurs on this reform of adult education. Adult education aid is paid by the Employment Fund, so I also think it is quite natural that at this stage this goes to the employee side. But it is quite clear that the opportunities for entrepreneurs to study should be looked at in particular in this reform of social security, which we will now be able to do parliamentaryly in the near future, and then we will be able to pay particular attention to this important issue which you raised here. Representative Lundén was concerned about the incentive traps. The intention is also to dismantle these incentives traps in the same committee work on social security reform, and I personally believe that this is very necessary. Mrs Essayah, the purpose of this proposal is therefore precisely to improve the opportunities for workers to study in adult education. But when it comes to that calculation system, which you read in this Chamber, a quote, it did sound very complicated. Yes, I think it is necessary to clarify the guidelines and to make them clear so that everyone understands what this is all about and what support is being sought. And especially since this is one of the key objectives of the reform of social security, to simplify and harmonise the rules, there is also room for this. In fact, I would like to say to Mrs Wallinheim that this is not the time to cut — not to cut any money from that item, but to re-allocation. And, in fact, the state is currently not funding this adult education aid at all, but it is fully funded from the Employment Fund. That is why it has been important that this has been done in cooperation with the social partners. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u64	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u65	Mr President! The reform of the functioning of the European financial and insurance supervisory authorities has been ongoing in the EU since 2017 and has been accompanied by the adoption by the European Parliament and the Council at the end of December 2019 of, inter alia, the Solvency II Directive. One of the main aims of the proposal is to implement the provisions of the amending directive in the Insurance Companies Act. As a result of the amending Directive, it is proposed that the Financial Supervisory Authority should be subject to specific reporting obligations vis-à-vis the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the supervisors of other Member States in certain cross-border situations. The general reporting and cooperation obligations of the Financial Supervisory Authority have been extensive under the existing Financial Supervisory Authority Act. At the legislative level, more specific provisions are now proposed in line with the amending directive. As a result of the amending Directive, the Financial Supervisory Authority may agree with supervisors of other Member States to set up and participate in a so-called collaborative forum if it is established by the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority or another national supervisor. This is a rather rare form of cooperation. At the same time, a number of other technical clarifications are proposed to the Insurance Act. Otherwise, the second main purpose of the proposal is to implement the amended provisions of the Directive on the provision of insurance by the Act on the provision of insurance. It is proposed to revise the minimum amount of liability insurance for insurance brokers with an inflation adjustment so that the requirements of national legislation are in line with EU rules.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u66	Mr President! This is largely a very technical issue, and it is precisely this application of Solvency II and implementation of Finnish legislation. But here attention was drawn to this complementing of the eligibility criteria for actuarials in Finnish legislation to the level of European development. I would have asked when there has been a public debate as to whether the qualifications of the CEO of a Finnish insurance company are good enough and that is his actuarial background: So do we in Finland also have the qualifications of these executives laid down by law, or is it just that the insurance supervisory authority draws attention to the fact that there may not be enough of a certain type of training or a certain type of work experience in the background of a person? What has been the basis of this public view that a person’s appointment could not be carried out but had to undergo some type of continuing education course? Now I see that these actuarials are the ones that are being looked at and imposed on them, which seems quite reasonable, because they are the ones who are really responsible for the fact that the insurance companies have good enough reinsurance values and that the insurance company always has the economy in order. Is it really the case that there are also such specific requirements for executive directors?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u67	Mr President! Now I have to confess that the representative Mrs Essayah's question is very detailed and I cannot answer it directly, but I will look into it and return to this question by the representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u68	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 1/2020 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u69	Mr President! The draft law restores some of the employer's reporting obligations in 2017 to increase the predictability of labour market policies. Due to the nature of the law, the committee's opinion is brief because the impact of the amendment is relatively limited and is already well known on the basis of the situation before 17 C.E. For this reason, the committee proposes the adoption of the draft law without amendment, while pointing out that long-term business activity requires a stable legal environment, and the legislator should therefore avoid very frequent changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u70	Mr President! A total of 11 opinions have been received by the Board of Directors on this proposal and a large number of the respondents have not had any comments on the proposal. I noticed that the opinion of Finnish Entrepreneurs highlighted the need for consistency in the development of legislation and that it should always be possible to set out clear and particularly weighty criteria for the changes to be presented. However, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy considers that ‘therepair of the provisions proposed in the proposal for a Central Labour Market Organisations’, as well asthe need Mr President! The majority of employers’ companies are not members of employers’ associations. Of the approximately 90,000 employers’ enterprises in Finland, only slightly over 20 per cent belong to employers’ associations. For these SMEs, the issue of working life is absolutely central. Small and medium-sized enterprises in Finland, which are excluded from employers' associations, employ some 400,000 employees. They are constantly generating new growth and new jobs. This is why I would have preferred it if the government had also taken more account of feedback from Finnish Entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u71	Mr President! Very often, the labour market, including Finnish Entrepreneurs, does not give such unanimous opinion as has been received in connection with this proposal. Even the entrepreneurs, even though they were clammy about it, were not very strongly opposed at the moment. It is true that it is good to always be justified to change the bill, but important and weighty reasons must be more significant and more powerful when it comes to big change. Now that we are dealing with a very small and rarely actualising employers' obligation, which cannot be considered to be a significant disadvantage, significant, major consequences for anyone and yet which can also be seen as benefiting from their non-organised companies — it is in the interest of all recruiters that the TE Office is able to prepare for future unemployed people by seeking for them possible further routes at a faster pace than before — I do not see that there is much reason to lose this night's sleep here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u72	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Defence on PuVM 1/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u73	Mr President! Indeed, the Government's proposal concerns a cooperation agreement in the field of armaments and geographically the Nordic countries. This is a problem-free matter and the committee was unanimous. For ourselves, this is so close and important that the defence report was made during the last parliamentary term and I was working as an alternate. It was stated in the Defence Report that material cooperation between the Nordic countries is important and needs to be deepened. The second is the European Union and the third is NATO. At the Committee on Finance's Administrative and Security Section, where I was a member of the last parliamentary term, we also drew attention to this issue, particularly from the point of view that procurement could be made jointly between the Nordic countries. The agreement will contribute to security of supply in the defence sector. It is ideal for Nordic defence cooperation and its promotion, and it increases the possibilities for cooperation in the field of defence materials. What is still worth paying attention to — and I do not think this report has it, but at least the Administrative and Security Section drew attention to it — is that larger joint acquisitions, for example in the case of ammunition, offer the possibility of cost savings, i.e. more goods with the same money or less money with the same amount of goods.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u74	Mr President! I am part of that monitoring group on foreign and security and defence policy reports, and indeed this Nordic cooperation there will also arise, especially if we consider these material procurements, cooperation there, there will certainly be development. In terms of security of supply, this issue is important and, as Mr Kiuru said earlier, joint procurement can certainly be carried out in certain material procurements. However, we have an example in the past that such a joint purchasing intention can become very complicated. I recall these helicopter acquisitions, which, after all, had a wide range of views on what the country wanted and what type of helicopters were wanted and what everyone would have liked to include. So, after all, it may prove quite impossible to carry forward such specific country-specific hopes through joint procurement, and perhaps that type of procurement will no longer achieve those cost benefits. But there must be a lot of such so-called bulk goods, which can be done at a lower cost, as such joint procurements are prepared in good time and together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u75	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u76	Honorable Speaker! This government proposal therefore proposes a new provision on the right of access to the evaluation centre. The proposal therefore provides that the evaluation centre is entitled to receive adequate information from the persons subject to its assessment in order to carry out the statutory assessment task. After all, the Centre produces important evaluation-based information for decision-making in education policy and the development of early childhood education and training. One of the central objectives of the evaluations carried out by the Centre is to contribute to the realisation of equality, equality and the best interests of the child. It is therefore important that the education arrangements and learning outcomes of pupils in need of support, such as disabled children and young people, can be properly evaluated. President! However, it is clear that when considering a statutory assessment task, it must always be assessed whether the processing of sensitive data is sufficiently burdensome and whether the processing of data is proportionate to the individual’s rights. Such a precise provision, to which the Committee on Education and the Media also expressed its opinion, will give the data supplier a better opportunity to assess the request on the basis of legal conditions. President! The explanatory memorandum of the Government’s proposal has therefore stated in several paragraphs that the right conferred on the Evaluation Centre does not allow access to information on the underlying medical assessments or psychological assessments, documents of health care professionals or social welfare professionals, or other documents of student care services. President! I therefore believe that this bill seeks to clarify and clarify the rights of information which serve a good understanding of the educational and educational world. In this respect, this is an excellent bill and a very honourable one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u77	Mr President! I have no particular comment on this amendment of the National Education Evaluation Centre Act, but I will return to what I raised in the referral debate on this issue. That's when I remembered that when this Karvi was founded, it was placed in Jyväskylä, Finland's Athens, where civilization has left the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u78	Mr President! I think I'm the only one in this room who's a member of the Civilization Committee and...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u81	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented on the 9th of the order of business. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 1/2020, the Protocol amending the Agreement will be decided at the sole reading and then at the second reading on the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u82	Mr President! With regard to this and the following point, it was stated in the Section for Taxation of the Committee on Finance that they are, in themselves, non-controversial matters and should be updated in the manner in which those contractual texts of the agreement are. As such, there are no differences, but from time to time these tax treaties must also be updated in their text.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u83	The 10th item in the order of business is presented in part to the only, partly to the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance, on VaVM 2/2020 vp, it will be decided on the basis of a single reading on the termination of contracts and then on the second reading on the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-03-ps-16.u84	Mr President! As I said earlier, this proposal was also adopted unanimously by the Committee on Finance in the tax section. And that may draw attention to the fact that these are agreements to be terminated for small, so-called island states, because these more comprehensive OECD tax treaties are more effective in this situation and that is why these changes are being made.
