ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Administrative Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u2	Mr President, värderade talman! According to the Prisoner’s Act, the purpose of executing imprisonment is to increase the prison’s capacity for a crime-free lifestyle by promoting the life management and placement of the prisoner in society, and to prevent the committing of crimes during the punishment period. The aim of the proposal is to clarify the division of tasks between the Criminal Sanctions Agency and the pre-trial investigation authorities and to improve the exchange of information and cooperation between the authorities in order to effectively prevent incarcerated crime. In addition, the aim is to clarify the provisions on prison security. The proposal has been prepared in a working group set up by the Ministry of Justice, which has been represented, among other things, by the Ministry of the Interior, the Police Department and the Central Criminal Police.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u3	Mr President! Thank you, Minister of Justice, for this excellent presentation. In fact, last season we had a problem with Justice Minister Häkkänen that Rise suddenly changed its practices so that it no longer gave information to the police. The law didn't change, but Rise's policy changed. Even then, it began to wonder what the hell has happened until, fortunately, Rise changed his policy back. It is now good that we have brought clear clarifications and changes to the law as to what should be done. It is just a fact that today the various authorities have to cooperate, and cooperation is an exchange of information. Fortunately, this has moved on to thinking more about matters from the point of view of society than just an individual. In the past, the individual was decisive: no information was allowed to be disclosed to another authority, although both were confidential. It's for the best of society. That's how it's supposed to be. Dr. Hannu Lauerman, who may know the most about these dangerous offenders in Finland, believes that we have half a dozen offenders in prisons who may never be released. That was more than a decade ago when we were counting these numbers, and we got a little bigger. Either way, we have dangerous offenders in prisons. It is not crucial whether they are now half or twenty or something in between, but, for their part in particular, information must move seamlessly between the various authorities. However, when one day the moment comes that such a offender must be released, whether we like it or not, then the authorities here on the civilian side must have information about how to prevent a repeat crime that may at worst be manifested as a homicide. Perhaps a little incorrectly, our representative Antti Häkkänen's statements on this life sentence were interpreted as automatically an eternal life sentence. I would now like to put the question to the Minister of Justice: Norway, for example, has a life sentence, so that after some 20 years, the court will always consider, every one or two years, whether such a dangerous prisoner can be released. This is a practice that goes just as far as human rights conventions are concerned, and I understand that is what Antti Häkkänen meant. Would we be able to reflect — a little in connection with the same exchange of information — on the fact that we too might be able to keep these few dangerous people in prison for a little longer? Just for the safety of everyone else — for the safety of all of us. And the exchange of information here too is essential.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u4	Mr President! Of course, it is important for the prisoner's ability to be released and to adapt after imprisonment to freedom to support and develop systems to keep those who can count on freedom there in the future. Thank you to Mr Henriksson for his excellent presentation and also to Mr Tolvanen, who spoke earlier, for highlighting cooperation and exchange of information. I myself had also thought that I would point out that we also have, Minister of Justice, people whose place is not to live among other people, so to speak, in freedom. After all, over the last few years we have expanded these risk assessments and are being carried out on an increasing number of prisoners, but one problem is that when experts say that the person in question is still a danger to others, it is not binding on the Helsinki Court of Appeal, but that the Helsinki Court of Appeal can take a different decision from the people who have worked with the prisoner in question and have carried out the risk assessment, in a way ignoring the professional opinion which states that this person should not be released. Would you be prepared to consider that these risk assessments are binding and firm and that they cannot be passed over and counted against these dangerous persons to commit further crimes? We have far too many cases in everyday life, Minister, in which a person has been released against the risk assessment and in a few moments there will be either a new sexual offence or a violent crime or even a murder, and you can of course say that this system does not work. Mr President! This issue of life imprisonment, to which Mr Tolvanen also referred, was raised by the Minister before you, the former Minister of Justice, Mr Häkkänen. I myself had also brought up this model of Norway, which means that life imprisonment will be at its minimum for 21 years, and after that, it can be continued by a court order, I understand, in five years' pieces. Would this not be a very good system for us? I think we should also consider the situation in Finland in such a way that we have up-to-date legislation – for example, for a massacre in Norway – that we will not be looking at the situation when something serious and shocking has happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u5	Mr President! The government's proposal for legislation to improve the prevention of incarceration and the maintenance of institutional security is necessary and justified. There is also a commentary on this, most of which is positive about this change. With regard to access to information, it is absolutely necessary to improve the exchange of information with the Criminal Sanctions Agency and the police, where appropriate Customs and the Border Guard. The legislation in force is not sufficient. It must be possible to effectively tackle criminal and prison security activities by preventing such activities in prison and by bringing these cases to the attention of the police, if necessary. This bill also contains matters relating to camera surveillance, and I personally see that the important thing is also to improve the safety of other prisoners — that, when we look at the rights of the individual, we must also remember carefully what the rights of other people, the right to security, are. Similarly, there is currently no provision for monitoring the use of payment cards and this requires more precise regulation. Control of payment card accounts is necessary, for example, to prevent drug trafficking and pressure on other prisoners not to be used for criminal activities. This proposal is necessary. The world around us has changed, and the environment in which the prison operates has changed as a result of the various challenges that have arisen in society, and our legislation must also stay on track. I would also like to highlight what Mr Tolvanen and Mr Heinonen have said in relation to the security of society and how our prisoners will also be brought back into so-called social capacity and adapt to society. Of course, these dangerous prisoners, but also the sexual offenders, will play an important role in this, so that they will not renew their crimes in the future. I have previously asked the Minister for Justice a written question on chemical castration in connection with sexual offenders: Is this any way forward? Could chemical castration for sexual offenders be considered as one possible way?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u6	Mr President! The central point of this proposal is, of course, to improve cooperation and exchange of information between the authorities and, as has been well demonstrated in previous speeches, above all to reduce and prevent crime in that prison environment. One point was made here, which the Minister also mentioned: this particular situation of payment cards and their monitoring and preservation — in what way they can prevent crime during prison time, and how information should also be obtained from these payment institutions. Have we at some point thought about having a closed payment system or someone? Now we have these Mastercards and prepaid cards that can be used, but for example — I think I was with the Legal Committee when we visited Norway — there was a closed system on the island of Bastøy, where only that island was paid for it. Have there ever been such legislative ideas in Finland, for example? The second point is technical control and its increase. It is good to have precise rules on technical control, but it is also to be hoped that this technical control will increase as soon as these records are completed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u7	Mr President! This is an important bill. Thank you for the Ministry of Justice's contribution to bringing our authorities' powers into line with the current model. It is, of course, somewhat paradoxical that we need to develop legislation to prevent incarcerated crime when, of course, those crimes that have been committed in prison have been settled and it should be quite obvious that no more crimes will be committed during the prison period or the safety of people who are in prison and in prison. Mr President! I would also like to ask the Minister of Justice here at the same time that, when we have seen how our neighbour, Sweden, which in many ways is a social reference point for Finland, has, in recent years, slipped into a truly serious increase in violence and there the confrontations between criminal gangs are beginning to create a general sense of security, so how does this appear in the Ministry of Justice's administration? How can we prevent Finland from slipping into a situation where criminal gangs also pose a danger to the bystanders and clearly hamper citizens' sense of security? The Finnish authorities are certainly effective in their actions and with their very scarce resources they are doing an extremely good job, but is there anything we could do in the legislation in addition to these measures that are now being put forward to prevent the kind of development that Sweden has seen?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u8	Mr President! The government's proposal is wide-ranging when it comes to a number of different laws. The proposed amendments clarify the tasks and powers of the Criminal Sanctions Agency, improving cooperation between authorities, in particular in the fight against crime. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] I am familiar with the statement made by the Prison Officers in the autumn of the Federation and I consider the issues raised by them to be important. I think there are a few points in this proposal that need to be looked at again: First of all, the legislation on warrants is currently incomplete and the new provision would clarify it. However, it should be added that the Criminal Sanctions Agency has the power to alert a prisoner who escapes, leaves the prison without authorisation or does not return to prison at a specified time. An APB must be possible in all situations where the prisoner is outside the prison without permission from the Criminal Sanctions Agency. We cannot give any interpretation as to whether or not to put out an APB. This is important in all cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u9	Mr President! Good Minister of Justice! This proposal is absolutely important and removes many of the shortcomings that we currently have in this cooperation between the Criminal Sanctions Agency, the police and other investigating authorities. There are a few things I would have raised here. The result of the crime is the loss of freedom. Limiting freedom is also part of a prison period in which, in many ways, the freedom of the prisoner is restricted. But the prisoner has privacy and privacy as well, and in this proposal there are many points that go to what level it is, what it is like during imprisonment. For example, with regard to this camera surveillance, I hope that when the committee deals with this, it will be ensured that a certain degree of privacy and intimacy is maintained. First of all, I would like to raise the following point here: Chapter 19 of the Prisons Act introduces a provision on the right of officials of the Criminal Sanctions Agency to report to the police information on events and persons who can reasonably be judged to be connected with criminal activities in the course of the exercise of their powers and duties. This is an excellent thing — the right to notify if you notice anything. I would ask the Minister now, since I have not found in this motion whether there will also be an obligation to notify an official. I have the impression that this law does not have — i.e. there is — a right, but no obligation to notify.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u12	Mr President! It is an extremely important law that has now come to Parliament with a government proposal. We have a huge amount of information on prisoners, for example, gathered by the authorities, but it is sad that the flow of information between the authorities does not go smoothly. It often creates situations that may pose a danger to the people around it or, for example, prison guards or, with prisoners, to people who do different work. A person has been guilty of some serious crimes, but this has not become known in due course. Especially since we now have very good data-gathering tools, very excellent data-gathering tools, we must have legislation up to date so that in such cases, for example, when there are very serious crimes at stake, the authorities — the investigating authorities, the police, Customs, the border guards — have the right to receive information from other authorities about what has actually happened, so that the overall picture can be created to ensure the safety of citizens. If we already have that information, it will be sad if it cannot be used. But now we have the draft law that the Minister has just presented, and I hope that this will come into force as soon as possible and that this investigation will be tightened up and, above all, guaranteed that people's safety will be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u13	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, there are a lot of important points here. After receiving the report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we will deal with this carefully in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. The same is true of what I am thinking about, Mr Laukkanen, that is, this obligation/right to provideinformation that is justified in relation to criminal activity. However, it is a prerequisite here for the disclosure of information. It would seem rather unusual for the authority not to have an obligation if, as the Minister said, it was linked to criminal activity, while one of the purposes of this legislation is to prevent criminal offences during prison. Although, of course, it should be obvious that there is no crime in prison, but unfortunately that is the case. I myself would like to raise the issue of life imprisonment and a risk assessment. I have come out of this with Mr Rantanen a few weeks ago, but I have not seen any further discussion on it since it was Mr Häkkänen's opinion. We have a problem specifically with these life imprisonment prisoners and their release and the risk assessment to be carried out in this context. Emerita Professor Terttu Utriainen has also taken the view that these court decisions give a great deal of weight, in fact too much, to whether there is family life, study and intoxication. That is not the most crucial factor at the moment, but the fact that the person is still in the high risk of violence. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is intended to amend the legislation so that we should give priority to the fact that other people are allowed to move safely in society, and not, for example, to the fact that there are situations of this kind, that people are constantly committing homicides and that they are always able to try life again, so to speak, even though it can already be said from experience that it has not been successful. The second category where these risk assessments are not carried out is temporary imprisonment. For example, this serial strangler, who has never been sentenced to life imprisonment, but has received periodic penalties for killings, has not been subjected to such a risk assessment. In this statement, which I made with a member of the Legal Committee, Mr Rantanen, we asked him to consider whether it should be extended so that, in connection with the decisions on the release of those who have committed serious crimes of violence on time, it would always be considered whether a person is in a state of being allowed to enter society or whether he should be kept for a certain period of time, so long as he has been rehabilitated, behind closed doors, and if he is very seriously at risk, even for the rest of his life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u14	Mr President! The improvement in the cooperation of the authorities raised by Mr Ovaska is very important. In this connection, it is also worth mentioning and highlighting Mr Laiho's proposal for a chemical castration, which is certainly worth mentioning. After all, foreigners have a clear over-representation in sexual offences, and this is particularly emphasised in cooperation with the Finnish Immigration Service. I believe that the suitability of chemical castration for asylum seekers who cannot be turned away despite sexual offences committed and a negative asylum decision needs to be clarified. I assume that the Minister of Justice, in his reply, will not give special treatment to these groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u15	Minister of Justice Henriksson, 3 to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u16	Mr President! First of all, thank you for the good questions. This proposal does not concern the release of dangerous offenders, but I will answer this question because it came from so many directions, and I am sure we should return to it. In other words, the Ministry of Justice is now running a project assessing the conditions for the release of the most dangerous violent criminals, and the report on life imprisonment is currently in the consultation process. So this is a very, very topical issue. This memorandum of assessment has considered, among other things, whether the role of the assessment of the risk of violence to prisoners of life in the context of the exemption exercise should be strengthened by legislation, that is to say, exactly what you have also raised here. However, prior to any amendments to the law, the reliability of criminal assessments must be investigated. It is very important that if we go there and raise it to such a level that we must always stick to it, then we must also be able to rely on that assessment to be carried out correctly. To this end, a research project will now be launched this spring. Well, then, there was also the fact that there are other dangerous offenders than life imprisonment. This is true, and in addition to life imprisonment, the treatment of other dangerous violent criminals in the law and their release practices will now be evaluated by the Ministry of Justice. A working group will now be set up in spring. When possible legislative changes are made, account must of course be taken of the human rights obligations binding on Finland and also of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which states that life imprisonment must be accompanied by a prospect of liberation and the possibility of a review of the continuation of the deprivation of liberty. I agree with many Members that we need to look into this and we need to think about it, and we will certainly come back to that. Of course it is the duty of society to protect people, and if it is known that a person is dangerous to society, to other people, then we must have a system that protects us. On the other hand, there must also be real certainty that the risk assessment has been carried out correctly. Then a few other comments: We are now also concerned about the security of the prison. That is why these cameras are coming, and that is why the communication and the exchange of information will also have more opportunities in relation to Rise. I think it is very good that this bill is finally coming. As far as payment cards were concerned, Mr Ovaska asked if a closed system had been envisaged. I don't know about that. I'm sure you can ask more questions in the Legal Committee. As far as the APB is concerned, this is where the representative raised the question of that too. The proposal now is that there should be a clear paragraph stating that the Criminal Sanctions Agency may be wanted if the prisoner escapes or leaves the prison without authorisation and so on or if he has been granted permission to stay outside the prison and does not return at the time specified in the permit conditions or otherwise violates the conditions of the permit. All of these are now coming into that law, and they are good changes. Mr Laukkanen then also asked who, in a way, controls the person who controls these cards. I'm sure you do. There is also precise information within Mrs Rise on who is responsible, and ultimately the Ombudsman is the one who controls our authorities. But I am sure it is good that the committee will hear more about this. All in all, I would also like to tell you now that we have been informed that there have now been some problems with the placing in prison of the person to be removed from the country in order to obtain police information. The police have criticised Rise for not giving the police information on where the person to be removed from the country was placed. The Ministry of Justice considers the disclosure to the police of information on the placement of the person to be removed from the country necessary to ensure the functioning of cooperation between the authorities. For this reason, in order to clarify the legal basis, I will propose and the Ministry will propose that the law on the processing of personal data adopted by the Criminal Sanctions Agency should be clarified in this regard. It'll come.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u19	The 30 minutes have been spent on this matter and the debate and the debate will therefore be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u20	We will now resume the debate on item 6 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u21	Mr President! Last year we visited Norway with the Legal Committee to familiarise ourselves with Norwegian prison care and Norwegian legislation, and it was clear from that trip that there is room for improvement in the flow of information and information between different authorities in Finland. It is quite clear that, in terms of the overall security of prisons and society, information needs to go better. The reasons for this development measure and the change in regulation exist, bearing in mind that organised crime has increased and criminal gangs have emerged — it cannot be that prisons are an environment where crime is growing and not decreasing. So I sincerely believe that with these suggestions for improvement we will be able to influence this flow of information and thus the feeling of Finnish security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u22	Mr President! I reserved the floor at the point where the Minister was present, and it was intended to ask the Minister that, as we know, although the prison is under strict control, there are acts of violence by both individual and criminal organisations, drug use, extortion and so on. I would have asked the Minister what other legislative measures are going to be taken to improve the security situation in prisons than those in this actual proposal. I am referring here to prison conditions — staff training, disciplinary measures, mental health services and so on. As far as this motion is concerned, of course, information must move quite agilely between the various authorities and bodies, especially when it comes to crime. Such a need for cooperation has proved to be absolutely essential both for prisons and for society as a whole and for security. But my actual speech would have been related to the question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u23	Mr President! There is a government proposal to prevent incarcerated crime, and I think that the bill is very welcome. The exchange of information between the police and the Criminal Sanctions Agency is currently insufficient. After this bill, the authority has the right to report suspicious behaviour of the prisoner. But, Mr President, I would like to draw the same attention as Mr Laukkanen earlier today to the fact that, although he is entitled to make a declaration, there is not necessarily a duty. I hope that those who sit in the Committee on Legal Affairs and who are here today will pay particular attention to this point. Yes, there should also be an obligation to report an activity that refers to criminal activity. After all, it is very common that drugs are used in prison — drug crimes are commonplace there. For example, in Riihimäki prison, where I visited with the Legal Committee a couple of years ago, there seemed to be a scourge of drones, which were used to bring drug consignments into the prison area. In other words, these new types of control mechanisms are also needed as technology has developed. One is also the use of the Internet and various social media and e-mails. I believe that the use of these instruments must continue to be well monitored, particularly for prisoners who have committed serious crimes. I recently attended the OSCE Counter-Terrorism Committee in Norway, where I became familiar with the practice, the way these dangerous prisoners are treated there, and the kind of punishment that exists. And I would like us to learn from the way in which, following this Utøya event in 2011, Norway amended its legislation. So there this person who committed these terrible crimes against young people received 21 years of imprisonment and every five years his punishment will be examined, that is, whether he is ready to return to a normal society or not. It is a pity that the Minister of Justice is not here to hear this debate, but I hope that the real length of the life sentence will also be taken into consideration and the way in which these most dangerous prisoners are held in prisons, especially for how long. I myself have had discussions with, among other things, the prison care specialist Hannu Lauerma, who has said that there may be between 5 and 20 prisoners in Finland who may be, perhaps it would never be worth letting go if we were to consider the danger they pose to society. Of course, we must take into account the human rights legislation and the international agreements in which we are involved. But in some way our legislation needs to be clarified and enforced in relation to these prisons for life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u24	Mr President! We have a government proposal on time-related crime. This is, of course, a somewhat conceptually strange situation in which people who are imprisoned commit crimes, even in that situation, Mr Kauma described, among other things, drug crimes. It is actually self-evident that, in this situation, when a prisoner is directly under official control, it is only natural that the flow of information between the authorities must also be ensured in a different way than, perhaps, on many other points, when this government proposal is absolutely correct. Mr Kauma was reflecting on the situation in Norway, and I myself was wondering: 21 years in prison for a clearly politically oriented crime of that kind, in which, in my opinion, this offender has still not shown a sign of repentance, but, on the contrary, he is seeking, if he can, in his own way, confirmation of his self-esteem and even publicity in these matters when he can. We are in a very risky situation here, even in this type of violence, which is described as political. I cannot go and say how life sentences should be fulfilled and followed, but I am thinking of the same type of reflection as Mr Kauma referred to in his own speech. Mr President! I did want to take the floor earlier in the day when this debate was in the first stage. I actually reacted to Mr Junnila's speech. Representative Junnila in her own speech moved attention to sexual offences, expulsions, people who committed sexual crimes of foreign origin, and said very strongly, in any case, clearly stated in one sentence, which I wanted to respond to, that people of foreign origin commit disproportionate amounts of sexual offences compared to Finns. This argument appeared to be that, as it were when a passport was someone else, sexual offences were more committed. In this respect, it is worth recalling the statistics in that people on a Finnish passport while abroad also commit sexual offences in a significant, multiplicity of cases, to a greater extent than Finns do in their home country. In other words, the circumstances in which a person goes abroad are, in many ways, like those crimes committed by persons prone to sexual offences. This should now be borne in mind that yes, the circumstances vary when people are in their own country or abroad — social control, the system is different and so on — and so on — and so on. Not only do we not get the impression that we are looking at these things on an ethnic basis, but we are looking at them precisely on the basis of circumstances, which reflects this extremely negative expression of behaviour when we are abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u25	Mr President! I would also like to thank you for this necessary legislative proposal, which is therefore intended to improve the exchange of information between the authorities and to increase the powers to prevent crime in prison. And indeed, as Mr Kiljunen said, this is symptomatic in the sense that we are dealing here with a change of law in order to combat the crime of persons who are responsible for their crimes in prisons — that is, those who should seek to return to being socially viable citizens. I would like to highlight in particular the monitoring of payment cards that has been raised in this debate in the past. That is really what this bill is now making possible. Control of the use of payment cards is indeed central to the fight against drug crime, for example. This control can also protect prisoners from the pressure associated with this form of crime. In this context, I would also like to support the view expressed in several speeches that the assessment of the danger of life imprisonment in Finland should be changed in order to ensure greater safety for other people. If the risk assessment itself appears to be red, the prisoner should not be released. In practice, support for life in life has come from truly authoritative psychiatric circles, that is, from those who understand the darkness of the human mind the most. In his own speech, Congressman Kauma referred to the positions of the chief medical officer of the psychiatric prison hospital, who has also publicly stated that, according to his assessment, there are about five people in Finland who should never be released from prison. The primary tasks of the Finnish State are to protect the security of its citizens, the right to life and life. It is clear that Finland's human rights obligations must be taken into account when it comes to the possibility of being released from life imprisonment, but I think it is equally clear that hardened, dangerous, perpetrators of cruel crimes do not belong on the streets of Finland. I have often wondered how strong the rights of a criminal and a prisoner can be in a situation in which another person, bystander or other prisoners or prison workers are placed on the right to security in another scale. I have wondered whether the different fundamental rights will be adequately weighed if the rights of another criminal or prisoner who endangers security go beyond those of others.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u26	Mr President! I also listened to the first part of the debate, and now the rest of the debate has taken place, and I would like to say for myself that I believe that this government proposal, which relates to certain procedures and to the tightening of them and the revision of regulation in prison conditions, is one aspect of internal security. In 2016, Parliament received a report on internal security, and I understand that during this parliamentary term too we will return with a broad perspective to internal security, which has many parts. Of course, prisons must not be a college of criminals. We have some very worrying examples at international level, even close and, of course, further away. Based on all that we have heard recently, developments in Finnish prisons have recently gone in a worrying direction, and it is therefore good that the ministry and parliament and the government are on the edge of time here. Three different times in this debate were mentioned, i.e. by three different representatives, the name of Chief Doctor Hannu Lauerma. I know Mr Lauerman very well, and I have discussed these issues with him. He has just said that there are some people in Finland who are so dangerous, in such a way that psychopathological people should not be released. His solution — as I myself have understood in the debate with him — has not always been to extend the life sentence in the traditional way, but to take account of this disturbed psychopathology, so to speak, that we can isolate these people for the rest of their lives. Well the shape of this or the form does, but the end result is the one that is being sought here. Sexual offences and the proportion of foreigners in them have also been mentioned in this debate. This issue has been discussed very thoroughly by the Committee on Administrative Affairs — and it has concluded today’s expert consultation — on three different days, and this problem has now appeared to be very complex. I am not going to expand the debate myself in this direction, because this citizens' initiative, which we have discussed, will come to us later, but, overall, a very important one. I am not going to politicize this, but I quote former British Prime Minister Tony Blair when he was the Interior Minister of the Shadow Government. He said in English: ‘Wearetoughoncrimes,buttoughonthecausesofthecrimestoo’. This idea is something that pleases me. We must be persistent in relation to crime, but also in relation to the causes of crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u27	Mr President! As has been pointed out in many speeches, it is, in its own way, quite paradoxical that we are going to have to deal with a bill that talks about preventing criminality during prison. The fact that criminal activity during prison periods can occur in general shows that there is a significant need to clarify legislation and to adopt measures. The fact that, above all, in sexual offences, the proportion of people with foreign background and, above all, certain nationalities has been overemphasized has been highlighted in several speeches. I listened with great interest to Mr Kiljunen's speech, in which he explained that the very reason for this phenomenon is that when you are in a foreign environment, then certain mechanisms of social control will be removed and then the circumstances will arise that make such reprehensible behaviour more susceptible. I personally do not take a stand on the background to the fact that foreign backgrounds, and in particular certain nationalities, are overrepresented in these types of crimes. But if this interpretation put forward by Mr Kiljunen is true — that the increase in the number of foreigners in general or the fact that they are staying abroad increase the vulnerability to sexual offences — then is it particularly desirable for Mr Kiljunen to see an increase in the proportion of people with a foreign background in society? And what are the possible consequences for society, in the opinion of Mrs Kiljunen, if this interpretation of the screamer is correct?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u28	Mr President! Representative Rydman here opened an important angle as to whether immigration, the arrival of a foreign population in Finland, in any society, is a risk that if in these foreign circumstances, in foreign circumstances, in the new circumstances different types of control mechanisms that regulate behaviour in that neighborhood will change, then this type of crime will be allowed to take place in a different way than in the rest of the framework. Now, first of all, I have to say that this is statistically the case. On average, Finns abroad commit more crimes than Finns do in Finland. This is absolutely the case. In Finland, the situation was roughly a few years ago that the number of foreign offences in Finland was 11 per cent, while there are three and a half per cent of people of foreign origin in Finland, 4 per cent, nearly 4 per cent,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u31	Mr President! Firstly, a comment on Mr Kiljunen's speech: I have a slight disagreement with those statistics, as you have said in that regard with regard to these people with a foreign background and, in particular, with regard to sexual offences. Of course, as a society, we must take all offenders equally seriously or equally harshly, regardless of their background, ethnic background or otherwise, but we should not underestimate that debate either. We must be able to discuss these issues openly in this Chamber, too, without anyone feeling that there are aspects of racism. My actual comment relates to this speech by Mrs Vestman, or indeed to the debate, if I have understood that correctly. We have a lot of talk about the human rights and rights of offenders, and perhaps also about protecting them through this, but less often in this Chamber we have talked about the rights of victims or those who are affected by any new crimes. I myself would like to see legislative proposals specifically in relation to the legal protection of victims. The representative, Mr Lindén, raised the issue of Mr Lauerman, as he did earlier. I have also had a discussion with him about the fact that abroad, where he often goes to speak, there are wonders about Finnish law, how lax it is compared to the perpetrators of these very violent crimes in particular. He often has to explain it. I say it now in public, because his name was often mentioned here. For my part, I have been thinking about why our legislation is very strict, for example, with regard to financial crimes, but then when it comes to crimes relating to spirit and health, suddenly we are much milder and lighter in those penalties. I would also like to have a debate on this, because it may be that it has some connection with our history: we have been a poor people, and in that sense those economic interests must then be protected and justified. But I would see for myself that the physical integrity of a person, why not even the mental one, is really important and that legislation should be developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u32	Mr President! First of all, I fully agree with what Mr Kauman has just said on these very issues, how the lengths of our sentences are weighted in relation to the different types of crime. I don't give a shit what I think. Secondly, I have in my hand a recent police record with the correct figures on what we are now discussing here: crime by species and then the proportion of foreigners and the proportion of Finns living in Finland and so on. I am not going to quote them here because, as I said earlier, I am not going to extend this debate to this subject, which in itself is complex and interesting and which has taken place in the Committee on Administrative Affairs in recent days. Instead, I would like to draw a conclusion that was quite eye-opening today in our committee when we discussed the citizens' initiative on the possible expulsion of people of foreign origin who had committed sexual offences and when they were being heard. It was only then that I heard and realised that the initiative had been born among the immigrant population. And it was born in a situation where the immigrant population and the native Finns who married them felt strongly guilty to themselves on the basis of its ethnic background. And in distress, in order to reduce this pressure, they took this initiative: if we were to banish these sexual offenders now, the pressure for all immigrants to be bad people in some way or commit crimes would be eased. This was a very eye-opening debate. I think it has something to do with the excellent article in Helsingin Sanomat this weekend, which dealt with a particular type of speech, is now called hate speech or not. On the basis of that article, I wrote a very extensive update on Facebook, in which, if I may say so, the red thread was that we must never blame any ethnic, religious or other group for the fact that some of its members are guilty of something. I quoted, for example, a book with a strange name: ‘Why is Sinatra important’. It's a book about the history of the American people. Sinatra says in that book on page 57 — I remember it because I have just written this update — that in the 1960s he supported the activities of quite radical black civil rights movements because of their people, and by that he meant American-Italians, have raced at the end of the rope, as the black people have also done. For example, he referred to a lynching event in New Orleans in the early 1990s. Well, this is going a long way now. But the message was that those who committed the crime must be convicted, but we must never label any group on that basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u33	Mr President! Of course, the statistics are available in a wide range of ways, and when crime statistics are read, there is, of course, a reason not only to read about the types of crime involved, but also to be more precise about what the crime of foreign origin is. The statistics also show that there are certain types of crime committed by certain nationalities, for one reason or another, significantly more often than the native population or other ethnic groups. This is a question in which it is, of course, dangerous to take a very specific position on the reasons behind this phenomenon. That is the fact that this is the case. It is perhaps better to leave the answer to sociologists and social scientists than to leave the seat of a Member of Parliament to comment on it. However, this issue does not help to be put on the background either, and it is not worth explaining it in the second place, but it is worth noting that the problem is real and is also given sufficient attention. Against this background, I am delighted that, as Mr Lindén described, the Committee on Administrative Affairs will take a careful look at this in its own deliberations and look into it. I believe that the good committee, in which I myself have once been an actual member, now an alternate, will also play its role well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u34	Mr President! I, too, appreciate what both Mr Rydman and Mr Kauman have said, and I would like to say straight away that when Mr Kauma said that we should not belittle ourselves when there is a question of serious crimes, such as the physical or mental integrity of a person, I agree with Mr Kauman: in no case should we belittled. And sexual crimes typically are the most presumptuous abuse of man, there is no place for understatement. The fact that this issue can and must be discussed is true. Some suggested that someone here immediately sees the aspects of racism when there is a debate on this — no. We don't see any aspects of racism here. I was wondering who was reacting to it. I will have to respond personally, at least if the starting point is that we refer to a nationality — Mr Lindén opened it even further: a religious group, a group belonging to an ethnic minority or a group belonging to an ethnic majority — and we note that these groups tend to commit more crimes than some others. I think there is a racist aspect to it, and I must say that another person in this Chamber has spoken during this spring, in which he very strongly, in clear words said that if people are referred to their origins and stated that people are treated differently in relation to their origins, then we are attached to the concept of racism. It was the President of the Republic who used these terms at the opening of the parliament. I also think it is important that we recognise that this type of approach is not appropriate. Yes, Mr Rydman is right: statistics tell a lot of things and tell a lot of things and also cover things up. It's an old saying that first there's a lie, then there's a lie and then there's a statistics. We are both social scientists enough to understand how statistics can also be misused in this respect. But it is clear that, if this is the case, that there are types of crime specific to certain groups of people, to some citizens, to some sections of the population, then I can agree with it if, for example, we can define that in one country the use of cannabis is permitted and in another, it appears in the statistics of the other country in which it is not allowed that the citizens of that country commit more crimes than the citizens of that country. Yes. If legislative practices and cultures vary, then it is true that there are such differences. But when we talk about these fundamental fundamentals, namely fundamental human rights, human dignity, then I think the starting point is that we are dealing with universal matters, and then we treat people as human beings completely regardless of nationality.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u35	Mr President! This government proposal on the prevention of incarceration-time crime in prisons and the transmission of information that happens naturally between different authorities — I have sometimes said in many other contexts that this current data protection law and the problems associated with it are quite astonishing. There is important information, even if it is said now to guarantee the safety of people working in prison, that information already exists about what has happened and should be protected from, but for some reason that information does not just move between the authorities. This has been observed on many occasions. For example, it is known that in military times — most men are military visitors — there is a lot of information about people there too, about what has happened in the civilian population and what happens in the military, for example, to a person who performs military service. Many times there have been incidents. Today's major problem is the use of drugs, it can be said directly. It certainly causes problems wherever this phenomenon occurs and is noticeable. Unfortunately, when you read the information that the newspapers write, for example, the tragic thing to follow is that in prisons, for example, drug use is very common today. It's spread all over our society. It is precisely legislation that needs to be strengthened and done in such a way that the authorities are able to obtain effective and useful information from each other quickly, because it is also wrong that we currently have a very good information system in Finland and throughout the world, that all data is generally stored and used, but then they must not be used in such cases, to solve crimes and to ensure the safety of people who work in prison, for example. I would like to see further progress on these issues in order to secure a safe working environment for people. Of course, in the case of prison, it also serves the people who are suffering their punishments there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u36	Mr President! With reference to that speech by Mr Kiljunen, I would like to underline once again that I am not trying to explain why certain nationalities are overrepresented in certain types of crime. There may certainly be many different reasons for this, but it may be a rather demanding task to find out all of them and perhaps a risk to the present social climate. But it is a good thing that these matters are properly addressed. Despite the fact that it may be a complex matter and the diversity of these causes may require a rather extensive investigation, it must not be a reason for this phenomenon and issue to be obscured, because it certainly draws attention to the fact that certain nationalities in certain types of crime are overrepresented. Of course, there is cause for concern, especially if it seems that problems are beginning to accumulate. I hope that this issue will be taken seriously and that the various citizens' initiatives and legislative proposals will also be dealt with in the relevant committees.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u37	Mr President! I am sure that Mr Rydman and I are in complete agreement. It is good to identify these phenomena, which are, of course, to a certain extent a reality. In fact, I would have liked to add to this proposal by the government itself on criminality during imprisonment, which is here, that, now that we are paying many attention to the rights of prisoners and also to the social eligibility of prisoners, it is also a question of the safety of other prisoners and of people working in prison, as has been said in several speeches and as has been the case in the last time by Mr Hoskone. That too must be taken into account when dealing with this bill in this form.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u38	Mr President! Indeed, statistics can be read in many ways, and I now dug up last year’s police statistics on sexual offences. According to these statistics, almost 23% of foreign citizens are reported for sexual offences where the suspect is known if I read this statistics correctly. And so this amount has only increased. According to media data, in the rape cases reported to the police in 2018, the proportion of foreign suspects in Helsinki was more than half. The statistics clearly show that certain ethnic groups are overrepresented in sexual crime statistics. These are statistical facts. I don't take sides, either. There was a bit of a tone in Mr Kiljunen's previous speeches that it was as if the crimes committed by Finns could justify why foreigners commit crimes in Finland. This is certainly not the logic that can be pursued. Thus, no country, Finland or any other country, has to tolerate unadjusted, violent and sexual offenders from abroad. After all, Finland has enough problems with our own domestic crime, [Leena Sea interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u39	President! Once again, when Mr Vestman returned to this subject: I once used this saying that first there is a lie, a lie, and then there is a statistics. This statistical data that 23 per cent of the perpetrators of sexual offences have a foreign background is certainly the correct statistical figure. I gave you an earlier figure that was a few years ago: Of all offences committed in Finland, all offences, not just sexual offences, 11 per cent are committed by people with foreign background. The background is simply that this is more than the relative share of people with foreign background in the Finnish population. This is a fact. This is now a statistical fact. Now we still have the question that exists in these police statistics and which I wanted to open up to you earlier. People with a foreign background are included here as temporary residents, including tourists and short-term visitors and those with a foreign background who do not have Finnish citizenship, a Finnish passport. Now in this debate, when we see a person with a foreign background who lives permanently in Finland, we get distracted, the perspective becomes that there is yet another one of those people with a foreign background, and this one is misled by the fact that most of these foreign offenders, the majority of them, are really on the verge of a short-term visit. I said earlier that when Finns go abroad, they commit considerably more crimes than they do in Finland. That this is the situation that needs to be assessed here. This temporary nature of the situation creates these arrangements, not foreignism. This is what I wanted to argue. You can continue along that road, and with the statistics you can go through this, but please open the statistics correctly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u40	Mr President! As a person of police background, I too have quite often become aware of the situation of prison officials that at least some of these crimes in prisons could be prevented if there were a sufficient number of guards. The situation is exactly the same, which means that staffing is undersized on the police side as well as on the prison guards' side in these prisons.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u41	Mr President! While this debate is still going on and important things have been raised: I myself have these recent statistics here, as I mentioned. Surely we all have access to them too. Yes, it is a fact that in certain crimes people with foreign background — however they are recorded, referring to what Mr Kiljunen has just said — are overrepresented. But my message in this matter is that if we have 3,500 sexual crimes in Finland per year and 700 to 800 of them are made by people with foreign background, it has a significant over-representation. But when we have 250,000 foreign backgrounds officially, as they are classified in Finland — 4.5 per cent of the population in Finland — we must not in practice blame 249,000 people because they have a citizenship background other than the so-called prosumer, because those who commit certain crimes among them, or in fact these statistics tell of suspects, are overrepresented. That is the point. Because if we practice this kind of guilt, it will in any case lead to excesses, which then appears, for example, to what I referred to today: in that hearing it was indeed so surprising that this initiative to expel people of foreign background who had committed sexual crimes had come from there from among the immigrant population, because they felt so strongly distressed by the guilt that it was commonly stigmatized against them that there were persons who have committed this kind of crime. So I want to keep these two things clearly separate, even though the facts and the numbers are the way they are.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u42	Mr President! My subject is not directly related to the government's proposal, which is being discussed, but much more has been said here in the Chamber, and it is related to it. I have drawn attention to such words as what has been here: ‘the angle of income’, ‘statistics’, ‘percentages’, ‘foreign’ and ‘foreign’. My idea is that because it's native, we don't need imports from abroad anymore, do we? That, in view of what has been in these crimes against life and health, it is the line that it is in mind that abroad then suffer those penalties. Of course, Mr President, to this government proposal, as the representative has said in the back, the question of human resources and also the law that is being reformed is the point of increasing security in prison. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u43	I came in the middle of this debate on the subject and I understood that this debate has expanded somewhat from the title, but I did not go to this one again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u44	Mr President! I thought I wasn't allowed to talk anymore, but now I'm not going to spend any more time explaining myself. This is where Mr Kiljunen asked for these statistics to be opened. After all, these have been opened in many media by various scientists. Now, with this first fast Google, I found 15.12.2018, this is Ala Saeed, Executive Director of the Iraqi Women's Association, and then Tuija Hietaniemi, Special Investigator of the Central Crime Police, and they're opening these. Here's a big report on the sexual crimes of foreigners, numbers and causes. This states that foreign citizens, especially Iraqis and Afghans, are overrepresented in sexual crime statistics, and experts say that the causes of the crimes are war, a violent culture of honour and age structure. There is one here, for example, so, Mr Kiljunen, you should not go unknowingly, just Google a few words. I came here a few minutes ago, and I Googled from here. These statistics can be opened. Similarly, Emerita Professor Terttu Utriainen has been talking about this for years. This isn't a new thing. You'll find that information. As I recall, the last time we discussed such matters, you argued that Swedes committed these crimes in Finland when Swedish tourists visited,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u47	Mr President! In order not to remain unclear, I would like to say to Mr Lindén that I agree that, under no circumstances should we stigmatise entire groups of people for crimes committed by individuals. This is absolutely unacceptable. I think precisely that it is in the interests of the majority of foreigners who are law-abiding and respect Finnish values that Finland strictly intervenes when foreigners commit such serious crimes here, and that Finland is firm in this respect and also effectively expels those who have been convicted of these serious sexual and violent crimes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u48	President! All I can say about this is that I agree with the representative. That is, of course, the case. So these are serious crimes, which is what this is all about. Yes, I have also gone through those statistics and I see that people from certain cultures are more guilty of these sexual crimes than those from other cultures. I was only trying to open up the problem of which the representative Lindén opened here earlier when he said that there are 240 000 people with foreign background who already have Finnish citizenship. If you still include those who have received a permanent residence permit, there are in fact more than 300,000 people in Finland at the moment, probably 320,000 people who speak non-Finnish or Swedish as their mother tongue — who therefore live permanently here. So we have a huge crowd of these people. And then, when it was found that 700 people were guilty of sexual crimes and that they were not specifically among these people living here, this is a miswording, ‘not among them’. I repeat: The question is still that most of these people with foreign background are temporarily visiting us, they are not people of foreign background permanently living in Finland. When you take those with foreign background who permanently live here in Finland, compared to Finns who permanently live in Finland, their share of these crimes is roughly the same. This is my thing now that I'm trying to open for you. That for those who have come to Finland temporarily — then they have come as asylum seekers, tourists, in other different situations — then there is the phenomenon you have been talking about, and it must be treated as such.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u49	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. Here too, the maximum amount of 30 minutes is set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u50	Mr President! The Government's proposal to amend the Employment Contracts Act currently under discussion aims to increase the information provided by employment and economic development offices on redundancies involving at least ten employees and thus to improve the predictability of the orientation of public employment services. It is proposed that the Employment Contracts Act should be referred back to a provision requiring the employer to inform the Employment and Economic Development Office of the dismissal of employees on an economic or productive basis where there are at least ten redundancies. The Employment and Economic Development Office would be informed, among other things, of the number of workers to be made redundant, the occupations and the work tasks and the dates of termination of employment relationships. Similarly, the Employment Contracts Act would also refer back to the provision on the employer's obligation to inform workers who are dismissed in those situations of their right to an employment plan with the Employment and Economic Development Authority at the beginning of the job search. The Law on Maritime Labour Contracts and the Law on the municipal office holder would be re-introduced with equivalent content. In addition, the Act on the Public Employment and Business Service would be referred back to the provision on preparedness for the receipt of employer notices. The proposal also proposes a number of technical changes. After all, the provisions on reporting and information obligations for employers were repealed in 2017 from the Employment Relationships Act. The return of these provisions has been proposed, inter alia, by the social partners in an agreement published in June last year on matters related to the further negotiations on the 2017 pension reform. What this means is that this proposal improves the information of employment and economic development offices when at least ten people are made redundant, and therefore the TE Offices can now better prepare and anticipate the targeting of services to those who become unemployed. Similarly, since this change in 2017, there has been a lot of feedback that the employment and economic authorities may no longer be informed of the number of persons to be made redundant as a result of the cooperation negotiations and their ability to prepare for the direction of the services has been weak. This proposal therefore reinforces the fact that the TE Offices can better respond to the needs of the services needed and, of course, also contribute to the faster transition of people who are at risk of unemployment to the services and, therefore, to the acceleration of employment. This proposal is not expected to have an impact on central government finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u51	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Hatainen, for a clear presentation. As employment rises slowly but surely, employment is increasingly challenging but still possible. In the light of this, we must also be prepared, deliberately, to withdraw what has already been laid down, to go back. In a complex world, we have to take decisions whose effects cannot be fully predicted. Some decisions come just like a new light in the midst of constant change. There must also be a readiness to take backward steps. The Government's proposal is amending the Employment Contracts Act, the Maritime Labour Contracts Act, the Act on the Municipal Administrator and the Act on Public Employment and Business Services. The need to restore the provisions has been highlighted, among other things, in the development of security of change work carried out in the European Social Fund’s national cooperation on security of change coordination project. In order to ensure consistency in the development of our legislation, clear and strong arguments should be put forward for changes. This is particularly important when we go back to the old. The proposal will restore the provisions repealed in 2017 which oblige the employer to notify the Employment and Economic Development Office of redundancies of at least ten employees to be made redundant. It restores the obligation to inform the dismissed worker that he is entitled to an employment plan. In such a referral debate, it is necessary to consider whether it is justified to restore the legislation, whether it has an impact on the big picture. Let us look at the vision of employment and economic services: the opportunities for offices to improve their work will improve as information is improved. Office employees can act more proactively when they are informed about the number of people to be dismissed and also about their skills. This, as the Minister has already said, will improve preparedness in changing circumstances. Hopefully it will also improve the allocation of services to those most in need of guidance. When this happens, change can indirectly prevent falling off the sled, exclusion from working life. What, then, is the employee’s point of view? In the event of an unfortunate dismissal, employees will receive more information about the available labour and business services. A change in which they receive professional guidance and support can be a new, even better, start for them. They keep up with the change, find new jobs, or encourage them to start their own business, for example. We need new companies like this all over the country. This should also be closely linked to continuous learning. People who do not have secondary education or who, for various reasons, have not maintained their skills in changes in working life are more easily dismissed in the course of a change in working life. In these changing situations, employees must be guided into changing the culture of working, learning future skills and taking responsibility for themselves. They should be guided and encouraged to develop themselves and their skills continuously, which should be seen as part of the work. The proposal will increase the administrative work of employers. Of course, the amount of additional work depends on the number of workers to be made redundant. It is estimated that the notification will take a few minutes per employee. The employment and economic development offices must make the notification as clear and easy as possible. The instructions must be in plain language. This will facilitate and reduce further work for employers. It should be borne in mind that employers also benefit from improved anticipation of services when recruiting new employees. Many of the opinions support the proposal as it stands. The Government proposal is based on an agreement between the social partners, so the Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK) does not comment on the proposal. The Finnish Entrepreneurs also stated: ‘Since the amendment to the Employment Contract Act has been oris more effective,the content of Mr President! From the point of view of promoting employment, anticipation of employment services and improving service provision and security of change, I support the government's proposal and wish the government every success in finding new employment opportunities. Of course, we can all contribute to this together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u52	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for his comprehensive presentation and to Mr Kinnus for his important speech. I am not going to repeat the important points he has raised, but I would like to say that the government's proposal is very welcome. Indeed, in this situation of employment, where we are, we must take into account all the means by which we can ensure that people do not fall on unemployment or that there are no long periods of unemployment. Of course, it is unfortunate that this really increases the workload somewhat, especially for the management of small and medium-sized enterprises. We must find other ways of facilitating the administrative burden on entrepreneurs and reducing the work they are doing, as I believe the government is doing. At this point, however, if we are to consider the amount of administrative work that will result from this, in relation to the benefit that the TE Offices can actually receive information on time, are better prepared for this need for services and thus, possibly, to prevent these unemployment pipelines, this proposal must be supported in every way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u53	Mr President! As has been said many times here, there are in a way two sides to the proposal: a somewhat increasing workload in the event of dismissal and an improved position for workers in the event of dismissal. The proposal will certainly bring some administrative work to the employer, but, as has been said here, it is certainly not an insurmountable question.It is essential that, from the point of view of the TE Offices, changes improve their chances of knowing the final number of workers to be made redundant as a result of the negotiations. In addition, the TE Offices would also be informed of redundancies involving at least ten employees in the future. The proposed changes would therefore very clearly improve the information provided by the TE Offices on the number of persons entering the public employment services, their professional background and enable better provision for measures to be taken against public employment and business services. Another important aspect is that, for workers to be made redundant, the anticipated information of the TE Offices can certainly be regarded as very positive. Of course, the assumption and starting point is that it would have an impact on the availability of better targeted employment services. President! I would like to ask the Minister responsible — thank you for being there, slightly expanding the matter — what other means do you consider to be, in particular, for the TE Centre and for the person made redundant, other than the good information added by the proposal itself?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u54	Mr President! With this Government proposal, we therefore reinstate the obligation to notify the TE Offices of redundancies of at least ten employees that have been cancelled in connection with the pension reform in 2017. After all, during the last parliamentary term there were quite a number of proposals aimed at facilitating the administrative burden in the various sectors, and this change was justified by reducing the administrative burden on SMEs. However, the article is now being re-established on a tripartite basis and the objectives are quite acceptable, since the aim is now to improve the information and foresight opportunities of the TE Offices and, of course, to increase employee information on services and security of change in the event of dismissal. The reply to the opinion of the motion should not result in any action being taken in committee, since a total of 11 opinions were received and all either supported this proposal or the statements had nothing to say about this government proposal. This law is supposed to come into force as early as spring, and we in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities have even started hearings about this change in advance, that is to say, there will be swiftness in positive and uncontroversial proposals, and that is a good thing. I personally think that the government's ambitious employment rate target requires a wide range of and a wide range of reviews, and in this case the proposal made during the last parliamentary term will be returned to what is known as the old one. Then, as regards the debate in this Chamber — and Mr Virra mentioned to the employers of the working fireplace resulting from this proposal — I would like to remind you that, when you read the content of this proposal, it is very clear from here that ‘the time required to submit a declaration may be harshly estimated that there are only a few minutes of workers on the site and that the employer could also compare the time spent on the journey, in what form and notifications should be submitted’. So this is a direct quote from the content of the proposal when you read it. So, in a way, I think that these proposed changes, which are in this bill, are:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u56	Mr President! Over the political spectrum of this House we will certainly agree — and I have understood at least from the debates here — that a high employment rate is the basis of our economy and well-being, and so the ambition of Prime Minister Marin's government is this 75% employment rate. The Government's proposal now before us does not necessarily draw on the broad lines of employment policy, but nevertheless clearly includes active measures to increase this notification process and at the same time improve the opportunities for employment and business services and the rights of those who are unemployed or threatened with dismissal to get employment measures. In fact, I asked for this because this will improve the reliability of our statistics. Let me take an example of this employment rate. In the Findicator, which is a database maintained by Statistics Finland, we have monthly readings of this employment rate, which was 73.0 per cent last December and was the highest in 30 years. When you study it, it says that that percentage corresponds to 250,000 employed and is plus minus 33,000 persons — i.e. note. Plus minus 33,000 people. In fact, that variation is more than one percentage point in both directions, since one percentage point of that two and a half million is 25,000. And now that we have such an ambitious target for this 75.0, and we are now at 73.0, it would be very important that our statistics are very reliable, because I anticipate that we will also be debating these issues in this Chamber, and then the range, plus minus 33,000, will be very significant. More detailed reporting will help us to make the statistics more accurate and reliable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u57	Mr President! This is not the first of the proposals to amend the legislation adopted by the previous government here in Parliament. And I'm afraid this is not the last of them either.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u60	Mr President! First of all, thank you, this is an important proposal for these provisions to be reinstated. The key to this is that TE Offices receive information about these redundant workers. Perhaps even more important is what I would like you to say, Minister, that what action will the TE Offices take in response to this? In my opinion, it is important, now that this information becomes more accessible, that the TE Offices also take the catch of these workers even more strongly and offer that help and support and the possibility of retraining and seek these jobs together with these unemployed workers. I would therefore like you to respond to this point of view: now more information is being made, and that is important, but how can this be seen in service production? And how will these experiments on employment come about, are they any idea of this? Otherwise, it would be interesting to hear the Minister's view on these. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u61	Mr President! Thank you to the government for a good presentation and a presentation to the Minister. Promoting employment is one of the main objectives of the government. When it comes to meeting the unemployed and jobs, it is important that employment services are as well informed as possible about changes in the region. This amendment will inform the authorities when at least ten workers are laid off. This change will provide workers with faster and better information about the paths to their difficult situation. In order to enable TE Offices to genuinely serve these people, it is important to ensure that they have adequate human resources. In order for the services provided to be properly sized and also meaningful for the unemployed themselves, the range of services must be sufficiently broad from job search training to more extensive retraining. In addition, TE Offices must have a genuine opportunity to get to know the situation of the unemployed, so that no one is cleaned up from statistics to a service that does not genuinely support employment. It is great that the draft law is widely supported by the social partners. However, I would like to ask the Minister how to ensure that, as the information provided by the TE Centres improves, new jobs can be offered to the unemployed as effectively as possible, but also meaningful services to support re-employment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u62	Mr President! Let us hope that this bill does not have the effect that information creates pain if there is not sufficient resources to deal with it as a very good starting point for the TE Offices to have that information. There is information, and if companies manage their business as a good business must, we have continuous learning, we have development discussions, we have well documented information about people and the level of their skills, and when this information is transferred to TE Offices in the event of dismissal, it is much easier to plan its training and retraining there. In this context, it should also be stressed that the level of personal competence of the person formed in the company through good discussions is clear when the person is notified of dismissal in the ten-person sapluon. What is important is that we can further develop the resources and systems of the TE Offices. The sufficiency of resources is certainly the key point that we can then make possible this legislation, which is being corrected. I should like to thank Mr Kilju for his good analytical speech on what is happening here and how things can be further developed. Representative Mäkynen raised the key issue: the resources of the TE Offices serve and enable this legislation to be taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u63	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the presentation. One can only agree with the previous speeches on the development of the TE Office. I was glad to hear this when, for many years in working life, I myself heard the message that the TE Offices should be developed, and that is why this bill is one of the things that I think are a step forward and the development of TE Offices so that it is a joint office for employees, but also for business people, and not just for one or the other. That is why I am happy to hear the Minister's views on how future TE services and the comprehensive development of TE Offices can be implemented. Secondly, on the basis of the debate in the Chamber in this draft law, it is important that the state of will is quite uniform. It has been united in the preparation, it has been prepared in a tripartite manner. Now, on the basis of the debate in the Chamber, I could argue that when there is a common will and a desire, these employment issues will certainly be brought to an end as planned by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u64	Mr President! I am also correcting on behalf of Mr Malmi, not the President, but the President. — This shall be recorded in the minutes on his behalf. Thank you for a good bill, a good change. I would have just asked Minister Hatainen: how could this information also be made available to recruiters in the third sector? In other words, if the various centres of excellence and organisations that employ people were also informed, within the framework of information security laws and privacy, of what kind of people are being released into the labour market, it would further promote employment and better integrate the labour market. Can this be promoted, i.e. the next step from the Employment and Economic Development Offices to the third sector, so that information on access can be better disseminated? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u65	Then Minister Haatainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u66	Mr President! First, to that administrative burden: It certainly cannot be regarded as significant, and indeed not as significant, when it comes to redundancies involving more than ten workers. When you give information about the number, occupations and tasks of the Employment and Economic Development Office, these must be as clear as they are in the companies and can then be provided, plus the dates of the termination of these employment relationships. The question was: how does this affect the TE Offices and what can be offered there? Of course, the Employment and Economic Development Offices will now be better able to anticipate when they know at an early stage what kind of people are failing to work, and then they will be able to direct those measures, think ahead and contact them in advance. Then the other side is that we must also tell these redundant workers that they have the right to an employment plan, and this will then be done together. After all, we have a change security package that can be used, but what is essential is — here we referred to education, the level of competence, and I think it is particularly important — then, in anticipation of training, we can start to think about it and to make it possible to tailor it to the kind of entity that can then be found for him in the region. After all, we have a situation where, at the same time, we have a huge number of vacancies. The Employment and Economic Development Offices have information about these, and we can begin to see that this person is able to move from work to work and will never fall into unemployment there, and that is why this access to information to the Employment and Economic Development Offices is absolutely essential. The question was asked what means are now available to strengthen employment management and the ability of the TE Offices to respond to the services in order to strengthen this whole package, and I think it is essential to speed up this process so that as soon as possible we can have a dialogue with people. So this is what is being applied for, but we are in the process of preparing this whole in these employment groups, and this work is being done. As a quick step, the government has allocated EUR 20 million to strengthening skills, training, and these searches are now underway. It is the case that TEM, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, was transferred to OKM 20 million in cash, which we now manage together to manage so that this training will then be directed at the unemployed people, that is, it will not go into the administration of OKM as money, but that the unemployed find jobs and can also contribute to these bottlenecks. In a way, both sides will benefit: unemployment will be reduced, and bottlenecks that do not find workers will receive experts, skilled workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u67	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u68	Mr President! There is now a draft law which proposes to amend the Law on the Organisation of Water Management and Maritime Management, and these amendments are largely technical. In this context, I would like to draw more attention to the state of our waters and, in particular, the Baltic Sea. Blue algae blooms following eutrophication are a terrible problem in our waters and especially in the Baltic Sea every summer. Despite the fact that the regulatory burden of Finns has been constantly increased, algae boards seem to emerge year by year. Of course, it is clear that it will take time to recover from decades of nutrient pollution in the Baltic Sea and the eutrophication caused by this, and, of course, nutrients continue to spread in the Baltic Sea with fertilizers, municipal waste water and air discharges, and not really alone from Finland. In its programme, the Government has promised funding for the continuation of the water efficiency programme, the implementation of the circular economy promotion programme, flood protection and water management in fields, and the promotion of nutrient recycling through a key project. Unfortunately, now that the Minister is not here to reply, there is no response as to how these projects have progressed. If the representatives of the governments here know, I am happy to hear — it seems that there is more talk and objectives here too than concrete measures up to now. It is clear that Finland alone cannot bear the burden of the state of the Baltic Sea. Emissions to the Baltic Sea do not look at the boundaries of the waters. Indeed, reducing the burden caused by Finland alone will not solve anything if other countries, especially Russia and Poland, continue their massive discharges into the Baltic Sea. The protection of the sensitive inland sea therefore requires cross-border action. There are, of course, good examples of water protection measures. Especially thanks to improved wastewater treatment in St.Petersburg, improvement has been observed in the Gulf of Finland. Of course, the Baltic Sea Sea Sea Convention is central to cross-border activities, namely HELCOM, the executive body, which will be the Finnish Presidency until the end of this year. An ambitious outcome should now be achieved in the reform of the Baltic Sea Action Programme, in particular in reducing nutrient loads. This must be pushed forward by Finland's determination. Great burdeners Russia and Poland must be made to do their part in order to leave the Baltic Sea to our children in a better condition than we could.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u69	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman. Mr Vestman has made a good speech on an important issue, the protection of the Baltic Sea and measures to protect the Baltic Sea. The government is making an ambitious environmental protection policy, but we certainly need to take bolder steps with the Baltic Sea in order to secure the future. The centre also believes it is good and important to take care of surface water and groundwater. We also want to reduce the burden on lakes and rivers by improving water protection in forestry and agriculture, peat industry and communities. At the same time, we will reduce the burden on the Baltic Sea, which Mrs Vestman has rightly spoken about. Threats to water systems and groundwater are increasing with the accumulation of climate change chemicals and plastics. Globally, groundwater resources will also be depleted. Clean drinking water must not be taken for granted in Finland either, but clean groundwater areas must also be protected for future generations. For example, people’s own effects on eutrophication and the plastic problem of water bodies should be minimised and new protection measures developed. President! The Centre also considers it important that water management plans should be able to extend the deadline for environmental objectives if improvements due to natural conditions are superior. However, it is very important to take care of the state of our waters. Finnish water expertise is of very high quality and it would be important to get solutions from such a blue bioeconomy to a world where there is a shortage of clean drinking water. Perhaps at this end, Mr President, the idea of leaving the farm in a better condition for the next generation than it has been given to it itself is also appropriate to this logic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u70	Mr President! Indeed, it is a government proposal to the Parliament to amend Article 20 of the Law on the Organisation of Water Management and Maritime Management and the Act on the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure. We will look at this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, but I would like to thank Mr Vestman for his excellent speech. Twenty years ago, when I joined politics, I borrowed Little Prince — I quote now. Representative Kivisaari, too, has just referred to the fact that the environment is not a gift from past generations, it is a gift from future borrowers, and in that sense it is important that, although we bear responsibility and talk a lot about climate policy and climate issues at the moment, it is just as important to take responsibility for water bodies as well. Last year we updated the environmental programme of the Convention, and its idea was that freedom needs to be accompanied by responsibility — responsibility for climate issues, responsibility for water bodies and responsibility for biodiversity. Mr President! In fact, funding has been promised during this government period for the recycling of nutrients and the circular economy and water systems, which of course also relate to the Baltic Sea. I thought that if it had been for the Environment Minister to be present, I would have asked more about these projects. Indeed, Finland is also responsible for this action by HELCOM, and while we are still in the presidency, I think that the Presidency is also able to influence these matters more, so it would have liked the Minister for the Environment to have raised these issues. But maybe we can go back to these things tomorrow. I have just remembered that tomorrow morning there will be a public hearing of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on 9.30 a.m. for Minister of the Environment Mikkonen, and then we will be able to return to these water issues as well, if the representatives wish to speak and ask questions. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u71	Mr President! This government proposal on the organisation of water management and maritime management is both important and to be welcomed that it is properly managed here. Finland is known to be a land of thousands of lakes, and we have a critical question of water protection and water status. In geographical terms, Finland is also an island, as if it were an island: we are surrounded by sea areas, in which case the management of the sea, the management of the waters, the management of the sea water is also important to us. This is, of course, a key issue for groundwater, as has been the case in previous speeches, and I would also like to remind you of the debate over the previous weeks on water plants and their public nature. Here it is wonderful that a popular movement has been established in Finland in favour of water systems being natural monopolies in nature, and they should be regarded as public institutions and not allow private business to be cashed in. We have bad, bad examples of it in many countries in the world, even in poor developing countries, that once water facilities have been privatised it has meant that water has become a commodity. And when it comes to money, so many poor people cannot afford water, and then diarrhea, diseases spread from contaminated water. This is a big, big question, and it is great that Finland has been able to act as a pioneer in this water protection in the world so far, and it follows. In this respect, the government's proposal is valuable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u72	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 2/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u73	Mr President! There is a report from the Administrative Committee on the Government's proposal to amend the Firearms Act, among other things. Again, it is mainly a question of amending the provisions on entry into force, because the police's electronic weapons information system has not been completed. Certain provisions on e-services would only enter into force after the introduction of the police weapons information system. Other changes to the Government proposal are mainly technical. The Arms Information System reform project has been significantly delayed and electronic transactions have not been possible. As a result, the date of application of the e-services provisions has also had to be postponed several times. This is the second time this season. As far as the previous report is concerned, last summer the Administrative Committee stated that there is no certainty that the system will be completed within that time frame. At the same time, the committee drew attention to the fact that the resources of the licensing administration of the police are limited in relation to the tasks required for the reform of the arms regime. The situation has not changed. The delivery agreement for the weapons information system enabling electronic services ended in summer 2019. According to the survey, CGI Finland was unable to supply the system. At the time of the previous Government proposal and at the latest in the related expert consultation, the Ministry must have known that the Arms Information System could not be completed by the beginning of March 2020. The committee therefore points out that the Ministry has a duty to ensure that the committee is given sufficient and reliable information in each case. The Administrative Committee will pay serious attention to the continuing delays in the completion of the Arms Information System and, more generally, to State ict procurement. It is important for contracting contracts to include sanctions against system suppliers, such as liability for possible shortcomings and delays in delivery. The total cost of the project is estimated to be between EUR 7 and 10 million over the next four years. Maintenance costs are estimated at between EUR 1 million and EUR 2 million per year. The committee stresses the need for a critical assessment of the costs of the system. A significant increase in the cost of supplies due to delays in the new system must not be an option. Mr President! The committee intervened in the notification obligation of the arms trader in the government's proposal. According to the explanatory memorandum, the implementation of the Directive will require a temporary solution before the completion of the new arms information system. This would, for example, be a protected e-mail sent by a trader to the police. According to a report received by the committee, arms traders are not able to carry out the legal obligation to notify using the current system. Temporary solutions include risks related to the security of arms, the legal security of the trader, the administrative burden of the police and costs. According to the Committee, it is more appropriate to postpone the start of e-services in this respect, too, until the new weapons information system is in place. The committee proposes to amend Article 25 of the Firearms Act on the entry into force of the 3rd Act. will not enter into force until 1 November 2020, by way of derogation from the proposal. In addition, the committee expects more information to be available on the implementation of the proposed interim solution before it can be definitively decided on. If a viable solution is not found before the date of entry into force proposed by the committee, the interim solution should not be introduced. The committee will request a written report on this matter by autumn 2020. The committee has also specifically requested further clarification on the implementation of the Directive in other Member States. According to the preliminary information we have received, the way in which the telecommunications connection provided for in the directive is implemented varies in other Member States as well. Comprehensive information on the implementation of the Directive in the various Member States should have already been included in the government proposal. Mr President! The committee therefore proposes the adoption of the Government's proposal, as amended, and also a statement to ensure the integrity and reliability of the Information System for Arms Security, the needs and legal security of traders and the integrity and reliability of the Information System for Arms. In addition, the committee calls on the government to submit a new proposal to postpone the entry into force from November onwards if this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u74	Mr President! The digital weapons information system and its development have lasted for years and years, and this, if anything, is causing great wonder. The committee's hearings also made it clear that there are points in favour of the fact that I am certainly not alone in wondering about this. As far as temporary solutions are concerned, I would see such temporary solutions completely excluded, because we now have to go to the finish line in such a way that one day there will be a well-functioning weapons information system. Before that, we cannot go out of business with it, because it brings problems. It would also be very important, when the weapons information system is sometimes hopefully completed, that it should be tested as long as possible and reliably, so that traders, for example, do not have a problem with the bugs that may have been brought about by a defective weapons information system and, as a result, different sanctions. As far as the costs are concerned, I would see that we must take particular care that the costs of the weapons information system should not under any circumstances be passed on to the arms licensing system. Arms licenses are already very expensive today, and if there is pressure, we should make sure that this does not happen. The EU Arms Directive was originally adopted to prevent terrorism. I still wonder, because it does not affect it in any way. These issues strike gun enthusiasts, gun-fighters and gun-gatherers, and do not have any effect on the prevention of terrorism. It's perfectly clear to all of us. If we look at the development that has been sought here, then it is positive when we finally have a functioning system. It'll make it a lot easier. But I would like to point out, and I add, that I cannot fail to add that this weapons information system, if it is processed in such a way as to look at the various ways in which it is used, is a good example of how modern technology can be used. There, for example, the performances of the shooting test can be shown directly from the application. I would see that, after a functioning weapons information system, this development could also be developed in cooperation, so that, for example, the performance of the paper-based test and the licence could be left on the home shelf, and everything could even be shown to the authorities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u75	Mr President! The chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Purra, presented the report of the Administrative Committee in a comprehensive manner, and I note from the requests to speak that the members of our committee have been activated to speak here, which is natural because the matter was dealt with in a very thorough manner in the Administrative Committee. I do not usually repeat what has already been said in the plenary debate, at least because I have so-called statements, but I would like a very brief quote from this report by our committee, the most important paragraph: ‘The regulation proposed at this stage of the committee is also proposed for the entry into force of Article 25 of the Ammunition Act. However, the committee proposes to amend Article 1 of the 3rd Act on the entry into force of Article 25 of the Firearms Act. will enter into force by way of derogation from the proposal of 1.11.2020. The police and the arms industry will then have more time to prepare for the entry into force of the change. However, the committee expects more information to be available on the implementation of the planned interim solution before its adoption can be definitively decided upon. If a viable solution is not found before the date of entry into force proposed by the committee, the interim solution should not be introduced. The committee will request a written report in accordance with Article 47(2) of the Constitution by autumn 2020 at the latest.’ That, in my opinion, is the point of the in-depth opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u76	Mr President! Indeed, the Firearms Act has already entered into force in 2012, and the aim has been – and of course still is – to enable us to carry out all this information and processing, which is made up of weapons and permits, and to process it electronically. Last season we passed the law and thought that now things are moving forward. It is indeed the second time that, as Mr Purra, the chairman of the Administrative Committee, pointed out in that presentation, these transitional provisions need to be put forward, and now it is said that a great deal of progress is being made, all of which is believed that this electronic service would only be possible in March 24. With regard to this situation, we have said that nothing can be done in this regard, delays are regrettable, and there is nothing more to learn from this process. The Administrative Committee also wanted to bring in these state ict procurements in general: hopefully we will have a better understanding of the customer and user orientation and usability there. And, as colleagues have pointed out, a written report on this will also be requested next autumn. On the other hand, it has been more than a week since we had a referral debate on this government proposal in this Chamber, so in that sense I can think, as Vice-President of the Committee on Administration, that we have been quick, but now these transitional provisions and consultations have been carried out in such a way that we have been able to deal with this within a week. In that respect, this supplemented government proposal would also come into force before March.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u77	Mr President! As has been heard from many members of the Administrative Committee, this matter was dealt with quickly and there was still a rare consensus on it. In fact, there are a few important points that I myself have drawn attention to. In other words, now that this issue goes into planning, it should be ensured that this interim solution in this weapons information system takes into account primarily the security of arms, the legal security of the trader, the administrative burden of the police and the risks associated with the increase in costs. And it is very important that this confusion, which can be called this issue, should not be paid for by innocents. And the innocent here are the hunters and the gun enthusiasts, which means that they must by no means be the ones to pay for this uproar. And of course, as my previous colleague has said, lessons must be learned from this, and what can be learned from this example is that this will not happen in the future. Whenever it comes to the development of electronic systems, things want to be delayed, that is, what we learn is that they will not be delayed in the future in this sad way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u78	Mr President! As the Vice-President of the Administrative Committee said there, this has indeed been discussed a week ago, but it is worth talking about more. Personally, I would like to continue to draw attention to the fact that it is very difficult to find out exactly why this system has been delayed so much. Why, first of all, is it so impossible to deliver it on a timetable, but also with a significant delay? Of course, it is a very big and demanding project and system. But why is it so demanding, especially in view of all the other kinds of ict projects in the state, which may not go as far as Strömsö. But in any case, the contract was terminated by the agreement between CGI Finland and the Finnish Police Board, and this company was paid a million euros. On the basis of the committee's consultations, something has been recovered from this money, but the amount is not clear and the new supplier has not yet been selected. The reform will increase and have already increased both costs and bureaucracy, and the total cost will be several million. As I said in the presentation of the report, it is estimated from the Ministry that, over four years, this actual project will go closer to EUR 10 million, including the police's own staff expenditure and then the maintenance costs of the systems, between EUR 1 and EUR 2 million per year, which will not necessarily be too large if the system works. But in any case, as many have already pointed out here, there is a great risk that these costs will be precisely dropped to the price of the customer. Currently, an application for a private person’s permit to acquire a property already costs EUR 90, regardless of the weapon or who is applying for it. Mr President! The committee's report is critical in relation to these ongoing delays and the preparation of legislation and the promotion of the project. Perhaps the main problem is the underlying directive or our own problems in these procurements of ict systems. However, as the committee also learned from the consultation on the implementation of this directive, for example, it does cause problems in a large number of Member States. In any case, it is clear that in Finland, e-services and digitalisation as an administrative facilitation or cost saver seem to be almost never realised, and problems with IT procurement are more of a rule than an exception. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the current government is constantly appealing to them, including through cost savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u79	Mr President! It is proposed to amend the Act amending the Act amending the Firearms Act, the Firearms Act and the Act amending the Act amending the Firearms Act, which entered into force in 19, as well as to repeal the Act amending the Act amending the Firearms Act in 18. — — — — That's a sentence. These are the reasons behind the delay in the police weapons information system project. Certain provisions on e-services would enter into force or apply only once the police weapons information system has been put in place. Technical amendments would mainly be made to the Firearms Act and the Ammunition Range Act. The laws are intended to enter into force on 1 March 2020. Mr President! The introduction of e-services requires a reform of the police weapons information system. According to the current assessment of the situation, the weapons information system will not be completed by then, and it is therefore proposed to amend the transitional period for the provisions once again to reflect the estimated time of completion of the changes to the information system. The Firearms Act and the Ammunition Line Act currently contain reference provisions that are no longer up-to-date after the amendment of the Firearms Act, which entered into force on 15 July 2019. It is therefore proposed to amend the references to the articles of law. In addition, it is proposed to amend the article on the notification of the firearms law and its individual data and the provision on the surrender notification. Mr President! The police government has assessed the cost of the weapons information system. The total cost of the project is estimated to be between EUR 7 and 10 million, as mentioned earlier. The police weapons information system has proved to be a demanding and time-consuming acquisition over the years. The provisions of the Arms Information System Directive amending the Arms Directive will contribute to the traceability of weapons. The current law, which is difficult to understand, requires clearer and up-to-date amendments. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u80	Mr President! This is where colleagues from the Administrative Committee have spoken well, but I was not able to take the floor myself. As a new Member of Parliament, of course, the whole content of the matter has been confusing and astonishing. Delays in matters and costs and state procurement skills are things that are of interest in this context. I would see, and I believe, that when state ict procurement and customer and contract know-how — on which matters the Administrative Committee will take a stand — are in order, we would also be able to avoid delays and avoid costs. Now, in this example, everything has gone wrong, so to speak. In other words, the word of warning, if something positive is to be found here, is that the damage could become wise, that is, that we would no longer run into the next and future supplier of the weapons information system being something that would not be able to meet this challenge. Whether we can get into this kind of situation then remains to be seen, but things like this cannot become that talk about the millions that are being paid for, so to speak, wasted when a journalist is unable to perform his obligations. These are mostly my thoughts. And then, of course, what has been mentioned here is that when costs increase, it would seem unreasonable for the cost to be borne by arms dealers, or, if not worse, by the fact that customers and applicants for an arms licence would be the ones who would then suffer as increased charges.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u81	Mr President! As an active shooting enthusiast and hunter, I'd like to say this much: The committee's opinion as such is extremely good. They have drawn attention to the issues where the problem has been, and it must be said, as a hobbyist, that there has been considerable preparation for this matter. As the members of the committee have said here, they have acted quickly. It would therefore be extremely desirable for this to continue, in the next instance, to move forward quickly and precisely so that these costs do not pass on to users. The price of arms permits has already risen very much over the years, and it always goes out of the pocket of the amateur or merchants. As Mr Peltokangas has well pointed out, the system should be developed specifically in the direction of the user to be friendly, i.e. to obtain, for example, weapons licences there. The own game system, which really does not have to carry permits there in the forest. It's quite expensive when you're going to renew the permits, if for one reason or another they fall into the woods and go to waste, and again they're paid for nothing. I hope that this system will be put in order and user-friendly. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u82	Mr President! In the past, I was specifically on a police mission to deal with these arms licensing issues, and this is a shocking situation, however, of how badly this issue of the weapons information system has been dealt with in the Police Board. I hope that it will finally come into force and work in November. However, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, even if the weapons information system were to work, the personnel size of the police's licence is currently so inadequate that it does not work, even if the weapons information system does not work, if there are no people there to deal with these matters, and yet we still have to go to the police to present the weapons that we want to obtain through this weapons information system. That is what I would like to draw attention to. Human resources are very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u83	Mr President! I would also like to take part in this debate, when this was now started by extending the chairman of our committee more generally to digitalisation, and there was a small thorn in the fact that the current government believes in digitalisation. I have the impression that the last 30 years in Finland have been such that governments have believed in digitalisation, and we have excellent examples, such as taxation and many others, where much less personal work than in the past can be done with much more numerical and other important issues. In my own experience, which is not very small in these matters — which also means that I have seen poorly functioning systems but also very well-functioning systems — the question is usually that the definitions have not been considered at the outset. As if ‘calling on the war’,these informationsystemsare being madeand then it has been pointed out that at leastthe money that I fully agree with all the speeches that have been made here that, after all, this is a matter of purchasing between EUR 8 and 10 million. Of course, it is a lot of money, but the bigger the problem is that even the system of magnitude over these years has not been put in place. But I would very much like to refer this matter back to the definition that what is actually desired and what is realistic in what timescale to achieve what is at what cost.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u84	Mr President! There have been high-quality and substantial speeches here, and I think we can agree that this has gone into a tangle and a tangle. Among other things, Mrs Huru made a good speech on this. Sometimes it's just like that. Still, things need to move forward and act and develop in such a way that they sometimes come to a reasonable conclusion. President! As a member of Mr Huttunen's Administrative Committee, I believe that it is essential in the future to take into account primarily the security of arms, the legal security of traders in general and the administrative burden on the police and all the risks associated with this increase in costs, as presented by Mr Peltokangas, for example, and, in my opinion, in the alternative, that Finland will not be able to implement this EU weapons directive to the full extent within this time limit, which actually went by.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u85	Mr President! I wasn't so prepared, so I was on the safety, but now I took it off. And I must say that to all this whole, which Mrs Huru also raised, it is also that when we have this licensing authority, which is a police officer, I must sadly say, as a hundred people, that Poha has made decisions that have closed our offices, even though we in Satakunta have just as much as in south-west Finland, and more, there are weapons inspection activities, then unilaterally officials have been transferred to the south-west of Finland. We have the Huittinen office closed, we in Kankaanpää and Pori have narrowed the times, which means that whoever has the weapon and wants to act in accordance with its order, according to the law, and that is to be checked, will have to drive, plan and spend more on higher costs. We in this system should be able to ensure that we are also on an equal footing on a regional level, and we cannot have the police authorities making coercive decisions so that one province is left, as it were, in the middle of a tirdo. And I am prepared to protest a little about this, and in that sense this debate has been good, and I too am, because if I had not been here, I would not know so much again, even though I have one. But thank you for a good and competent debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u86	The 12th item in the order of business is presented in part to the only, partly to the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 1/2020 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u87	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u88	Mr President! This story began on May 6, 2019. I parked my car in the parking lot of the Kallio office building. I rushed to a conference meeting at the office building. I ran quickly to the guards to see if I had to pay the security fee, because there's an official meeting here. He said, "Yes, I do." I ran to the meter line and paid six euros for an hour and a half and put a parking slip in my car. The meeting lasted only an hour and fifteen minutes, and I came to the parking lot in good time to pick up my car, and that was the parking fee. Suddenly I ran to the other corner of the parking lot where I saw this representative of ParkiPate, and I asked: What a surprise, you saw that I had paid it EUR 6 and I have come in good time to get my car off. He said, "Yes, I did. Well, what's the problem? You had attached this parking receipt to the windshield wiper of your car. I said, "What if I had a convertible and couldn't have put it on the dashboard, as you are now demanding? He said, "I'm sure you didn't have a convertible." Unfortunately, I had to agree to this. On the other hand, I did not agree at all to the parking reminder which he was in no way prepared to compromise and moderate or reflect on these options. That's why I wrote to ParkiPate that this payment reminder is weird and I have proven to have paid the parking fee. I received a number of letters from Mrs Susanne during that June, and one of those letters contained this reference: ‘The monitoring fee is maintained in accordance with the decision of the Court of Justice. Payments made retrospectively shall not be accepted.’ I'm not sure if I was doing it afterwards, because he was there and I immediately saw the situation. Congressman Satonen told me when he came into this bill, his own story, where he parked his car in his own parking lot. At that moment, there was no note visible, which perhaps should have been visible somewhere, that it was his own parking lot, and it was not good enough, because afterwards he could no longer justify that this is my own parking lot and I am sure I have the right to keep my car parked in this own parking lot. Since Susanne is strict, ex post payments are not accepted. We had this correspondence. With Susanne for quite a long time, and she just said in this way, one quote for correspondence: “You have rebutted. You have not put forward any acceptable arguments. If you are dissatisfied with the solution you have reached, we ask you to express your discontent in writing. Only written expressions of discontent made by post or through a complaint system can be taken into account. We will take recovery action on this matter.” Well, that's what I was actually hoping for. After that, we had an in-depth discussion with the collection office from June to July, and I received three reminders of payment, and I said that it would be good to stop playing this game, because I will not pay for this anyway, but I hope that this will go to the district court — now you are deliberately pulling this price up. On 30 July, I received a message from KTC Finland Oy, which is therefore a collection agency, signed by Mr Juha-Peka, Customer Service — that is to say, Mrs Susanne, in that earlier letter: ‘As a matter of fact, our contractor will consider continuing to pursue the proceedings. Referral to the Court of Justice shall always entail substantial costs which, as a general rule, shall be borne by the unsuccessful party. The liability case may also result in a harmful default marking.’ Well, I know that a lot of citizens at this stage are starting to sweat their pants at the latest, they are starting to freak out and they are already making payments of more than 100 euros, which I already had when these reminders were made — but I was hoping that this would go to the district court. I actually prayed in the evening prayers that I could now go to the district court. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that my wish was not fulfilled. It wasn't filled. The matter itself came to a happy decision, for guess what: I think I am one of the few Finnish citizens who has received a personal letter from the Managing Director of ParkkiPate Oy. Christian Metsäranta, Managing Director of ParkiPate, writes; long is a letter, long and thorough, but the most essential message is this: ‘Your registration fee is processed and approved. The supervisory fee has been cancelled. We regret the delayed decision to accept the claim. The fee written on the vehicle has been incorrect.’ Thank you, Christian Metsäranta, for this valuable letter. At last, I was able to talk to a person, not Susanne or Juha-Pekka or anyone else special who would appeal to the article. But, ladies and gentlemen, one thing had happened in the middle: four days earlier, 13 December 2019 — this letter was received from the Managing Director of ParkiPate on 17 December 2019 — 122 MPs had taken a bill, and it was handed over to that parliamentary office, and it was publicly available. So I would like to thank you 122 Members of Parliament for saving more than EUR 100 money, and now we are in the situation, ladies and gentlemen, that I hope that you will also save the other citizens from these similar processes, where they are caught — including Mr Satonen and so on. This highly private supervision, which I use as a term for fines, the practice of parking charges, has led to the incredible situation that this has become a financial instrument. When the result of these parking companies is based on the fact that they get as much fine as possible, we are citizens in a situation where we cannot require reasonable consideration. We don't have it. As in my case, it was only when you 122 Members of Parliament came to this in public, that Metsäranta, this CEO, fell and said that this solution was wrong. Unfortunately, other citizens cannot do this. In this respect, this lack of fairness has made business out of this sort of public task, which is a parking control, and this is driven by an excessive number of cases where citizens feel that they are not being listened to, are being intimidated, a situation is created where they prefer to get away with it so that they do not go through this expensive district court process and then perhaps even make the money they have accumulated in order to get ahead with it. This has become an exceptionally easy business subject, in which foreign operators have also invested. Now the majority of these parking companies are owned by foreign venture investors. It's so good. It's so good. [Aki Lindén’s interlude] This bill is based on the idea that parking supervision should be a public task. This bill does not originate from the fact that private operators in this sector should not act, but if they do, they will then operate under the authority of municipalities or public authorities, so that the result of the company does not depend on how many people they punish, how many people are milked. This is the essence of thinking. This bill has set out a model for how to get rid of this issue, but I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs can take a free look at what is the most natural way that these complaint practices can be better dealt with, i.e. that it would have such a normal administrative complaint path and not a district court, that it would be reasonable to consider this and that the rules of the game would be clear across Finland. Now we have the situation that in many cases there are different interpretations of parking supervision in different parts of Finland. I have a number of examples of this from the Automobile Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u89	Mr President! This story by Mr Kiljunen is very educational, and it shows that threats and extortion are used in private parking companies. I must admit that I did sign this bill for that other reason, I did not know about your personal difficulties with the company in question. This bill for amending the law on parking supervision is worthy in many ways and it addresses the real problem, just as Mr Kiljunen there strongly testified. The current situation with regard to private parking supervision is in many respects like the Wild West. A number of problems have been caused by incomplete or interpretative signs. For example, when parking with parking permits, there have been many shortcomings in my own province of Central Finland. Complaints about the bill have been made complicated and difficult. The legal security of citizens is unclear. There are no common rules of the game, and justice and fairness will not come true. Some citizens pay fines or these bills even if they should not. The fee is paid because it is the easiest way to get rid of the matter. On the other hand, some people don't pay, even if they do. In the long run of a fallen error payment, it may eventually be that the bill will not have to be paid in the end. The principle of fairness and fairness, as Mr Kiljunen said, will not be the case when parking charges are imposed. This is not how parking supervision should go in Finland. Mr President! The Constitutional Committee has considered that the imposition of an administrative sanction involves a significant exercise of public authority within the meaning of Article 124 of the Constitution. On the other hand, however, the Supreme Court stated in the preliminary ruling that it was not the exercise of authority but a contract which would make the parking tickets issued by private parking companies valid. This situation shows that the overall picture is very unclear. Mr President! There would also be room and need for private supervision in Finland, just as was said here earlier, under the authority of a municipal operator, for example, and in such a way that the income logic is not based on how many of these bills are issued. But now these private parking companies themselves have created this situation in which stricter regulation of the sector is being discussed here today in Parliament and hopefully will continue to do so. Cashing and greed are not suited to the considerable exercise of public authority. We need a clearer overall picture of parking control, in which fairness and fairness are realised. We need better regulation and transparency in this sector. And, Mr President, we also need justice and moderation in the area of parking control.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u90	Mr President! The story was very good and enlightening. When Mr Kiljunen took this bill, he might have been able to tell even more about it already when he was doing the bill and collecting names for it, it might open up even more for all of us. [Heckling] But I think there is one thing that has not yet been mentioned for some reason, what is the complaint about parking charges in general. When we were set at a price of 250 euros to take to the district court, the appeal against parking charges, the unfair and incorrectly imposed charges to the district court collapsed completely. It is quite risky to leave for an error payment of seven or fifty when you have to put two hundred and fifty on the counter. Perhaps at this stage we should take into account that we must now, as Mrs Kiljunen has done, use the card that the risk is also on the other side that will inherit it if it does not grow it so much through the collection agency that the business is profitable through many inheritances, unless the person disputes it immediately and wants the release of the district court, so that the debts will certainly not be taken to the district court when it costs two hundred and fifty also to him.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u91	Mr President! I have to say here that, with private parking supervision, I do not have the kind of experience that Mr Kiljunen and Mr Kiljunen have had, but I have signed this bill for reasons of principle. The granting of private parking supervision by a decision of the Supreme Court has led to an unacceptable situation for motorists, which is testing the public's sense of justice. It would be good if, in all situations, only the authorities and not private companies had the right to parking supervision, as big a private business supporter as I am. In my opinion, parking control is typical of official activity. I am in favour of this bill because private parking supervision can cause a lot of problems and lead to the fact that the system is certainly not being seen as fair. The merit logic of private parking supervision is, in many cases, that parking error charges are written as much as possible regardless of reasonableness.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u93	Mr President! This bill is to be welcomed in principle, and the need for this stems from these abuses of private parking supervision which have also been brought up in this debate. They have not been sufficiently addressed, and it has brought about the fulfillment of human standards. In the opinion of the public, contract law has been stretched too far by a decision of the Supreme Court. That is not reasonable, because the signatories of the agreement are not equal here. The private citizen is at risk of high collection costs and even loss of credit data. It is possible that the considerations put forward after this initiative has come to the debate about the excessive rigour of the draft law could be justified to some extent and that the implementation of the text as such could lead to unreasonableness on the other side — it cannot be so much that private space can be parked in any way — but I do see that this problem, which we are trying to address, exists. The fact that more than a hundred Members of Parliament have signed the initiative proves this. Whether the initiative as it stands leads to a change of law or not, in any case, sends a message to the committee dealing with this initiative, and to the government, it is clear: private parking supervision needs to be regulated more closely, taking greater account of the legal protection of citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u94	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen said earlier in his speech that what is not fair and reasonable cannot be a law, and I entirely agree with that. I myself have also fought a kind of fight for the billing of these private parking supervisors and for the way in which it can be tackled afterwards. That's really hard to try to make any changes to it. True, it may be fair to say that it has not always been so easy to have a conversation with a public parking overseer if any changes have been made. However, I myself did not sign this bill. I wonder whether it might be too drastic, however, if private parking controls were to be banned altogether. In a certain way, moderation is what we are seeking here, and I hope that, when the Committee on Legal Affairs takes up this matter, consideration will be given to the way in which legislation could define what it is to be reasonable and what it is to pay a reasonable fee for parking and what kind of costs it may entail for a person to go for his own right. The second question that I was asking myself, when I did not sign it, was Article 124 of the Constitution, according to which a public administrative function may be entrusted outside the administrative machinery if it is necessary for the proper performance of the task. I myself wonder that if such a bill now goes through, what consequences will it have for other authorities that have been handed over to a private operator? I don't want this to be a precedent. I am really sorry that the parking control companies are doing this, and I hope that they will now take this debate on board and realise that if this bill is not passed this time, it is entirely possible that it will be in the future. They should now understand that they are, as it were, on a trial period right now. It is absolutely necessary to review this matter after a time and see what changes have been made by the parking control companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u95	Mr President! Thank you, fellow Member Kimmo Kiljunen, not only for the excellent case report, but also for the activity he showed in collecting signatures from us here for this important bill. I'm one of the signatories. Just briefly, I would like to take part in this debate only by listening to him say that I noticed many analogues to other sectors, but I am not going to extend the debate to them. There are areas, things here in public power and in service production, where unscrupulous private profit-making, maximum returns and, for example, the active participation of international venture investors are producing what this example, described by Kimmo Kiljunen, has just described. I think it would be excellent if this bill also led to a change in legislation in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u96	Mr President! I certainly do not thank you yet, because the Member of Parliament, who was the 100th signatory, has not yet spoken and I am waiting for her to speak. I think you were in this voice a moment ago, maybe you heard his voice. Mr President! Once again, a few comments: to Mr Lindén, the fact that I actually made the effort to sign more than a hundred Members of Parliament because of the fact that this house has the weary, the practice that if you have less than a hundred signatures, these legislative initiatives will be forgotten there at the bottom of the committee's bill pile. It is also useful — and I hope that the Council of Presidents will now monitor it to some extent — that, at least when the 100 signatures are received, they will be dealt with, the idea has been, in parallel with the government's proposals, and that they will be taken as seriously as the government's proposals, much as the citizens' initiatives are being dealt with here. That is why it was seen that the matter was actually being dealt with, and I hope — unfortunately, the chairman of the Legal Committee is not here now — that they will prioritize in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I understand the priorities of the government's proposals, but I hope that this will be one of those that are on the table, because here, as well as being clear about the will of the Parliament, a strong majority believes that something should be done if it is not directly as it is proposed in the bill, something should be done — that a clear majority of the people will certainly experience shortcomings in their legal protection, so much embittered messages have come here. I would say, almost as a psychological analysis, that there are few professions I would not like to pursue. There has been talk here of carers, nurses' measurements and their pay levels and problems. What I have comforted these nurses has been that you have low wages and high pressures, but at least when you leave your work, you have such a feeling that you have done good today. You've given some people something. It may not be perfect, you have had shortcomings, you have not succeeded fully, but you have done good. I am not quite sure about this job as a Member of Parliament, that when we return home today, is there a feeling that the good things have been done? But the parking supervisor is certainly in such a situation, in an unpleasant profession, that when he writes a ticket, although it is justified by the fact that there is now a violation of the road traffic law, there is a problem here and there, this is a legitimate punishment, he knows that when the recipient comes to that place in a moment, there is a negativeness in the atmosphere and a lot, and sometimes it is a very frustrated negative. Mr President! It is also known that even aggressive arrangements have arisen in which such civil hatred becomes uncontrollable, which is even a little threatening for parking supervisors. In this respect, this profession is not rewarding. We have other professions of this kind, which are difficult, but here in particular there is this difficulty. And when it goes so far, for this public authority use, why do I look at parking control, so when it comes to the exercise of public authority and when it comes to this inaction of moderation, when it turns into business, then there is an even greater sense of indecentness, an aggressive feeling in people: you are now robbing me quite unreasonably of money in a situation where there is a minute's delay or someone has gone to charge the phone in order to pay that parking fee and comes back, it is two minutes gone and he had a fine right there, even though he did not have cash and the card was not there and he had to do it through the phone, the battery had gone empty and he genuinely followed the situation. No, no, no, no. There are so many of these miserable examples. One of the big problems with this parking control is that this legislation is not precise. The Automotive Federation has carried out a survey of, for example, municipal practices on how parking supervision is carried out. The same regulation, the same rules, such as four-hour parking, from eight to 16: how do you do when a car driver takes his car to it at 15 o’clock and the car is still there the next day? How does that count? Is it between 3:00 and 4:00 a.m., and then you have to take that car out by 11 or 12 o'clock, or what's the policy? And between municipalities these vary — between municipalities these vary. Similarly, parking overseers may have very different guidelines in different areas, as in this area, at the Kallio office building where I was. I should have gone to read that this payment reminder has to be put on the dashboard. It reads there in a long text, which is a huge memo that should be read. There's one thing, yeah, put it on the dashboard. The scream left it unread, was in a hurry for the meeting, and the error payment was clear. And they vary by parking lot. This should at least lead to consistent practices and similar interpretations in all situations. At least that would improve the sense of legal certainty that this is. Similarly, traffic signs in these matters are often so unclear and difficult to interpret that it is not known whether it is a motorhome, whether it is a passenger car or whether it is a van, whether it can be put on it. There is sometimes an error fee and sometimes not when those interpretations are sought. This is such a huge swamp that is unclear, and yet these sanctions, even though they are small in such relative terms, are great at the moment they come. It is a pleasant evening meal with a wife in a good restaurant that you lose with payment, and for a normal citizen, between 60 and 80 euros is a big money. In this respect, it would seem appropriate that this issue should now be clearly addressed and the rules of the game set up in such a way that they are consistent, clear and understandable. By doing so, it would also improve the position of parking overseers and the sense of the task.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u97	Mr President! I should like to thank the representative for his colorful and very informative speeches. Personally, when I do not know all the details at this point, I cannot help but think or perhaps ask — it may be that Mr Kiljunen is the most concerned here — that if this private activity were to leave the market or come, as I understood from Mr Kiljune’s speeches, a little like a public service, what effect would it have on the public sector, or the municipalities? I therefore mainly wonder whether the municipalities have such resources, i.e. human resources, financial resources for a change in the system, and, of course, here in general, I also wonder what the cost impact would be on the functioning of the municipalities. If there is an opportunity for a representative to respond to this, I would like to thank you for that. But, in my view, the crucial question here is that we should not impose any additional burden on the functioning of both the financial and human resources of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u98	Mr President! As Mr Kivisaari has said here, this is a very complicated matter. And, as Mr Kiviranta said, he is a supporter of private entrepreneurship, but he nevertheless signed this initiative, I have done the same thing here, that is to say, I am one of the signatories to this initiative. In the period 11 to 15, Katainen's government programme already mentioned that private parking supervision was governed by law. Then that initiative did not move forward. As I see it, the main task of this initiative now is to stimulate this debate and to set out precisely to clarify these practices now, as has been said many times here. In other words, if we go to a parking lot and there's a long line of people reading that meter machine that has many different car park stickers and has phone numbers and there's cell phone help instructions, and there's a receipt and an ATM, and whatever it is, it's a very confusing practice. I myself am sitting here in the Chamber, not only listening with interest to this debate, but also as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and I will then be dealing with this matter there in committee. Surely there is a need for clarification on this issue. I therefore hope that there will be an in-depth debate on this matter and, as my colleague has just said, all these different aspects will be taken into account, that what is the sensible way forward? That is also how I understood from the author of the initiative that there is also a need for this debate and for seeking out how to put these good practices in place in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u99	Mr President! Thank you to Mrs Kiljunen for the legislative initiative and, in fact, to all colleagues for a good debate. I think that there have been excellent points of view here, and many speakers have pointed out that this private parking control requires, if not a complete ban, at least stricter regulation of controls and also better monitoring of operations. These shortcomings, which have been raised today and which I am sure we all have had over the years, give cause for this. As the previous speaker has pointed out, the subject is not entirely new, and we certainly need our own law to regulate this. One of the questions I have left to ask myself — I am the 100th signatory to this bill — is whether rural communities or smaller cities, for example, can manage this in a sensible way, as a public authority. Perhaps then a solution could be found in more stringent private parking supervision that is regulated and supervised. In fact, we are in this situation at the moment: I once asked the police in the rural community when the cars were parked incorrectly, that why you do not intervene in these, they said that they cannot write parking tickets if the municipality has not made a decision on parking controls. So they didn't interfere with parking bans on the side of the street, they just came by to point out that you shouldn't park here. This is, of course, another amazing question in my opinion: that in rural municipalities no parking controls would then be taken care of and interfered with, for example, on the rescue roads or other prohibited places for those parked in the car. Mr President! I personally hope that this issue will now be taken extremely seriously. This is well over a hundred Members of Parliament who have signed it. It tells us that we need to clarify legislation, sharpen it, improve it, including better control. Is it the end result of a total ban on private parking supervision? I myself am still somewhat open to this, even though I signed the bill. My own signature, above all, underlined the need to tackle these shortcomings and, in part, even the grisly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u100	Mr President! The signatures of 122 MPs tell their own story on the subject under discussion. There is a great deal of diversity in parking supervision and, from the citizen's point of view, the penalty for parking errors is too often understood as a fine that it is not, but rather a parking charge, a completely different matter. I've been working law enforcement for 20 years, and in that operation, the police have discretion. When a citizen is guilty of an offence, the police must take full account of circumstances and factors affecting the situation and apply not only many principles but also the principle of reasonableness. On these grounds, the police have the right and the opportunity to waive a penalty, which is very often a fine, if the circumstances so require. Unfortunately, this does not happen very much in the area of parking control, and this causes a great deal of discontent and injustice to the citizens and often suffer from treatment. From experience, I can tell you that when a citizen understands his mistakes, he also accepts the consequences. Too often, however, the situation is different, and it is not in anyone’s interest. Let's give a fine to whoever gets a fine, that's the old wisdom of the police, and if you follow it, you can go a long way. And it may well apply to this point too: a parking fee will be paid to the person to whom the parking fee is due.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u101	Mr President! A few comments on these comments. Firstly, this speech by Mr S.H.I.E.L.D., which was the last one, was at the very heart of what I had at the time of this bill. In other words, when public authority is exercised, the public authority, such as the police, has discretion in this regard, and he considers that reasonableness in view of the situation. Where such use of public authority, such as a parking charge, is in private hands and the profits of this private company depend directly on the amount of the fine, the discretion is distorted. That's when there's no moderation, just like in my case. It was only after this process became this way that I received a letter from the CEO that this was wrong and that it was cancelled. Normally, at least as the people say, there is no way to change them in practice, there is only this legal process then ultimately. So that lack of moderation is the very essence of this, and that is why I would start off with the very fact that this should be a public exercise of power, it will be identified, and even if private individuals do — a municipality or someone else could entrust it — then, in principle, those principles would be as public authority does and the result of its private company would not depend on how much fined but on how much parking control works and will be monitored. That's the important point. This is where Mr Kivisaari asked me how much it costs, what is the situation now, whether I can judge them. I have no information on this except that I had this conversation with the Automobile Union. I have the information from the City of Vantaa that now that the City of Vantaa has improved its parking controls, it is clearly a very productive sector in the Vantaa budget. In other words, what the City of Vantaa invests in parking control resources will come back. That is the extent to which motorists are guilty of these mistakes, which is actually a productive sector. It could therefore not be so profitable for these private companies either if there were no clear expectations of return. That this is the only estimate. It may be that, then, in rural areas with fewer populations, the problem may then be this cost burden on municipalities. I don't know how to judge it, but I'll have to look at it. Yes, I think we all have an agreement on this, we do not necessarily want private business to get out of this, but the fact that it is seen as a public exercise of power is the key issue here. Mr Huttunen also asked about these mixed practices. I would like to make an additional point on that point. It is not an equal situation that we have a huge table of different guidelines in those parking areas. We have cars on foreign license plates, or even foreign people who can't get the heavenly one to tell us what it says, what it requires. There is no hope at all that they will do the right thing. By the way, I do not know that when cars on foreign plates are fined, whether or not they are being monitored. We have plenty of Estonian cars in the capital region, for example, we have a lot of Russian cars here, and so on, there is a very natural way of dealing with them — so how do we treat them here? Here, too, private citizens feel that there is a shortage of equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u102	Mr President! At the very last minute, I rushed to this Chamber to support this excellent and, in the opinion of many citizens, also a very important bill. It seems that there has already been a wide-ranging debate on the content of the initiative and on the problem itself, namely the running away from the private parking control business. What is essential here is that the relationship between the exercise of public authority and the exercise of private power is problematic, and in many areas of our society this same debate is taking place, which is now linked to this fine, to the imposition of a parking fee, and I think it is quite clear that when such public power is exercised it must be in public hands. My own concern relates to the fate of the countryside. Of course, it is quite clear that in a large part of Finland’s municipalities in rural areas parking controls are not carried out in practice. In my own municipality in Saarijärvi, a car from out of town is recognized by the fact that it has a parking disc in the window, when locals do not use such fineties much when there is no parking control and there is no need to do so when there are plenty of parking spaces available. But I believe that, when this matter is to be dealt with, it is also possible to write the law in such a way that it takes into account differences between municipalities and local conditions. I don't think that would be a problem. But I believe that the bill is extremely welcome, and in many ways these contradictions, which have arisen, could be dealt with and resolved by this kind of new regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u103	Mr President! I myself know from a police point of view how difficult this initiative by Mr Kiljune is. I have signed it myself, because it is quite unclear how much these private parking companies, for example, train these people with regard to their knowledge of parking controls. After all, a police officer can write a parking fee in a public area. A municipal parking supervisor may enter a parking fee in a public area. In Tampere, for example, some local parking supervision has also entered into contracts for private areas, and I myself find it a big problem, for example, in Tampere, such private parking supervision — without mentioning the name — of the parking company. It is all right if you park in a private apartment building yard, for example, on a way out of here, which is a way out of here, but then when you go to these posts, and if there is a certain kind of tag or something missing, you put a parking fee directly on it, and Mr Kiljunen mentioned what construction site is trying to get it cancelled. In that sense, if we do not want to ban this completely now, it certainly requires proper training and increased knowledge for these people who are supervising parking in private parking companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-18-ps-8.u104	Mr President! Representative Mr Niemi raised another important point: this type of training. I would add its uniform rules so that it is also easy to train, that we know what is required for everyone to have the same understanding of the situation. In that example, I also raised the problem of these companies, that it is strange that the names that interact with the citizens are made strong complaints, strong claims are made, and we get letters from ParkiPate Susanne all the time. Mrs Susanne writes, and the collection office has Juha-Pekka, an agent who writes. After all, this is a strange situation that we are going to have to go to Juha-Pekko's and Susannie and I are having this kind of legal conversation about whether or not I have legal protection here. So this would now be such a minimum practice that there would be natural interaction between people, between institutions also, and not behind such nicknames. President! Perhaps I wanted to take the last speech here — and I hope it will be the last one, I tried to do it — and thank you all. It's been a really good conversation. We have come to an understanding behind this. I very much hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs will deal with this. Now, however, we are all in a court of law with the acidity of having to put this matter in order and Parliament could now show its own will that positive processes can also be carried forward through the legislative initiatives of the MP. Above all, thank you to the 122 who signed it and also to those who did not sign it, but have raised their views in this debate, because we need all these views behind us, that there should be such consensus so that it will then satisfy both us legislators and the nation as a whole.
