ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Culture must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Before the beginning of the debate, two plenary sessions will be held today. The information must have reached the representatives. The second plenary session will begin at 5 p.m. and will then return to the issue of the regulations relating to the Emergency Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u2	Mr President! The purpose of this Government bill is to implement the European Union Regulation on Clinical Trials at national level, and to this end it is proposed to adopt a new law on clinical trials, which would regulate the issues required and possible to be regulated at national level by the EU Regulations. This bill has already been the subject of statements during the previous government, and now partly again, and it can be said that this law has been done carefully and will change the treatment of clinical trials by the authorities and the processing of ethical referrals more straightforwardly and quickly, and will clarify and rationalise the division of responsibilities between, for example, the main Finnish researcher and the sponsor. Clinical medicine research is really important, the fact that we in Finland are able to do it, and all the measures that can be taken to make it smoother are, of course, welcome. Here are some points that deserve attention: For example, when evaluating these studies, they are assessed in relation to our medical records system and according to treatment practices that they are suitable for this Finnish society. Then too: this medical research ethics committee must take into account the fact that there is sufficient medical expertise, particularly important for example in clinical trials where medical expertise is always in use when medical studies are carried out in patients. And then I would like to take the point that when academics and universities and university hospitals do research, they should be exempt from the fees, because it is reasonable, because they are doing the important research on a very small budget anyway. Even in such current cases of infection, the importance of research is recognised, so we should also try to reduce the costs for them, and this exemption from this fee would be one important thing in which we could support our researchers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u3	Mr President! The purpose of this proposal is to implement internationally the European Union Regulation on Clinical Trials. To this end, it is proposed to introduce a new law on clinical trials, which would, as a general rule, provide for the issues required by the EU Regulation and the possibility for national regulation. The proposal proposes the creation of a new National Medical Research-Ethical Commission, which would be responsible for the ethical evaluation of all clinical trials conducted in Finland. In the context of this change, the current National Medical Research Ethics Commission would cease to operate in its current form. In addition, the law would provide, inter alia, for the assessment of the application for clinical trials, for informed consent and for the competence of the Centre for Safety and Development in the pharmaceutical sector, in accordance with the national margin allowed by the Regulation. Mr President! When could it be such an important moment to discuss the clinical trial as it is today? The Corona virus epidemic is a very good example of how critical health care and the functioning of society are about vaccines and medicines. New vaccines and new treatments should be continuously developed to overcome diseases. Mr President! Clinical trial refers to an intervention study in man to investigate the effects of the medicine in humans or the absorption, distribution, metabolism or excretion of the medicinal product in the human body. We have just heard that there is no vaccine for coronavirus infection, but it has just been reported in America, for example, that clinical trials have been started there in connection with the development of vaccination. 45 healthy adults have received a test drug and it is hoped and expected that possibly vaccination with coronavirus will be developed as soon as possible. Clinical research is very expensive and it is therefore important that we do everything we can to make it possible. The purpose of this law is that Finland will also remain an attractive country for clinical medicine research. In administrative processes, it is appropriate to seek close cooperation and thus efficiency and appropriate use of resources. This law provides for the establishment of a new National Medical Research Ethics Commission. What on earth is that ethics in clinical research? It protects the rights and health of those involved in research. The subject has the right to decide voluntarily after obtaining an understandable explanation of the investigation. The researcher, on the other hand, plays a key role in communicating information and respecting the rights of the subject. Clinical trial is always associated with risks, unexpected adverse events and hazards. It is very important to define the ways, objectives, methods and limits of research to protect the integrity, rights and health of those involved in research. Mr President! This bill also deals with the situation of people with disabilities, minors and 15-year-olds and whether they can participate in the study. This bill has been supplemented by a better consideration of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities since the consultation. Mr President! There is something to think about in this proposal, and I am sure that we will be better informed there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health when we hear experts. The main potential challenges and problems I would see are the administrative burden of EU regulation and the adequate resources of the National Ethics Review Commission, the practical implementation of electronic consent, consent on behalf of minors or underprivileged persons, the obtaining of sufficient expertise in administrative courts for dealing with appeals and the creation of a medical research control function in Fimea, for which legislative preparation is not yet underway. The proposal states that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has not at present launched an active study on supervisory regulation under the Research Act, and this will certainly arise in the discussions there. I think it is very important that we also talk about clinical trials and about increasing numbers of people in the world getting the medicine when the time comes. I very much hope that as soon as possible these too will be taken into account. Studies in America show results and we also get vaccination for coronavirus infection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u4	Mr President! I was thinking at first of all to say that ‘two good colleagues’, or shall I say ‘two colleagues should In this context, I myself thought I would be brief, because we probably have the greatest interest at the moment in these challenges in the near future. But this is a very important whole, and when I have this paper version in my hand, it is closer to 300 pages of government proposal. After all, we are now significantly changing the law on medical research, which is twenty years old — although several changes have been made along the way — and we are introducing a completely new law on clinical trials, and then this will have repercussions on the pharmaceutical law and criminal law. In this law, clinical trials are concerned with the implementation of the EU directive. Let me briefly draw attention to five points here. The first relates to the relationship between the individual and the community: in other words, what are the rights of the individual, which, of course, are always primary, but then there is the benefit of the community, which ultimately serves all individuals. That's what we've been trying to adjust. The second point is that of informed consent, which is used in English as the term informed consent. In this regard, Mr Juvonen referred, for example, to a vaccine study on news sources. For example, it is precisely in such a way that those who have agreed to the study need to be well aware of what they have gone into if they have gone into it. This is an important question. The third point is the ethical committees and, therefore, the national direction here. So far, we have had nine ethics committees in special care, university hospitals, five of which have been in HUS, and then in smaller university hospitals there have been one in each. After all, they have dealt with a large number of these research permits and research plans. I saw in my own work that it was a very laborious and resource-intensive but very important issue. The fourth issue is data protection — which, of course, will become more and more important as a result of digital data transmission — and the fifth is, of course, linked to the growth strategy for health that has already been established by several previous governments, which has also been mentioned in the current Government Programme of Prime Minister Marin. We believe that in this way, Finnish pharmaceutical research will also be able to generate significantly more benefits for our economy when we get these things right. This will certainly get a careful and well-founded reading in the committees, and I thank the government for the fact that this bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u5	Mr President! This proposal therefore proposes the creation of a new National Medical Research Ethics Commission, which would be responsible for the ethical evaluation of all clinical trials carried out in Finland. In addition, the law would provide, inter alia, for the assessment of the application for a clinical trial, for informed consent and for the competence of the Centre for Safety and Development in the pharmaceutical sector (Fimea), in accordance with the national margin allowed by the Regulation. As has been pointed out here in these good speeches, the EU regulation has a great deal to do with it, so that we have to amend our current legislation. All in all, I welcome the fact that we are now once again discussing this pharmaceutical research here in Parliament. Just as Members have said here, at the moment, when we have a pandemic at hand, we need medicines. Medicines are developing all the time — getting better medicines, personalised medicines and increasing their effectiveness — but they always need to be tested, of course. Finland has an enormously good knowledge of pharmaceutical research and we also have a good reputation. We are very fact-based, and we also have an ethically high morale in the conduct of these investigations, and now that this legislation is still being implemented, that confidence will increase even further. I think it will also be such a health technology for us and also a kind of export product for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u6	Mr President! The aim of this broad draft law is to coordinate the practices of clinical trials, for example with regard to evaluation procedures and the status of subjects. As stated, the proposal is based on the EU Regulation that entered into force in 2014, and the biggest change in Finnish legislation is related to ethical assessment. Ethical evaluation is the focus of the law at national level on the new committee, but Fimea would carry out a scientific assessment as it has been so far. Mr President! Harmonisation of ethical assessment and practices is desirable both at EU and national level. This is important not only for the privacy and legal protection of the subject but also for ensuring that medical research complies with very high ethical standards and that these ethical rules are clear to all parties involved in research. I believe it is important for Parliament to discuss the ethical aspects of research, even in the current pandemic situation. The EU portal on clinical trials included in the government proposal offers the research community a better opportunity for mutual cooperation, which is also needed to tackle global challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u7	Mr President! Research is very important, and medical and clinical research is an important part of our health care and medical care, and it is our successful care of patients. It's an ethical review. In the Committee on the Future, both during the last period and this period, we have already discussed a great deal of ethical issues, including in the context of this period. The rapid progress of our technology and science raises many questions, and it seems even more important to assess our research practices and the issues to be carried out from an ethical point of view. The previous Members of Parliament, colleagues, have made the content of this bill very worthy, but I would also like to point out here that we are also trying to clarify the provisions on regional ethics committees. I would see that it is very important not only at national level but also at regional level. In addition, this would also change the procedure on how the sponsor would be able to appeal against the negative opinion of the Regional Ethics Commission. I would also see this as a very important content of this government's proposal. Not only are we conducting medical and clinical trials, but it is research medicines, their manufacture and import that play an important role, and this proposal also contains provisions on them. Personally, I would like to see the Committee on Social Affairs and Health now that we are going through this government’s proposal — a really nearly 300-page proposal — really consult experts carefully and, if I may say so, take a firm stand on what really are the limits of ethical clinical trials, also taking into account the fact that development and technology are moving forward quickly. Where technology and research make a lot of things possible, much good for our future, there are also certain risk factors, and I would like them to be carefully assessed as well. Thank you to the government for this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u8	Mr President! I draw attention to the role of children in this legislation. I hope that the committee will take these children's rights into account in clinical trials and in the relevant legislation. A medical study on children’s health and illnesses and their treatment is necessary because of the differences in both physical characteristics and the variety of diseases and, for example, the effect of medicines on adults. That is why it is of course essential that this clinical study can also be carried out in children. This proposal would retain the basic solution of current legislation, which allows the 15-year-old to give independent consent to certain studies. But even this age limit would not be absolute, so that there would be certain exceptions, for example depending on the level of development of the person, then the guardian’s views would be heard in the case of older children. The Committee on the Rights of the Child has recommended that States Parties do not introduce in their legislation age limits which in some way restrict the right of the child to be heard in matters affecting him or her, and in 2011 the Committee recommended Finland to abolish age limits in national legislation. However, this age limit, which we have had and which is still being proposed for use, has its own important arguments. For example, this age limit is particularly useful for those involved in research because it creates legal certainty. A more general solution in Europe is a solution in which a clinical trial, up to the age of 18, requires the consent of the guardian to the study, and this too is, of course, a good thing to consider. I therefore hope that the committee will go through this and consider this issue of age limits for minors. Children's participation in medical research involves even more of these ethically difficult issues than adults, and then, in particular, these ethics committees play a very important role, and it is important that there are experts who are familiar with the medical and medical aspects of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u9	Mr President! The new clinical trial law under discussion is warmly welcome. The good speeches that have already been made have highlighted the need for this bill to be carefully dealt with and, in particular, these ethical aspects. The rights of children, the rights of people with disabilities and the role of researchers have risen here. Here the Vice-President of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Laiho, raised good views. After all, research is good for tomorrow's care, and I welcome the fact that the Marin Government will continue to do the work that the Sipilä Government did, that is to say, the growth strategy in the health sector will be taken forward. It is also an opportunity to improve public health and the economy. When we talk about research, we cannot stop talking about research appropriations, and I say here that Parliament has done a lot of work during the previous parliamentary term and before that VTR money, the budget for clinical health research that has collapsed, regardless of the government, from 100 million to nearly 15 million, that work should continue. I express my concern at the fact that the budget of this year's state has already come down again, that is to say, the parliamentary group in the Coalition Party strongly supports the fact that we should have more research appropriations and, in particular, medical research, health research, this is important. President! While we are still talking about research, much of the threats to human disease are of animal origin. At the moment, when corona virus is spreading in the world and in our country, it is also important to provide for the budget of the veterinary college. There is a major risk of surgery, and here too I call for the funding of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine to be secured, and then for the research of that institution and the training of veterinary surgeons. But I am in favour of this bill and it really needs to be dealt with very carefully. Finally, I would like to highlight the ethical aspects that need to be carefully addressed. It is important that Finns trust research, participate in research. We have always appreciated research and people have also wanted to be involved in it, which is why this ethical aspect is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u10	Mr President! These many distinguished speeches have dealt with the content of this bill, and Mr Sarkomaa has also made a very valuable point about the importance of this funding and how much efforts have been made to improve it during the previous parliamentary term. I would like to highlight some of the practical benefits of clinical trials. When research is carried out in university hospitals, a new knowledge of the mechanisms and effectiveness of these medicines will always have the advantage of enabling the rapid introduction of new treatment practices and medicines. From my previous notes as a member of the Finance Committee, I found that in 2005-2015 more than 700 different development leaps had been made in Finland for diagnosis or disease treatment, because clinical medicine research is an integral part of patient care, although some of the studies are conducted in chambers, yet it is an integral part of its daily life in hospitals. In his own speech, representative Risikko raised the issue of Finnish competence, medical competence, a good reputation in the world. That's absolutely true. When we think about pharmaceutical research, pharmaceutical development and even health technology beyond that, we have enormous export potential. And one thing that justifies this export potential is our ecosystem. We have different actors working together. In previous speeches it was mentioned that Finns are very positive about research and then that we researchers have high moral standards and we have a biobank law and our registers are in order. It is quite clear that the health sector must be a strategic choice for Finland, and that is why this regulation and all the legislation that is involved are very good and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u11	Mr President! The legislator was unaware of the current state of play of the clinical trial in this corona. Even Korona has shown that it is very important that medical research is carried out with high ethical standards and ethical rules are clear to the authors, participants and ethical reviewers of the research. Similarly, the use of data must be clearly regulated and, for example, protect the privacy of individuals. This debate has raised the issue of the elderly, the disabled and the very young, whose privacy must be protected under all circumstances. It is a good thing that ethical evaluation is harmonised not only at national but also at EU level, as the EU portal will provide the research community with a better opportunity to cooperate with each other in order to combat global threats such as the corona virus. It is important for Parliament to hold a debate on the ethical aspects of research, even because, in accordance with the Government Programme, a biobank and genome law will be adopted during this government term. So we will return to these subjects many more times.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u12	Mr President! Finnish expertise is top quality, and we are well-known in the world, whether we are talking about medical research, cancer research or health technology. That is where we lead, and let us continue along that path. The development of medicines is very multi-stage and various tests are needed to produce new medicines and pharmaceutical forms for patients. Pre-clinical studies on new medicines are also often carried out prior to human studies, which means non-clinical, which means that we are also talking about animal testing. Of course, these alternative, different research methods are now being developed, and clinical trials are always based on human voluntary participation in such research. We have been raised here and this bill puts ethics at the centre, and certainly in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health we are discussing this a lot and we are consulting experts on the importance of the law for children and minors, among other things. Among other things, the bill states that a person aged 15 or over can decide to participate in a clinical trial. It is true that this study must be notified to parents if there is no justification for banning this notification, but the person who has reached the age of 15 may decide that only a study which has a clear benefit for the health of the minor concerned and which does not present risks or burdens, i.e. benefits outweigh the risks and burdens. Nevertheless, it is very important that we talk about the rights of minors and people with disabilities, and there are also elderly people who, of course, very often in their own everyday lives are users of many medicines, and in that way face, among other things, these different problems in relation to medicines. Ethical principles are important to remember both in medical research and in the nursing work itself. It supports us, we are doing our work ethically and well and we are following those principles, and I very much welcome the fact that the national medical ethics committee is also behind this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u13	Mr President! Often, when commenting here, there is some contrast in the comments, but I would like to comment in sympathy on the speech made by the representative of Estonia when he mentioned that there were 700 such clinical studies that could change the treatment practice. That study was carried out in HUS by Emeritus Professor Pekka Karma, and it was exclusively about the HUS environment, so that we can actually tell at least two of those numbers, which will become even more significant. In other words, approximately once a week in Finnish university hospitals, treatment practices were changed on the basis of the information obtained through clinical trials.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u14	Mr President! I too thought to take this opportunity to thank not only the government for the proposal but also all our researchers in Finland and also our volunteers who are involved in pharmaceutical research. After all, there is a rather different situation in Finland compared to many other countries in the sense that Finns in general have made a good start and have taken part in medical research quite voluntarily and free of charge, and it is a matter of great respect and conscience. This is also related to criminal law, and if it has been quite safe in Finland in the past to take part in pharmaceutical research, this government proposal makes it more specific. If there is deliberate action and gross negligence, something that could endanger the life or health of a person involved in a drug investigation, then the consequences come and they are marked and further specified in the Criminal Code. Finland’s research is internationally valued — in that world as we go to conferences — research work in Finland is of high quality and is of high quality. It has also been a pleasure to have participated in two international studies in the past, especially in Finland. I would also like to raise the question that, when this is being discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and when you assess all these regulations and ethical assessments, you would also consider this process from the investigator's point of view, in the sense that the process would not be too long and complicated, because it may then be that, along with all other obligations, energy is already taking place in the early stages, that is to say, in the light of practical actions and ethics, a positive view and support for researchers who carry out the important research.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u15	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u16	Mr President! The government's proposal before us is well founded and, as is also mentioned here in the government proposal, the Committee on Transport and Communications has taken a positive view in its report and sees that the additions that this proposal brings are necessary. And the basic message if you read about it, however, is that this continues to improve the flow and safety of traffic, so it would be difficult to disagree. In particular, we have been weighing on the operation of these long-distance HCT trucks, and in fact within the government's proposal there are estimates which will certainly defend it in the time of the much criticised reform by which these big trucks came to us. Of course, there are still issues that we have printed bridges in which these big cars cannot operate because of the load. But things are evolving, and yet this has some probable benefits: some of the pieces, goods and food transports have saved 100 million kilometres and fuel has also been saved if the right engine size has been chosen. All in all, this has already been followed up, but we still want these safety features to be considered in the future, and that is why they are regulated in the regulation, which will enable rapid and effective solutions to be made. Here is also the position taken on these heavy snowmobiles. And I believe that, at least a moment ago, there was a request from Mr Auto to speak on the agenda, that he would point out that, when tourism is now in difficulty, with the corona virus, it is hoped that this new model of sleds, which has been included on the routes, will allow for a faster return of tourism and a more profitable business for these safaris and others. But at this point we have to say — rob, Mr President, a little on the other tracks: Here we discussed with Mr Ronkainen that we still have something to do, and that is that in the future, when a person receives a driving licence, it would also serve as an identity card. It is hoped, and let's see if our powers to collect this 100 names when this kind of bill is made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u17	Mr President! Of course, the Road Traffic Act is a hugely important law for us Finns. Every Finn — perhaps not every day, but certainly every week — is on the road in one way or another, and road safety and the smooth running of traffic are of course important to us. Of course, all goods from food to daily goods travel on rubber wheels, so this transport perspective is also central to our everyday lives. But, indeed, Mr President, when we live in such an exceptional situation, I would like very briefly to deal with just one mode of transport. Mr Myllykoski, who is of course known as a visionary representative in many ways, could see directly at the heart of my speech, so I would like to speak in a few words about snowmobiles. This government proposal, in itself, contains well-founded proposals, but there are a couple of aspects which have not been sufficiently well taken into account in the original reform of the road transport law or in this so-called series of amendments, and these matters must then be ensured in the course of the committee's deliberations. The second relates to the definition of a snowmobile route. The snowmobile route should, as a rule, be reserved for snowmobiles, not other vehicles, but of course the legislation must provide for the possibility that, in view of the Enontekiö as a large fell area, it may then be possible to create, by additional signing on the snowmobile route, the possibility that the route can be run on a dog harness, for example, in conditions where visibility is good and there is no danger of collision. But dogs or reindeer and snowmobiles are not suitable for the same routes, for example. In order to ensure safety, the committee will have to take a close look at this legislative amendment. Another aspect, including a small one, but really important for snowmobiles and safety, relates to the use of helmets. Of course, we adult people must be standardised and a good helmet whenever we are on a sled, but when children wear helmets and especially children wear helmets, we must be able to be flexible in such a way that a so-called ski helmet, which is a child's neck, a child's body structure is suitable for sledding — that is, a small child, a child from a school, a child under the age of 10 — must be allowed to have safe sledding, a safe sledding culture in the future. I understand that this may not be the top of the deck in all constituencies, but at this time of year in the constituency of Lapland this is a real issue of everyday security. I really hope that the committee will understand when the committee is able to deal with this issue, that you will also ask experts about this point of view and, if necessary, make these changes which are important for everyday safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u18	Mr President! The Road Traffic Act adopted during the last parliamentary term will enter into force on 1 June this year, and the Government's proposal in the referral debate will update and actually take into account the new issues that have emerged since the adoption of that law, in a way a series of corrections will be made to that road traffic law that has already been decided. Among other things, the Government proposes that the administrative reform of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, combined HCTs approved for road use and already adopted provisions for heavy-duty snowmobiles be incorporated into the new Road Traffic Act, i.e. they will also be brought to the level of the law. It is also proposed to specify the obligation to use the parking disc and the related calculation of the parking time in order to be unambiguous. A change is also proposed in the Road Transport Act to provide for a transitional period of seven years for the setting of two-way traffic signs. The aim of this amendment is to ease the financial burden for road operators on labelling and also to give time to the design and implementation of high-quality cycling routes. The objectives of the repair package are very much to be welcomed, as the new road transport law, along with the changes proposed by this government, will contribute to the safety and smooth operation of transport, as has already been pointed out in previous speeches. It will also reduce the total number of traffic regulations and reduce the administrative burden. Of course, there is this package of laws in the Ministry, this government proposal has also been made in haste, because this new road traffic law is about to enter into force on 1 June, and it is hoped that this repair package will also be brought into this new law at the same time, and that is why we want to move this forward quickly. This will probably leave some of these things, as Mr Autto also pointed out: the multiple use of snowmobile routes, which has been the subject of a lot of discussion, as well as the use of children's helmets, i.e. the kind of helmet that should be on the snowmobile. Several amendments to the main dimensions of tractors and their combinations have also been proposed in the opinions. The Ministry has also justified why not all of these have been taken into account in this draft law: that is, for reasons of timetable, that they have not been made available. I believe that the Committee on Transport and Communications will examine these issues in its own deliberations, and then, if necessary, clarifications will be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u19	Mr President! Just in time I came to this Chamber, and I am sure that good speeches have already been made here, but the Committee on Transport and Communications has been discussing this issue today, and the timetable may be a little longer for an accident, and that should be welcomed. Of course, personal opinion: whether it is the Road Traffic Act 1.6. come into force in this situation? It can be viewed. One thing I would like to raise, which is mentioned in this so-called series of repairs, is snowmobiles. Especially in these times, we need to listen carefully to the entrepreneurs, what they think about it. After all, entrepreneurs have become concerned about the northern direction — now no longer affecting the south — but about the northern direction of snowmobile routes, marking them. When it is translated the other way around, that is, when someone is banned, it would be marked and not so that only these permitted ones should be marked. It will be quite a lot of work, and even though I live and live here in the south, I have come to know the conditions of Lapland. There are very different conditions. Of course, you can make changes at your discretion, but with reasonableness and low costs. So are these helmets used in snowmobiles. It is a great thing that they are being used, but it is a concern for children that this is going to happen now when it comes to demanding too heavy helmets from very young children, heavy helmets that they do not wear them at all. Is it better, though, to have a ski helmet on the head or on a snowmobile or on a sleigh? These are such things that we must seriously deal with and think about in committee, because these are entrepreneurs' messages and these touch families who snowmobile in the north. It is not just a concern for entrepreneurs, it is a concern for families, and they must be listened to carefully, especially now, when it comes to the coming autumn and winter, when, unfortunately, this economic situation may not improve much now — so that we are in a position to ensure that entrepreneurs are able to operate in the north and that families are able to travel safely.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u20	Mr President! The key theme of this so-called repair series has certainly been to increase transport efficiency for these HCT trucks. There will be much more goods for rubber wheels on one truck, and that will significantly increase this transport efficiency. This same spirit, however, has been lacking in this government proposal. Although the proposal is good in many respects and this improves this overall package of laws, as is the case here with subsidies, this is where the main dimensions, weights and widths of the combination have been taken into account for tractors by producers and machine operators in Central Ostrobothnia, and they have not been able to be included in this preparation due to the need for timetables. However, when this moving of goods is the central spirit of this government proposal, so also on the agricultural side of the material transfer from the fields to the farm centre and again from the farm centre to the field requires even more of this kind of mass transfer. In that sense, this law has been out of date, i.e. these dimensions and widths and weights have been very small, and as a result of structural developments, this traffic trafic from the farm to the field has increased enormously and more tractors and loads have been on the road because these measurements do not allow larger entities to move. Tractor technology has developed enormously. There have come a variety of powerful tractors, braking features have improved, weight masses can be increased and sizes have grown, which means that today the main tractor alone, the large tractor is starting to be wider than these dimensions, which are now defined. It causes, among other things, the tractor to be very large and the tractor to be a very slow road traffic jam, and in that sense it is difficult to operate smoothly with these large tractors, which means that these speeds should be checked in the course of further analysis. Furthermore, these so-called agrotraces, i.e. vehicles that combine the characteristics of a lorry and a tractor, have not been taken into account in any way, and the need for agricultural activities has also increased significantly, and it would be good to have them subject to legislation before they become more widespread in the use of agriculture. In other words, I would like to see these shortcomings dealt with at some point, so that these measurements and weights can also be updated, so that the practice does not conflict very much with the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u21	Mr President! This proposal is a package of corrections to the Road Traffic Act, which will enter into force on 1 June 2020. Surprisingly, this repair package already contains a huge number of proposals for a new repair package. There are many points in the text which state that, because of the urgency of the matter, a proposal which is considered to be a good one has not been included in this package of corrections. Of course, the question is this: what necessity has it now been for this to come here so quickly, as soon as a new repair package has to come along, and whether there will then be a third repair package? Would it not be useful if we were to get things right at once and incorporate these wishes expressed by experts in this regard? This kind of thing seems like the wasteful use of Parliament to bring in a repair package with 20 new proposals for a repair package inside. Then, to this substance itself, these HCT vehicles, which are also included in this new law without the obligation of the State to contribute to these costs of road maintenance arising from these new heavy trucks. — In practice, this means that these road repairs, especially in urban areas, will then be carried out by the municipality and will be completely replaced by the municipality. This commentary is the most interesting part of this whole bill, because it sees this expertise that we have in road maintenance and legislation. Somehow I can't help but be surprised. I am not really criticising the government here, but we have expert organisations to try to take into account their views as fully as possible, so that there is no need to come to the law of correction and the law of correction and then to the law of repair on top of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u22	Mr President! In this speech Mr Laukkanen described this as a series of corrections or something like that. However, I personally think it is all right for road transport to be reacted as quickly as possible if it is clear that there is room for improvement in the law, which, in my opinion, is also reflected in the fact that as many as 70 opinions have been issued. Then there is definitely a need for this accelerated practice. Of course, it would always be good to have legislation that does not need to be corrected, but as we know when it comes to road transport, it is not always very easy. Congressman Autto spoke mainly of snowmobiles. I am not terribly familiar with them myself, we usually have the sun shining in Varsinais-Suomi and there is very little snow. On the other hand, this change in the HCT in this legislative package means in practice that the demand for 12-metre towing vehicles will increase very quickly, and this will mean that the sizes of combined vehicles will also increase. I am a little concerned about the condition of the road network in this regard. After all, the government has made a good decision to increase the funding of 300 million on a permanent basis, as far as this time-honoured debt of ours is concerned, thank you very much. However, there are 15,000 bridges in the road network and about 500 of them are classified as weak, 400 have weight restrictions, and these changes proposed in this legislative package will also further affect the burden on the road network. I would therefore ask that the committee also take account of the proportion and importance of bridges in our road network. Account will also be taken of the fact that the share of cycle paths has increased significantly. In other words, it is not just the record of the Government Programme in terms of funding that is being satisfied, but it is the proportion of bridges and the weight limits that are being taken into account, and so on. This is very topical now that the sizes of combined vehicles will in any case increase as a result of this change. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u23	Mr President! Dear Parliament! In particular, at the beginning of this debate, Minister Harakka regrets that he himself cannot be present in this referral debate, but you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that we are living in exceptional times and that the minister is now required to prepare future proposals for these exceptional times. This is therefore a package of amendments to the Road Traffic Act, proposed by the Government 17, and, as has been mentioned here, the previous Government has adopted the Road Traffic Act, which will enter into force on 1 June 2020, and since the adoption of the new Road Traffic Act, there have been changes in road transport legislation which need to be incorporated into the new law. At the same time, the Government proposes some clarifications and corrections to the provisions already adopted. The proposed changes are necessary after the administrative reform of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and after the approval of the HCT vehicle combination and heavy snowmobile for road use. These provisions are still in force in the Road Traffic Act and in the 92 regulation on the use of vehicles on the road. These regulations will be repealed in the summer with the entry into force of the new Road Traffic Act. The administrative reform of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the incorporation of heavy snowmobiles into the new Road Traffic Act will be carried out by means of technical amendments and the proposed regulation will have no economic or social impact. However, the HCT vehicle combination has been extensively assessed in the proposal. The road safety effects of combinations, for example, have been neutral for a follow-up period of about one year since the road transport use was approved. The environmental impact has even been better than estimated due to the lower fuel consumption of combinations. 70 opinions on the draft opinion of the Board of Directors were issued in the course of the consultation. In addition to the statement on the draft draft, the opinions proposed a large number of amendments to the new Road Traffic Act. Taking the proposals into account in the further preparation after the consultation has been difficult for timetable reasons. However, some proposals have also been included in the proposal. For example, the provision on the marking of parking time has been clarified so as to simplify the interpretation of time-limited parking time for both the road user and the parking supervisor. The concerns of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities regarding the costs of assigning a bidirectional cycle path have also been taken into account in the preparation by proposing a transitional period of seven years. This will enable municipalities to design and implement more comprehensive routes for cycling. There are also several legal and linguistic corrections. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament adopted the new road traffic law in this Chamber 26. The President The new law brings together provisions on behaviour in transport, such as general principles of transport, traffic rules and rules on the use of vehicles on the road. The Act also provides for traffic control and traffic control equipment and signs, as well as a traffic error fee for infringements of the law. The law contains a legal annex containing traffic control equipment with pictures and explanations, and lists the main dimensions of the vehicle operating rules and vehicle-specific speeds. In its report, the Committee on Transport and Communications now considered the new road transport law to be a valid and necessary update of today's situation and, according to the Committee, as a law for all road users, it is important that regulation is clear and responsive to today's needs. The Committee also considered that the whole package would contribute to increasing the safety and smooth running of transport. Mr President! As has been said here, this government proposal is in line with the wishes of the committee and we in the Committee on Transport and Communications have already proactively begun to deal with this issue. The Road Traffic Act is probably one of the most read laws in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u24	Mr President! We are now living in extremely challenging times in Finland, but I am sure we all believe that we can get across these things and get back to building a bridge for future growth and ensuring that employment and entrepreneurship are successful in Finland. In Lapland, the tourism industry has doubled its volume every ten years over the past decades. And even though we have such transitions as we are now living in, there were ash clouds and others, this big trend will certainly not change. Here in the south, where we are now, the land is here, you can say, almost grass green and winter is unknown, but at the same time there is almost a meter of snow in the north, in some places even more. The total income of tourism in Lapland is approximately EUR 1 billion. It is very important, if you think of it as an attraction factor for the whole of Finland, for tourism in Finland. That is why, in connection with this road transport law, you can say the repair package, I would like to raise two questions which have already been raised here, but which are so important and important from the point of view of tourism development and also from the point of view of road safety, in particular, that I sincerely hope that the Committee on Transport and Tourism will take them into account at the hearing and make the corrections which the Government has now proposed have not been taken into account here. These are two things: What has already been on the table here, namely the new road transport law, would not prevent motor vehicles from travelling on official snowmobile routes. It could be that when a snowmobile comes out in the dark, someone is riding with a horse or with a dog harness. They are very narrow gutters and weather conditions very difficult, dark, shady, may snow, and it would be a life-threatening combination. This should be expressly prohibited for each section of the route by means of signs, otherwise it would be permitted. This is a bad change if this is the way it is. The starting point should be that the snowmobile routes are, in principle, intended for snowmobiles, and if you want to, you can allow someone else, a vehicle without an engine, to move there. I sincerely hope that this will also be corrected and taken care of in this respect for the safety of tourism and the safety of all people on snowmobiles and also those other means of transport, motorless means of transport, mobiles. Another issue related to this helmet obligation for young children has also been raised here. It has now been observed that, for example, children under 2 years of age have been wearing a ski helmet or something rather than an official helmet because if we put a very heavy snowmobile helmet on a small child, one year of age, then even a small stop is extremely dangerous when we know the weight of that helmet and the bones of a small child, which is still sensitive. I sincerely hope that you will correct these two changes. And this current practice, which is definitely better from a safety point of view, could survive there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u25	Mr President! As has been said here in several speeches, we are dealing with an update package on the road traffic law, which will enter into force on 1 June 2020. I, too, would like to highlight in my own speech the combination of HCT vehicles, which has been approved for use on the road with the amendment to the Regulation on the use of road vehicles on 10 January 2019, and there is one point here, which is why we now need to update this law. Then the cycle paths have not yet come up — or I think they have come up in one of the speeches. So we have a lot of two-way cycle paths in the way that we have yet to connect the walking and cycling paths and always walk along the right side of the bike road when we go forward, and when we do, we are on the right side. We have a lot of these, and this is what is causing them to have to be labelled in such a way that there is two-way traffic here. I'm just wondering how we've been doing so far without any signs. Somehow it seems that this is perhaps done by making it possible to set these signs, but here is a very important cost issue for the municipalities. Of course, it is a relief that there is a transitional period of seven years. And it may still be that when the seven - year transition period comes, this law will still be able to change at this time. When you have listened to these proposals for amendments, which may be coming, it may well be that the committee will already raise these issues in its own report and take them forward, because that is possible. Of course, it will increase the workload for the committee, but we have done a lot of work in committee before, and there have been unfinished proposals and they have been corrected. Of course, I hope that there will also be cooperation on this front.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u26	Mr President! The Government is proposing supplements to the new Road Traffic Act due to changes in other legislation since the adoption of the Act, and for this reason 1.6. the road traffic law that will enter into force will have to be clarified. Many important points have been raised in this sitting and I will not repeat them, but I will say a few words about the cycle paths, although Mr Pierainen has already mentioned them. One of the key changes to the new Road Traffic Act is that since 1.6., cycle paths will be taken one-way according to the main rule, as is already the case in many other Western European countries. There may still be two-way cycle paths, but the road traffic law already adopted obliges the road operator to mark the two-way cycle road with an additional sign. It is good that the government's proposal provides for a transitional period of seven years to demonstrate the bidirectional nature of the cycle paths in order to allow road operators, especially municipalities, sufficient time for the design and construction of the infrastructure under the new law. This has been included in the government proposal precisely because, according to the information received in the drafting of the law, municipalities are not ready for this change at this stage. From a road safety point of view, there is a problem with a two-way bicycle road next to the road. The bidirectional nature of cycling creates safety problems at the intersections, as the biker coming to the intersection from the perspective of the motorist comes to the intersection unexpectedly from a different direction from the other traffic on the road. Here in Finland, too, we have a very common link between foot traffic and bicycle traffic, especially when experienced by pedestrians in terms of feeling safe. These additions to the Government's Road Traffic Act are intended to influence the smoothness and safety of cycling, and I think this is very important. We in the Committee on Transport and Communications, as the chairman of the committee has also said, have begun to discuss this government proposal and we will look into it carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u27	And within time, Mr. Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u28	Mr President! Indeed, we are dealing with the repair package for this road transport law that will enter into force in June. The aim of the major reform has been to streamline transport and improve road safety, and we are undoubtedly taking important steps in the right direction. In fact, road safety is something that we cannot talk about too much. Every death in traffic is too much, and the goal must be zero traffic deaths every year. However, in 2019, there were still 205 traffic fatalities, and the average number of seriously injured persons has been around 800 to 900 per year, which means that we really still have something to do. Safety in walking and cycling will improve with this future law. Many good practices have been taken from European countries, as Mr Werner has said here, and many of these already have good experiences in Finland. The bike path will be one-way by default and is located on the right side of the street. This represents a significant improvement in the current somewhat confused system. This will make cycling clearer and safer. This reform is very good. It has indeed been criticised that municipalities and ely centres are faced with the cost of these changes — both these changes in cycling infrastructure and the setting of traffic signs. It is clear that the routes of cycling are not radically changing, and the addition of temporary plates to existing two-way routes is, in that sense, producing extra work. It is worth remembering, however, that in the long run, the investments in cycling and walking pay off. Better cycling infrastructure, which is undoubtedly an increase in one-way routes, will increase physical activity. For example, in Helsinki it has been calculated that the euro for cycling will bring back EUR 8 as health benefits, and we must keep this in mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u29	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings will continue at this sitting once the other items of the agenda have been discussed, i.e. after the next item in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u30	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u31	Mr President! This is where you're going to have to change your mind right now. The Road Transport Act has been mentioned here, and to some extent some Members here may have taken note of the fact that we are talking about a law that has not yet entered into force and that we are already going to get Parliament to deal immediately with proposals for corrections or supplementary proposals for this law. However, everyone understands that road transport is a fast-moving system and that time has to be lived and clarifications made. A number of details have already been mentioned here, which should be clarified here — these are the details of all the questions that are now being raised in this supplementary proposal or in the proposal for a correction. I myself would like to raise one question from there, and that is the comments on parking. There are two points in it that we want to achieve a little fine-tuning for parking, for this parking disc system: The second concerns the identification of persons with disabilities, where it is hoped that the identification of persons with disabilities for parking in the European Union would also be directly applicable to Finland, i.e. foreign cars in the register coming from the European Union system would then be able to use these so-called parking places for people with disabilities. The second question concerns the parking disc. Mr President, you will be aware that 122 Members of Parliament have signed a bill that it should be possible to rationalise this parking control at all, to bring it into line with the public's sense of justice when it has become a cash-in business, with clear pressure on repair. One of the minor remedies there is the fact that this legislation is not clear either. The question is, for example, that if you have a four-hour chance on a parking disc to park your car in an area where parking discs are required between 8 and 4 p.m., what happens if you park your car at 3 p.m. and place it at departure time. What's the time if the next day that same car is still there? Is 11 o'clock or 12 o'clock the parking time allowed? There are quite different practices here in different municipalities, in different cities, quite different practices, and in that sense we citizens are not even equal; the same legislation applies, but the interpretation is different. With such contradictions in this parking system, it is good that attention is now being paid to them and that, among other things, this point is being corrected. If I correctly understand that government proposal — I think I understand it correctly — then the idea is that if you have parked at 3 p.m. the previous day, then the four-hour period will begin to count again from 8 p.m. if the car is there on the same spot the next day, which is rational and reasonable in that regard. Mr President! I would also like to see the bill signed by the majority of Members of Parliament taken seriously in this process, and perhaps even in the context of this road transport law, appropriate references made to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u32	Mr President, ärade talman! It is really great that there have been many examples of good things coming into this new road traffic law. They have been raised before. I would like to make two points myself: This applies to the combination of HCT vehicles and their provisions which would be introduced into the new road transport law, and I think this is a good thing. These vehicles bring their own challenges, for example, regarding the condition of the roads and then perhaps most of all in terms of the carrying capacity of the bridges. Here, among other things, Mr Junnila raised these issues. The Road Traffic Act will change and corrections will also be made in the future. In view of future changes: Today, after these HCT vehicles, I understand it says “long”. It should be remembered thatthe Finnish roads also use otherlanguages than Finnish,for example at the border,lifetimes could well read as a combination of these HCT vehicles,i.e.they do not Maybe it's just this meter. Then there is also the reference to special transport and, above all, to what is to be considered special transport in the future. I understand that these permits are given at the Ely Centre in Pirkanmaa, and there are quite long processing times, which means that perhaps more resources should be made available there, especially now in this situation. While exports are still going on in the future, it would really be important for processing times to be reduced and special transports to be able to quickly obtain permits that they will be able to take off in order to make the economy turn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u33	Mr President! Now, to the one in the referral conversation... — Ah, now I have the words, but let me speak without speech when they were lost. Mr President! I think I'm the only representative of this hall who's been driving a combination of these HCT vehicles. [Sheikki Laakso’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u34	Mr President! I would like to say a few words about this, which was mentioned earlier by Mr Salmon, namely the authorisation of other traffic on snowmobile routes. It should only be allowed by means of an additional shield, as Mr Salmon said. In my long career as a rescuer in many animal accidents, I can see that in the situation described by the salmon when it is dark, and even if it is not dark, but if there is an animal on the route, such as a horse sled, and comes up against snowmobiles with speed, I can imagine the situation when the horse is flattened — it is an elk-sized animal, even bigger, then suddenly it has big damage. In other words, I would like to see the committee really draw attention to this when dealing with this issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u35	Mr. Speaker! Of course, these HCT vehicle combinations, i.e. the so-called long trucks, will improve our logistics in that we can transport larger quantities of goods at a time, but we will, of course, face the challenge, as has been mentioned here in the debate, of the condition of our roads and the durability and loadability of our bridges. Not only is the government now committed to making investments in the euro for the establishment of foundations and bridges, but we must also be able to make use of the sources of funding available in the EU. In other words, when it comes to military mobilisation, that is to say military mobility and related projects, these specifically focus on the range of bridges, and also on the sustainability and loadability of our various types of rail transport and critical infrastructure connections. We must be able to use all these financial instruments at these stages in the best possible way. Certainly when the committee deals with this, they will also listen to experts on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u36	Mr President! I am using the transport terminology here: when we talk about who has driven how much, I guess I have cancelled the HCT train more than the rest of you have driven forward. [Central Group : Oh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u37	Mr President! There is now a non-expert, not in the transport sector, nor in snowmobiles. May I make this remark to you that when you see these HCT trains — this term was now used here — in traffic, I am terrified. They already seem insanely big out there, and I'm just afraid that one day we'll have big accidents with them. Is this getting out of hand? I will not open the debate, Mr President, here we have more important issues. Instead, I wanted to say that about this snowmobiling — which I am sure is not an expert when I come from southern Finland — that I think it is important that when the Transport Committee now deals with this road law, it listens to the so-called Lapland men here and listens to those entrepreneurs there. Yes, I believe that if you say so and you use these snowmobile routes there and you told me openly that they are risky, that very unsafe risk situations may arise. I do feel that we legislators have to take this seriously. And in that respect I hope that the Committee on Transport and Tourism will take it so seriously that you will make such a proposal here for us, you will shortly prepare it so that we can accept it in good faith.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u38	Mr. Speaker! With regard to my own speech, Mr Laakso, I would like to say that I have also spoken with the entrepreneurs in the sector, and indeed they have just presented this, that, as you go further along the road, the pressure on the road will be reduced, and this will certainly be the case with the bridges. In my own speech, I would like to point out that we in general have a very strong need for renovation and bridges, and we must now look beyond our own budget, that is to say, from these sources of EU funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u40	Mr President! For that funding: it is now a 12-year parliamentary group on the road network that is considering this funding base there, and hopefully we will have sufficient funding, because the road repair debt is already EUR 2.8 billion and will increase if we do not get more funding for basic infrastructure management. But on this matter of snowmobiles, a little bit more and a little more for Mr. Kiljunen, in the sense that it is not just a matter for Lapland. We have two thousand sleds, we own in the Tampere region, and we have made more than 600 kilometres of snowmobile route there. But when these coils are like this, it is very important to discuss whether these routes are also available for other vehicles. From this point of view, it is also a question of landowners, but it was very important to raise this note that we know what is going on with the vehicle.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u41	The plenary session will be suspended and resumed at approximately 4 p.m. to announce the decisions taken by the Government today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u42	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u43	Mr President! It has to be said in the same way as in the previous point on road transport law that, unfortunately, a minister who would have liked to present this issue, Mr Skinner, because of the very same reasons as many ministers or all ministers are absent from this place, will have to focus on even more topical issues than the process of strengthening this agreement. This is about the United Nations Technology Innovation Laboratory (UNTIL), which has been a pilot phase in Finland since 2018, and now with this contractual arrangement, which will hopefully be confirmed by Parliament, it will become a permanent institution in Finland. This is part of the notorious internationalisation — I say it is sad because internationalisation, or the world’s reduction, also has the negative effects, as we see from this violent pandemic. The world is shrinking, and we are part of a common ball, but the second dimension of internationalisation is also that we are trying to build a treaty-based international system, and its central institution in the global dimension is of course the UN system, the UN institutions. For a small country such as Finland, it will be a huge advantage if we can get these UN institutions here. They are very competitive when 193 Member States would all like to see these UN institutions on their own soil. It is an achievement that Finland has gradually, very slowly, now succeeded in obtaining some of the UN Secretariat's institutions, which are all, and wonderfully, related to development policy in particular. In the 1980s, this department of economic development research Wider was placed in Finland, and later the pilot phase of this UNTIL innovation laboratory came to Finland the other year, and last year we also received an office in Finland under UNOPS, which is therefore a UN project agency. These are the first small-scale UN presence units in Finland, and it is self-evident that the coming of these institutions to Finland makes sense for us and strengthens our own community in relation to the international community, but now they all serve the internal needs of Finland in their own way. In fact, this technology innovation laboratory is about technological development, being involved in digitalisation, and it is valuable that this thematic aspect, to which particular emphasis is now being placed, responds directly to the general needs of Finland's development policy. It is education, it is health, it is a circular economy and it is questions of war and peace, it is questions of international security and peace. In other words, in all these areas, the UN-subsidised system will then aim at developing technologies that are, above all, appropriate and reasonable in terms of global dimensions, but particularly in terms of developing countries, the poorer southern hemisphere, where there is a need. That is why, Mr President, development cooperation funds will be used for this, 7.5 million of our development funds for the costs of this institution, and that is very appropriate. All in all, this is a great step forward, a good step forward, and one can congratulate Finland and the government on having received this proposal here today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u44	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen well described the significance of the UN and the significance of the fact that different countries are able to bring these UN activities to their own territory. This is, of course, one of the key issues too. All in all, this role of the UN will now be emphasised in the coming months, even when this huge pandemic is being dealt with, which has hit us here in Europe and, indeed, in the whole world — there are not many other parts of the world where these problems would not exist — which is what we in Finland are going to be dealing with very strongly today. It requires multilateral cooperation, it requires UN guidelines, it calls for a common agreement on how we can agree on these matters. Digital systems are also very much emphasised in it, and we will now have this digitalisation raised even more strongly in our own system here in Finland in how to teach, how to enable remote work and so on. This importance of digitalisation will also increase in international relations. This proposal will be dealt with more strongly in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and will also be able to take this proposal forward with Mr Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u45	Mr President! I would like to add to Mr Savola's words that this international competition for these UN institutions is very strong. We traditionally have two capitals in the United Nations, and that centre is, of course, New York, and the other is Geneva, where the League of Nations was, at one time, the central institutions of the United Nations. Austria has managed to build Vienna piece by piece now as the third impressive UN centre, and then there is a long gap — then there is a long gap, and there are individual institutions around the world. And yes, it has to be said that a small country such as Finland, with a strong security policy competence, has a strong investment in development policy, Finland, if that could be an excellent way to be a UN centre stronger than it has been so far. That is why it is great that we now have a third such clear institution here — a small one, but a step in the right direction. Maybe there'll be bigger fish in this same process somewhere. Yes, Finland’s international position and also its security policy position will be strengthened by the fact that UN institutions will come here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-17-ps-24.u46	We shall now resume today at 3:34 p.m. the adjourned session.
