ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 14/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 22 September 2020. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u2	Mr President! I'm going to counter-protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u3	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u4	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 2/2020 vp. The chairman, Mr Risikko, will present you, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u5	Mr President! Indeed, I am presenting the report of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media on this matter. The initiative therefore calls for the adoption of a law obliging an adult with a therapeutic capacity to attend every primary school in our country. The committee went through a very wide range of issues, and we said this: ‘The aim of the CIP is to improve the welfare of basic According to the initiative, this person would be able to complete and improve child protection work. He would be able to prevent school bullying and other problems hampering safe schooling and to improve the learning environment of all pupils by means of his own guidance for life skills.” “The Committee considers that the citizen’s initiative has addressed the relevant and On this topical subject, too, we note from time to time that bullying at school is a serious problem. ‘The citizens’ initiativeproduces concern for the health and exclusion of children and School bullying endangers the student’s right to a safe learning environment. Bullying is a major contributor to nausea in the development of young people and a serious threat to health, well-being and school motivation. Experiences of being bullied often affect adults to a great extent. For example, an interview survey conducted in the Youth Research Network revealed that young people outside education and work have often experienced bullying during their school days.” “The latest results of the school health survey show that bullying,discrimination, violence and sexual harassment occurin schools, educational institutions and leisure. In the data of the school health survey, 34 per cent of respondents reported being bullied during the academic year. About 7 percent reported being bullied once or several times a week. The results for 2019 do not differ significantly from the corresponding results for 2017.’ “The committee considers that although bullying, mental health problems and exclusion are in close contact withothers and that the lack of bullying through therapeutic According to the expert opinion received by the committee, a register study has shown that the cumulative disadvantage is often caused by structural factors such as poverty, unemployment and broken family relationships. In addition, according to studies conducted in Finland, one of the key risk factors for mental health problems and exclusion of children is the mental illness of parents. In international studies and in Finnish register surveys, it has been found that the level of education, income problems and mental health problems will be transferred to the next generation. The Committee considers it important that, in addition to addressing individual bullying, the structural factors causing nausea are identified and solutions are found.” “In most cases, the victims of bullying, discrimination and racism are from Children in need of special support in school environments are also in a vulnerable position.” ‘It is difficult to deal with the problems of bullying, ill-treatment and Bullying among school-age children also occurs, for example, in social media.” “Although the problem is complex and has wide dimensions, the Committee considers that the school’s central Schools play an important role in ensuring healthy growth of children and young people: the school is an integral part of the everyday life of children and young people for many years, and education must be done in addition to education. The importance of the school is particularly important when the child’s access to support from his or her parents is limited. The school should support, among other things, students’ teaming skills and provide safe environments for their training. In addition to the content of subjects, teaching mental health skills according to the basic curriculum needs to be integrated into the school’s operating culture.” “The committee considers that mental health and well-being are alsopromoting the skills It is important to adopt them in basic education and early childhood education because they help you to share your feelings and experiences, understand the feelings of others, and even discuss difficult matters.” We went through various standards that we currently have in place: ‘It is important from the point of view of the status of The student must be able to carry out his/her compulsory education under appropriate conditions and without distractions such as the threat of bullying, harassment or violence.” ‘The protection of the well-being and well-being of For example, the Basic Education Act contains a number of provisions that oblige the organiser of education to ensure that the well-being of his pupils is safeguarded and promoted in the various activities of the school. The Basic Education Act, among other things, safeguards the right of each student to a safe learning environment, both physical and psychological. In addition, education must be arranged according to the age and conditions of the pupils so as to contribute to the healthy growth and development of the pupils.” ‘The law lays down the obligation of the This model of three-step support has become a criticism which we hope will be dealt with later. ‘In order to ensure the welfare of pupils, In addition, the Student and Student Care Act also contains relevant standards. ‘Its purpose is to ensure the well-being of That law provides, inter alia, for the organisation of the services of professionals — such as school psychologists, curators, nurses, doctors — as well as for cross-cutting cooperation in student care.’ We stress in particular that this should be done in accordance with the requirements of the Student and Student Care Act, precisely in accordance with the spirit of the law. Priority is given to ensuring that students receive the support they need at an early stage and that there is sufficient resources to organise the support. We also had youth law in terms of concepts, and there are standards. We also went through many development projects. There are many development projects in Finland: Kerava is an experiment, we also have good experiments in Lappeenranta, the ProSchool operating model is very good. And all in all, in the previous term of government, for example, equality grants in the form of state grants financed a wide range of projects. We wanted to refer to them in this report — and also to the Icelandic model, which is now being applied to Finland. What is important, however, is that these good practices are disseminated and implemented and that they are also taken care of in the joint stages. The final summary states: “The committee considers that existing legislation is a good basis for ensuring The Basic Education Act and the regulations adopted under it, as well as the Student and Student Care Act, constitute a whole which already obliges the organiser of education, in a cross-cutting manner, to ensure that the school's activities are organised in a manner that ensures the well-being of the pupils and that the pupils receive the individual and community support they need at an early stage. Legislation also allows for further development of activities both locally and nationally. Thus, legislation, together with the development projects that have been carried out and are under way, responds well to the need set out in the citizens' initiative to ensure more effective protection of the well-being of children and young people.” ‘The committee recognises that new provisions that require education providers to recruit new professionals to schools are not appropriate. “ We have a variety of professionals there, but it is important that they also act in accordance with the spirit of the law. ‘The committee considers that,in the first place,it is ‘It also notes the need to ensure the clarity, efficiency and good The common and well-known educational principles in school — the positive feedback approach and the student atmosphere in the elections — strengthen the prerequisites for creating an environment for good learning and growth.’ In conclusion, Mr President, ‘The development of a culture of community and shared responsibility is a key factor in preventing and preventing ill-being. It is also important to take into account the views of pupils and their parents and their participation in school activities and to support families in order to prevent the overgeneration of problems from continuing.’ The committee's proposal for a decision is that Parliament rejects the proposal contained in the citizens' initiative specifically for the legal establishment of new professionals. But the matter itself was considered very important. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u6	Mr President! Thank you to the initiative of the initiators and to the chairman of the committee for a comprehensive presentation. ‘The Citizens’ Initiativeproduces concern for the health and exclusion of young people, This was directly from the committee's report, and that is the way it is, and there is never too much talk about it. It is not too much to talk about when we look at this next point in the committee’s report: ‘In the data of the fourth and fifth graders of the school health survey34percent of respondents reported that they had been harassed during the academic year. “ So a third reported being bullied.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u9	Mr President! As Mr Kiuru has just said, help must be available from that school directly and at the lowest possible threshold. Thank you to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media for the good handling of this initiative. We heard more than 20 experts in the field, and it was certainly not clear to anyone how big the problem of young people's exclusion is and how much bullying it plays. The Minister of Education, Mr Andersson, said yesterday how the government is creating a binding dimension for school psychologists and curators to prevent bullying. This list should also include teacher dimensioning and consider different operating models for professionals working in schools. I can tell you that there is a ready-made model for this in the citizens' initiative under discussion. The Minister also stated that the aim is to ensure more effective assistance and support for students even in difficult situations. This, too, is the response to the model set out in the citizens' initiative. So now would be the time to put ideological ideas aside and go ahead with the welfare of the children — there have already been so many openings in this Chamber. For example, a representative: S.H.I.E.L.D. has submitted an initiative on the possibility of receiving compensation from a school bully and has asked in his written question for clear approaches to the prevention of bullying. Mr Heinonen has already submitted a bill for school bullying to the Criminal Code three times. Representative In his action initiative, the schoolman has proposed changing the teaching place of the bully. In several initiatives, representatives Meri and Elomaa have proposed the creation of posts for school peace ombudsmen. In addition to this citizens' initiative, I myself have collected the names of more than 100 representatives for my own legislative initiative, which requires that teachers be obliged to intervene in bullying situations at second level. What progress have all these proposals made? Can we say they don't work if we don't even try them? This is precisely what shows indifference and why we really cannot say that we have done everything we can to prevent bullying. There's been a lot of nice words. Vantaa is now thinking about the guards in the schools, and preparations for punishment have been started since the case. What do the guards want to accomplish? It may be a good patch in some cases, but do we then treat the cause or the result? In particular, punishments are not the first solution. The solution is preventive action and giving young people and children the keys to a good life. An adult is needed close to teaching and guiding, not to hand out punishments. Unfortunately, such an adult is missing from too many children at home, and that is why it must be found at a school that almost all children attend. I have been working hard for years to show the need and need for help from young people and children. I constantly come across comments that schools already have teachers, curators and psychologists. Where were they now when a child in Vantaa was traumatized in the middle of school day? If the current school services are sufficient, why does this happen? Resources are one answer, but not the only one. School health care can have as many as hundreds of children as their client base, and school psychologists are currently lacking about 500. How in the future could current school psychologists not only manage the activities of education services but also be an additional resource for the social welfare regions? The citizens' initiative proposes a law that obliges every adult in our country to go to primary school with pedagogical and therapeutic training and experience in working in the school world. The proposal is based on a pilot that has been experimented with Kerava, which was once incredibly successful in the school community. My goal is to launch a wider policy experiment and research on this. This really wouldn't cost much, but it just seems like the money is going somewhere else. With my initiative, I want to show that there are solutions to the problems in the school world. I am disappointed that the OAJ, the Trade Union for Education, did not consider the conclusions of the initiative to be correct and did not support the citizens' initiative. In conclusion, however, I would like to make a few more positive comments on the expert opinions. For example, Docent Jari Sinkkonen warmly supported the initiative and agreed that preventive work would bring many times the cost back. According to Professor Petri Virtanen, the CEO of Itla, it is appropriate to support pilot projects such as the initiative, which would mean extending our Kerava pilot to other localities. It is worth listening to the voices of experts and more than 52,000 citizens who have signed the citizens' initiative. I call for concrete measures to prevent the exclusion of children and young people and bullying at school. That is why we, together with the Finns of Peru, have objected to the report in committee. Instead of just fine words, we need strong will and action to combat problems. The presence of the Minister of Education would have been more than desirable today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u10	Mr President! Fear does not belong to any child’s school day, nor does fear belong to any child’s school trip. Fear that ‘I’m good enough’is not really a part of a child’s life, nor is it fear, ‘I’m sobering in Leaving aside, understatement, and bullying leave an eternal mark. At the same time, they all culminate in fear, fear of diversity. The ability of a small child to discern what is right and what is wrong always develops with the guidance of an adult, for no child was born to fear or alienate diversity. Now is the last moment for each of us to think about where fear of diversity arises. Where does the need to lower or promote one person come from? What's behind the bullying? There are many factors to staying out of the picture, and there is rarely one single reason for this. However, there is evidence and knowledge of factors that lead to exclusion and bullying. Many of them relate to the family of a child or young person. The diversity of problems and causes also means that multi-professional skills are needed to stop and stop bullying: teachers, psychologists and curators are needed, sometimes therapists and social workers. When a parent finds himself in a situation where his own child is not good enough, it breaks. When a child gets bullied in his everyday life, he shakes the whole family. If that's the case, we need support. A child can never survive being bullied alone. The bully also has educational adults. Support must also be provided for the home of the bully in order to get rid of the causes of bullying. The tentacles of bullying extend far beyond the school alone, and it is never possible to treat only what is seen as deeds outwards. Support for families in the context of bullying must always be taken into account. It is clear that the challenges in the school world are diverse. Schools, residential areas, habitats and people often differ significantly. That is why we also need a situation-specific approach to bullying and tackling exclusion, and we need to invest in it. Mr President! This is a difficult and serious matter. When bullying and exclusion occurs, there is only one solution: bullying must be stopped immediately. The administrator of each party shall be informed of the event. No one is entitled to shirk their responsibilities. An adult becomes a bully if he does not intervene immediately. It is important to consider what kind of food we give our children. Are we going to teach them how to survive with a warning? There is no warning to comfort a child whose innermost has been broken the most. But we also need to consider whether we are showing our children and young people acceptance of diversity or are directing them to fear it by our own actions. When we talk about the reason behind the bullying, there might be a key here. Do we give our children and young people room and food for emotional treatment? Do we teach them enough emotional and interaction skills, and do we give them room to get to know and, above all, understand diversity? Children and young people need situations where they also dare to ask an adult if there is a problem. It's not always familiar. Curious amazement, that is, the desire to understand another person, should always be permitted, but above all the opportunity, and it is in our hands to organise it. Everything must be based on the fact that there is only one kind of people in the world: equal, dignified people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u12	Mr President! We cannot close our eyes to the fact that even today and even now there is a child out there who is afraid, a youth who no longer sees the future, only questions: ‘What is wrong with me? “ “Why me?” Nothing is as heartbreaking as hearing a seven-year-old say he wants to die or getting a call from the authorities that a teenager has tried to commit suicide. The subject we are talking about today is extremely important, and I would like to thank the citizens' initiative for bringing it to the debate, because under no circumstances should any child’s distress be overtaken. It cannot be that when a child or young person is desperate to tell what is happening at home or how much he fears during recess, that need is ignored. It cannot be that our professionals are so overloaded that the child remains invisible that they drown in piles of paper on the desk. Under no circumstances can we afford to ignore the plight of any child or young person. In my earlier work, I could not help but hear the words of customers that, as a child, when they had tried to tell me what was happening at home — often in school or in health care — they had not responded to that distress. Maybe there was no time, maybe no resources, maybe there was no serious concern, or there was no way to intervene. Whatever the reason, the sad fact is that few children will tell you again. After 10 or 15 years, the customers I met in my work often told me again in a situation where they already had small children, where they were at the very end of fighting that cycle of generations. When circumstances are unreasonable, even the adult loses its strength, but when it comes to a small child who is completely dependent on the adults around him, it is quite unbearable for any of them to struggle in the midst of everyday life where security and care are unknown concepts, alone. The unsolvable fact, which we cannot deny here either, is that not everyone is able, not everyone is able to survive. One suicide is too much. Mr President! We have a responsibility to ensure that there are safe adults in every child’s life who take care of and safeguard him in all situations. We need stronger structures to support parenthood. We must succeed in supporting parenthood always from its first steps, the waiting period, the most painful differences and difficult life situations. We should support parents so that every child at home has someone to take care of so that every child can take for granted the love of the parent and the feeling that he is important and accepted as himself. In addition to that important parenthood, we then need that valuable professional field to complement that network of safe adults for every small person, because today too many professionals have gone to work in the early childhood care unit, school, student places, child welfare units, youth facilities or organisations to do the most valuable work: to safeguard childhood. The work these people do with a great heart, but above all with a heavy skill, is undervalued in our society. The value of that work may not always be measured directly in the next financial statements that could be mirrored when the budget is being built, but the value of that work is something that comes up in a shocking way when there are not enough factors for that work. We therefore need sufficient resources for everyday life with children and young people in all sectors, in a regionally equal way across sectoral boundaries, and at the same time we need to be able to take care of the work of those professionals. We cannot forget that there are children and young people for whom school is the only safe environment, the only place where someone takes care for a while, a place to breathe in the midst of the insecure everyday life and fear that may be at home. This is why it is important that the school is also able to carry out this safe task, but it should not primarily be the task of the school. For example, we need to secure the resources for child protection and family work at a better level. We must actively drive the transition to the family centre model and the construction of children's houses. We must invest in student and student care and bring a binding dimension to all levels of education, so that teachers can have peace to teach and students to learn peace first and foremost. And when we in this Chamber often talk about how much we owe, we less often stop and think about how many childhoods and youth we owe to those whose lives have been affected by the decisions made in this hall. We can no longer correct the experiences of him who, after ten years, wakes up in nightmares of running away from his bullies on the way to school. We cannot correct the self - esteem of the one whose integrity was violated as a young child in the worst way possible in his own home. And we cannot correct the emptiness carried with him, who learned that no one cares or helps, who, as a child, told us what was going on but whose need was minimized or rejected. But we can and must now ensure that we have a genuine future service field in which everyone actually gets help, including those who have experienced these difficult things in their lives and lived the real nightmare so that they can now cut off those chains of generations, experience whole adulthood after a broken childhood. By investing in the well-being of adults and, for example, in mental health and counselling or substance abuse services, we create an opportunity to help find the hopeful side of life, and when we succeed in doing so, we will make it easier for the next generation to experience that intact childhood. So we must be able to respond to every child’s distress. We know that the voice of the most vulnerable children is often left out. Children should not live in a class society and we should raise awareness of children's rights. It cannot be that children's rights are defended on the lawyers' table in the courtrooms. You have to defend it there in basic everyday life every day and every moment. And every time we succeed in preventing one act of violence against children, every time we succeed in preventing one child's school path from becoming a nightmare with school bullying or when we manage to support the resources of the family's parents in time for them to be able to bring home security, the euro that is expected for prevention will pay for itself, not to mention on the human side. At the end of the day, I would like to emphasise that I know how good the professionals in that field are doing to keep every child involved. I would like to wish each of them an enormous amount of strength to defend that safe childhood and to thank them for the work they have done.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u13	Mr President! Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers. This is really timely — not just because the school violence incident in Vantaa has just risen, but because bullying and acts of violence and nausea are still part of the everyday life of the Finnish school. When children and young people were questioned about the functioning of remote schools during the corona period, more than 48,000 children and young people responded. The results were somewhat surprising: 66 per cent replied that you can study at home in peace. Some pointed out that there is no bullying and harassment, but some said that, in fact, 30 percent, the bullying still persists in some way. This creates a rather sad picture and a worrying picture of the Finnish school. It may be said, however, that remote school enabled a thousand children to take such a break from repeated bullying. The bullying of children and young people is serious and can leave the individual with a lifelong trauma. Bullying experience replaces, drives to loneliness, cuts off school and career paths. The background to unemployment can be found in several studies of school-time bullying. At the outset, it is also good to clarify the terms when talking about it. Violence is violence, even if it is a child or a young person and the place where the school was committed. Bullying, on the other hand, is constant activity, discrimination, barking, breaking out of the crowd. Both have serious consequences and consequences for the lives of the parties involved — even the bullies carry things with them all their lives. The more effective intervention of adults and the additional ways in which schools intervene is what the citizens' initiative requires. Most teachers take real, genuine care of the students and try to tackle bullying and violence at school. The school’s student care groups are looking for solutions to recurring and continuous situations. Nice School, peer mediation and similar projects and operating models increase students’ own ways of settling disputes and breaking bullying by joint action by classmates who detect the situation. The committee's report also highlights good examples of policies that have produced good results through youth work at school or in Turku with a psychiatric nurse's resource in schools or in Lappeenranta by strengthening the skills of teachers. In Lappeenranta’s example, teachers have been trained to be a long-term, solution-oriented neuropsychiatric coach and have made the school’s approach a solution-centred one. Much is being done, therefore, but not enough for children, or sometimes the staff, to be safe at school. The citizens' initiative' proposal to increase mental health skills is, in my view, a good example of a model that would certainly increase resources and skills to tackle children's bad behaviour and nausea, and of the way to increase the support for pupils at school at a low threshold. It is essential that the school or educational institution and municipality have raised their minds, taken responsibility seriously and developed solutions and practices. In addition to school and children, families need support. Parents do not always understand the seriousness of their children’s actions and, on the other hand, many lack the means to grasp them. It is essential that there is sufficient teacher resources at school, small enough groups of teachers to deal with the events until the end of the cycle. This whole group issue is again strongly influenced by the municipal budget decisions in the autumn, and, of course, more widely here in Parliament when solving the local economic situation and social welfare reform. A permanent teachership would also be welcome, as Mr Koponen suggested. Adequate dimensioning is also needed for school psychologists and curators to help implement long-term support and community-wide solutions. There are recommendations on resources, but they are unfortunately not accessible to the municipalities. Indeed, the Government has committed itself to establishing a binding dimension for these student care tasks, and hopefully this issue will proceed swiftly. Legally, we should also strengthen the obligation of secondary teachers to tackle bullying. Let us go back to the concrete example of the bullying case. Imagine the situation at your place of work: Workmates would mess up your new shirt with markers, and the next day they'd beat you up. The boss would intervene when he had more important things to do and he was busy, and even then these guys would have interviews and detention. You'd be given a chance to move on to a new job. You'd have to build new social networks. At school, these factors and sufferers are children and young people, but an example certainly opens up how important it is to intervene. There are a few flaws here. Violence should be a police matter, and the police should have the resources and skills to deal with these issues with schools, children and young people — also this issue of responsibility for 15-year-olds should continue to be considered. Another worrying flaw in this is that the one who is often tempted is the one who has to change schools. There must be ways in which the municipality can also point out to the bully if the other means of infecting the school do not work, a new school place. Many good speeches have been made here about the urgency of the matter. For too long such a culture in Finland may have been, and we need to intervene soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u14	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and the citizens' initiative makers! In some ways it is frustrating time and again to talk in Parliament about this same problem. This is what we have been talking about from one parliamentary term to another, from one parliament to another, and this scourge even seems to be getting worse and worse. Of course, this is not a Finnish problem, but it is a global problem, but, above all, we should find solutions to how children in Finland could go to school safely without being bullied. And in recent days it has seemed that even the word “school bullying ”is awe of this problem — so much violence that we have had to read this week. In some way, a letter from artist Jope Ruonansuu’s memorial concert sent to the concert by our president of the Republic took me particularly deeply. The words of the wise president were eloquent. He concluded his letter: “Jope, Imene. “ Jope had been asked to be a godfather for kindness and unadulteratedness in his own childhood school. He did not have time to receive that assignment, nor did he have time to go there with our president to talk to the children about bullying and tackling it, about kindness and uncompromisingness, but our president promised: “Jope, I’mmenen.” Over the years, I have always put up various news about bullying in school. I have read the stories, the many that I myself had to face when I was a teacher, but above all since children, young people, their parents, but also teachers have approached this issue. In particular, I would like to thank the former Member of Parliament, Tiina Elovaara, who for a long time did excellent work to eradicate school bullying, and in these Parliaments, Mr Ari Koponen deserves special commendation for his work on school bullying, and he has also done this work before becoming a Member of Parliament, but, indeed, today the speeches made by the Greens have also been very deep-rooted, and I hope that these speeches will also have the message that would change our society more permanently. Various measures have been proposed. As a last step, I have even proposed criminalisation of bullying in schools, a clear entry in the law — even though bullying in schools is a crime today, but it would have been clearly recorded that it is a crime, and according to studies this would also have an impact. Measures have been proposed in which, according to the Swedish model, even a municipality, a school or a school could be held responsible if bullying has not been addressed effectively enough, but as a teacher, I also recognise the fact that it is not always easy to identify and tackle bullying and bullying. It is a terribly complex problem in our schools, in our society, and it is otherwise a skill for us adults too, that we should be able to live with each other in good agreement. A lot of good work has been done in Sweden, and I hope that certain measures can be put in place for us too, since all measures must be in the toolbox so that we can deal with this big scourge even more. Mr President! All the wonderful things happen during the Korona era, and Mr Heinos has also had more time, and I have also read Anna magazine. Anna had an excellent article in Hilppa Alango, which I encourage you all to read — it was in the spring of April, and I made a copy of it: “This is how school bullying left a mark on adult adults—expert: “It’s good to know what self-use is due An excellent article on how complex the problem of bullying at school is, how it is seen not only in the bully and the bullied but in all the things that affect the whole. “The most frequent experience of bullying in school is that ofadultual difficulties And for these young people the years are much longer than for us adults, even six months of bullying, one month of bullying, not to mention the constant bullying of the entire secondary school — they are much longer than for us these years, which is what we are sitting here in Parliament. That is why I feel particularly bad that we have not been able to do enough of this. When I myself have been here for 13 years, during that time, listen, many young people have had time to go through our comprehensive school and experience these measures. My conscience is probably not entirely pure either, but I have tried and I promise to continue to do so. Unicef has published a safe school day instruction Safe school day belongs to everyone, Johanna Laajanen's instructions on how to talk and intervene — by the way is also a very good message for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, could all of us adults be Jopes, weeds of kindness and unambitiousness? Let's all go, let's go together — I'm Jope.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u15	Mr President! This morning, I woke up in fear. I woke up to the fear that my child will be done the same as in Vantaa, that he will be pushed to the ground either by word or by deed. I realized there's nothing I can do to protect a child every minute, not in that schoolyard, not on the way to school, not in hobbies or social media. When a child is born, grows up and grows up, we parents have to rely on others to take care of him as well as us. That's the hard core of the welfare state. At the same time, we have to fear that what if your own child is mistreated? Unfortunately, this fear is no new thing. I recognized this morning’s fear as the fear I felt when my younger siblings started school. I believe that my parents will recognize this, and their parents will also recognize this same fear. Mr President! This isn't how it should be. It should not be the case that Finns are afraid to go from generation to generation to school and start schooling their own child. No one should have to be afraid of going to school, not one child, one young person or one close to them. At the moment, however, we have failed to protect children from bullying. Although bullying may seem to have decreased somewhat, unfortunately more than one third of the 4th and 5th graders have still been bullied in the past year. In the school health survey, about 7 percent reported being bullied once or several times a week. So almost a tenth of Finnish children are constantly bullied at school. The report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs rightly states that children and young people who face racism, homophobia or other forms of discrimination due to their minority background are particularly at risk of bullying at school. Children placed outside the home and children and young people with disabilities face bullying. Those who need support to get through school are also in a vulnerable position. It has therefore been recognised that, unfortunately, we have children who are in a particularly difficult position, whose parents need to think in particular about how their children will fare every day of school when they leave home for school. We all have a lot of work to do here. Adults are responsible for the model we set for children and young people. We must show that it is not acceptable to leave anyone outside, to discriminate or to disturb because of his background, but that everyone is valuable and everyone deserves respect. This is particularly important when we know that an increasing proportion of bullying is taking place in social media. How can we demand that children and young people treat each other with respect if we ourselves are not prepared to tackle bullying, harassment, racism, sexism or, for example, discrimination against people with disabilities in social media? How can we ask children for things not even all adults are ready to commit to? We must all set a better example for children and change the attitudes of this society so that no one is more vulnerable because of their background. Fortunately, the Government Programme has put forward a number of measures to address bullying and exclusion. This is indeed something that we must do everything we can to prevent, because the future of Finland really lies with children and young people. There must be zero tolerance for bullying, but simply saying this is not enough, as Members have said well in the past. Concrete practical means are needed and sufficient resources are needed to implement them — not only in individual schools, where a good model has been found, but all around Finland, every single Finnish school. According to the questionnaires, teachers need better capacity to tackle bullying, as the teacher-background representatives Kiuru and Heinonen raised well here. This is also a factor affecting well-being at work. I can only imagine what it's like to be a teacher who knows that you should be able to intervene better, but you just don't have the skills to recognise bullying and to have enough. That is why it is excellent that the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media raised in its report a concrete model, the Lappeenranta model, in which teachers have been trained to be a solution-centred neuropsychiatry trainer, which has really produced results and helped teachers to better address the mental health problems of children and young people as well as, for example, bullying. This approach is not an experiment, it is included in the school curriculum, and it will ensure that it is actually implemented in every school in the municipality. Another good example is the Turku model, where psychiatric nursing has been tried as part of school activities. It is great that these models are all around Finland, but now they should be made available everywhere, and that is what we should all be committed to now. It is good that this government is bringing in a dimension to ensure that there are enough school psychologists and cranes available at each school. This may mean that two smaller schools share a single professional, or, on the other hand, that more professionals are needed in a larger school. We know that situations vary from country to country, but it cannot be that when a child needs help he is offered a period of months. I just can't do that. This incident in Vantaa was a good reminder of that. In view of the fact that a child is the target of such a terrible act, there is no way to think that he will not be offered assistance until days or even weeks later. Help must be provided immediately, and therefore professionals must be present throughout Finland in the everyday life of the school. This requires not only speeches but also funding, which is why it is good that the government has now made a strong commitment to this. At the same time, as has been said, each of us can work towards tackling every case of bullying, harassment and discrimination, giving children the model of treating another person with respect. That is above all the task of our politicians when we stand on top of the nation's locker and hopefully show a good model.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u16	Mr President! The citizens' initiative has clear merit. The title of the initiative entitled ‘The problem of child exclusion in primary schools’is clear and It really should be done more strongly. I myself have worked in primary school for a very long time, for twenty years. So I know the industry, and I think I know what's going on in the front line. There are so many good things going on there. Every day someone learns to read, every day someone learns to write, every day someone learns to wait his own turn, every day someone says an encouraging word to another, every day the teacher teaches, every day the child learns. So they do heroic things in schools every single day. Besides these heroic acts, there are other things that happen. In the world of small people, where life is taught, there is also something that is well described by the citizens' initiative. Schools live, as they do in people’s lives, in an imperfect world. There is bullying in schools, the first steps of exclusion, the shortage of adult people, the inadequacy. It is an imperfection that must be countered. There is no magic trick for imperfections in schools. There are ways, however, and no one should run away from them. For example, the effectiveness of special education legislation and its inclusion, as well as the adequacy of the resources allocated to them, and the overall increase in resources for simultaneous education, special education and student guidance should continue to be critical. So there are ways, and living life is not space science. In the end, there are a few core issues that I have said before: 1) Is there a sufficient number of multi-professional skills in the world of children and young people? ( 2) Is there someone who has time to ask how the child is doing? 3) Will the schools be allowed to concentrate on the essentials? It is essential, for example, whether there is time in schools to teach the words “thanks”, “sorry” and “be good. ” What is essential is that we do not constantly break what is not broken. It is essential whether we succeed in teaching children and young people what is right and what is wrong. President! Attention should also be paid to the development, resilience and well-being of staff working with children and young people, both teachers and other professionals. Mr Kiuru, who has left the Chamber, also said very well that teacher training has an important role to play here. That's where it all comes from. After all, it's not that complicated. By adding to the package the functionality and health of teaching spaces, for example, we are already very advanced. What is happening in our schools and educational institutions, in other words, awareness of living life in general, is an absolutely central task for our decision-makers. Schools meet every day, every moment of every human being. That's why you shouldn't break it. It is also very wise to be able to discuss constructively the challenges facing the school world, the problems, such as the bullying and violence that have just arisen. We would therefore concentrate on discussing solutions, not on who is most guilty. The numerous good events in basic Finnish education are thanks to us all, and the numerous challenges are challenges for all of us. President! I consider the arguments of the Committee on Culture to be correct. The committee therefore believes that the legislation in force is a good basis for ensuring the well-being of children and young people in schools. Legislation also allows for further development both locally and nationally, as described in the objective of the citizens' initiative. The problem is not that the current model prevents sensible action, but what is happening inside it. Do those people who work in schools do the right thing? Do they have time for that? President! I would like to thank the people who have taken up the citizens' initiative very much. The citizens' initiative will certainly be able to harness its merits in all of this large whole, which would support the efforts of the initiative, the genuine and correct efforts of the initiative towards a better and safer school and, in general, towards a more humane life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u17	Mr President! Every child and young person in this country should have the right to go to school safely. The problems raised by the citizens' initiative for children and young people who are being bullied must be taken seriously. The right to live a daily life without fear of violence or being tempted or discriminated against equally applies to younger members of our society as well as to adults. Teachers and school adults have a statutory obligation to secure a safe school environment for students. It is clear that schools must be able to do more to stop bullying and safeguard children's rights. We in the Left Alliance welcome the fact that the government programme was able to record the dimensions binding on school psychologists and curators and that those measurements will soon be the most true. We in the Left Alliance have been calling for a dimension for a long time. Even in difficult situations, students must be guaranteed the help and support they need. The number of clients of school psychologists and curators is currently completely disproportionate. We believe that the objectives of the initiative can be achieved by strengthening existing resources for student care, as was also stated in the expert opinions in the Committee on Education. The Left Alliance wants enough psychologists, nurses and curators in kindergartens, primary school and secondary school. We believe that investing in low-threshold services is the best way to provide preventive support for young people. The size of the teaching groups also directly affects the working environment of schools and the opportunities for students to receive individual support. That is why basic education also requires a teacher’s dimension that secures sufficiently small groups. Against this background, it is very worrying that many municipalities are now planning savings on primary schools under the guise of the corona, which would, among other things, increase group sizes. We must now be patient, especially since the government has just decided in a row on a huge package of municipal support. Mr President! I would like to make one point here. When this citizens' initiative was discussed for the first time, criticism of those who did not agree with the proposal of the citizens' initiative was raised in the Chamber, and that is the same again today. Of course, criticism can be expressed, but it is inappropriate to say that disagreeing with the method itself would mean underestimating school bullying as a phenomenon and its seriousness. I am absolutely sure that all of us in this Chamber want the bullying to stop — everyone. However, as the report by the Committee on Culture and Education and the numerous expert opinions that have been heard for it — the absolute majority of them — show, it is precisely the tool that is not the most sensible one. That is what the vast majority of those opinions said. Those experts who mentioned Koponen were quite the exception. We have functioning structures and professionals. What we need is to provide sufficient resources for school safety and to train staff to recognise the multidimensional nature of bullying. In the case of Vantaa, too, it was very incriminating that physical violence was described by many students in the school. Temptation thus occurs both in the real world and in social media and, unfortunately, still often hides itself completely from adults. And that was a good point that Timo Heinonen made here today: still the experience of children and young people is that adults do not recognize, do not see bullying. Open physical violence is often the most brutal outcome. Prior to this, there has often been a long journey of bullying, which is primarily about the ill health of the school community. School bullying and school violence are not just a matter of individuality; it is a collective issue for the whole school. There has now been quite a lot of criticism of the Nice School project in recent days, and there may often be grounds for doing so. And I personally see that one problem with it is precisely that the Nice School project may not be able to identify precisely the collective features of this school violence. Then it is good to remember that school is not isolated from the surrounding society, but its reflection. Thus, social inequality is also reflected in the school world, and all of this is also linked to bullying at school and violence at school. Mr President! Then there is one more thing I would like to correct at this end. Mr Koponen mentioned in his own speech that we have already gone so far as to consider hiring guards in schools in Vantaa, and that this impulse then left your party president's tweet. Unfortunately, this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u19	Mr President! He was taken out of the crowd, pushed, sent dirty messages, moaned in social media, laughed in front of others, mocked with conviction, intimidated, threatened and beaten. He missed school. He finally got help, but it was pretty late. When self - esteem and self - esteem are slowly broken and fear is engulfed, rehabilitation and empowerment take time. It'll help a little bit. New friends, good hobbies and safe adults and communities help. He's not the only one. I've been dealing with them, broken kids, headmaster and special teacher for over 20 years. There is still work to be done to eradicate bullying. We can set a pattern by respecting the diversity and diversity of ourselves, by speaking with appreciation to one another and to one another. Mr Koponen's citizens' initiative before his term of office is quite right. Thank you, Mr Koponen, for taking the initiative. According to our Constitution, children and young people must be treated equally in school as individuals. The student's support must be flexible, long-term and subject to change. Support should be provided for as long as necessary and at the level and form necessary. The joint task of all school staff, including teachers, nurses, curators and psychologists, is to support the growth and development of children and young people. Children must be supported by sufficiently safe adults. The task of the school as a whole is to prevent and tackle bullying immediately. Bullying should be stopped immediately. Above all, preventive work is needed. It is a question of the right attitude, but it also requires sufficient resources. As has already been said here, existing legislation is a good basis for safeguarding and promoting the well-being of children and young people in schools. The Student and Student Care Act forms a whole that obliges the organiser to ensure the student's well-being and the necessary individual and community support. We are working on good development projects which respond to the need for this initiative. It is essential to ensure that the services to support pupils are properly allocated and adequately funded. School psychologist and curator services must be provided throughout the country. There has been a shortage of experts in many localities. Fortunately, we have received new higher education places and training in different parts of our country; it is also important to ensure that the services are available to the student on a low threshold, as far as possible directly in schools and educational institutions. This must be taken into account in the social reform. Support should be provided at school, close to the student, with grass roots. Studies show that there are great differences between schools in this regard. I hope that the social security reform will balance these differences so that everyone can get help. The working group on the prevention of bullying and school peace highlighted the need not only to talk about bullying but also to focus on building a positive culture of action and in particular on the role of school principals and early education leaders in this task. Support positive and encouraging leadership in the fight against bullying. This also requires new and complementary learning according to the idea of continuous learning. Support will also be given to families to eradicate the marginalisation that goes beyond generations. Prejudice and a discriminatory attitude toward others can also take place in the family. Not every family has the strength or the ability to notice the illness of their own child. Family centers are needed where children, young people, fathers and mothers and all the educators receive support from the same door. Mr President! The government program sets zero tolerance for bullying. This is our work together. And as Mr Kivisaari said above, it is good that we learn to say ‘thank you’, ‘be good’and ‘sorry’, to distinguish between right and wrong, good and evil,to remember that every human being is valuable. These are the ideas that we can take forward together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u20	Mr President! The citizens' initiative seeks to address the problems leading to the exclusion of children and young people in primary schools, and the very specific tip that has now been a great source of debate here is the prevention of bullying in schools. Despite the variety of fun school and other bullying prevention projects, the problem is persistent. It requires decisive intervention. At its worst, bullying at school is cruel physical or mental abuse, and it is always offensive to human dignity. It can leave a person with permanent mental damage. Self - esteemed injuries are reflected in man’s well - being in a long and many ways, and the victim of easy bullying thinks he is bad because he is being bullied. The teacher doesn't always notice bullying. The bullied student does not necessarily want to tell an adult about it: bullying may be a shame, the handling of the matter is frightening, or fear that telling an adult will not help, but that bullying will get even worse. Only about half of the bullies tell someone about bullying, so half of the bullying is completely in the dark. Indirect bullying is reported less often to a teacher than direct and open, and bullying is more likely to be reported at home than at school. The younger the schoolchildren are and the more often they are bullied, the more likely they are to tell of bullying. One reason why children don't tell about bullying is because they don't think anyone's getting involved. Only about half of all children or all students believe that the teacher would interfere with bullying. School bullying is linked to exclusion in many ways, both for bullies and for bullies. Studies show that children have four preoccupational risk factors: low educational levels of parents, problems with substance abuse and mental health, or long-term need for income support, as well as major changes in family structure, such as divorces. Displacement begins early in childhood, so early family support is much more effective than responsive measures. Preventive measures are therefore needed even before primary school: in early childhood education, as well as in support of families. And in order to avoid any children having to start their lives as if from a distance, support should be given to parents who are at risk in particular. Children in particular who need special support are often left without adequate help at school, and the number of people in need of support has increased sharply in recent years. Neuropsychiatric abnormalities, for example, expose to exclusion and consume resources. Seventy per cent of children who have been placed have a neuropsychiatric diagnosis. Sensitivity and learning difficulties expose people to disorder, and the open learning environments and classless education that come into fashion bring additional challenges, especially for children with these problems. From the outset, schooling can become a series of failures. Unfortunately, when the financial and social resources of the family are scarce and the resources to support the child are inadequate, this extension of the compulsory education age proposed by the government and this extra school year will not help. That's where the help comes too late. Group sizes are still too large to meet specific needs. As a result, those pupils who need support will not receive support and others will not receive enough education when the teacher’s time goes to those who need support. We would also need a new type of small group education for children who need special support. There has been a great deal of unity in this Chamber about the need for statutory care for the elderly, and the same would also be needed for school. This has been opposed for many years, on the basis of their own discretion, but the problems have grown, so it is time to recognise that the law should also clearly provide for the number of pupils to be assigned to a single teacher. In addition to sufficiently small group sizes, resources are needed for student care: services for both health care, school curators and school psychologists. Yesterday, the Finnish Psychologists Association issued a critical statement on the draft law on government social welfare reform, which would remove school psychologists from schools, both physically, in terms of the content of work and organisationally. Cooperation with the entire school to prevent these problems is essential in the work of a psychologist in student care. The basic idea of student care is that help and support are available in everyday life. It is easy to apply to a school psychologist if the employee is familiar with the school’s everyday life. If school psychologists were now transferred to the social welfare area as proposed by the government, the connection with school and educational institutions, children and young people would be broken and the contact with teachers and principals with whom the study care work is carried out would be broken. Concern has arisen as to whether the aim is to transfer current school psychologists to social services, even though there are currently several hundred mental health professionals at school. Finally, Mr President, it is the responsibility of all — adults, parents of bullies and bullies, teachers, other adults in school, authorities, us decision-makers. And also children and young people who witness or see, for example, a social media update on the subject have a responsibility to report to an adult. ‘The worst is not the worst
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u21	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Koponen for his work on this initiative. In Finland, as in many other countries, bullying, mental and physical violence are very serious, sad and difficult to eradicate. Bullying is never the cause of the bullied. The bully will find a reason for bullying anywhere. Also, bullying at school is never harmless. It has been studied to cause serious long-term psychosocial effects, including suicidal thoughts, anxiety and depression. Bullying always has a negative effect on self - esteem. Bullying can trigger feelings of insurmountable hatred insecure social skills and cause serious consequences, not to mention the traces of physical violence. The Mannerheim League for Child Welfare defines bullying as a group phenomenon involving a distorted pursuit of power. Bullying affects more than just the bully and the tormented victim. A bully may have an accomplice who does not start bullying but easily gets involved. The Mannerheim League for Child Welfare also reminds us that one of the forms of bullying is non-interference, or silent acceptance. Dr. Samil Aledin has studied young people’s brand bullying, who are harassed by a young person whose clothes, cell phone, sneakers or, for example, a school bag are not the right brand. A similar message has come from parents who have told us that children’s clothes in good condition are not even good enough for flea markets unless they have the right sign. No one deserves to be left out and bullied. We all want to belong to the flock and be accepted. How, then, will bullying be eliminated from the children if we fail to root it out even among us adults? How can we demand polite behavior from children, acceptance of diversity and respect for human dignity if we cannot set an example ourselves? This is what Mrs Suomela asked in her own speech a moment ago. Social media has made bullying, understatement and threats even easier. It is very easy to play the king of the hill anonymously and faceless by sharing various threats. Adult activities are based entirely on the same behaviors as those of an uncertain but defiant student who wants to show his courage but does not dare to do so by his own actions, but by bullying the weaker or those who defend the weaker. The only right option is zero tolerance. The responsibility for a secure atmosphere of attitude lies with us all. Zero tolerance starts from intervention in every inappropriate debate and situation, and it demands of each of us the courage to act and defend another person. We cannot afford to lose any children or young people, and we must protect the self-esteem of young people and children by all means possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u22	Mr President! In its report on this citizens' initiative, the Committee on Education has pointed out that the reason behind the exclusion of children and young people is often bullying at school. The citizens' initiative addresses a major, serious and heartbreaking problem. In his own speech, representative Heinonen well described the long - term effects of bullying on the life of the afflicted. On Monday, the City of Vantaa announced that 15 events took place at a school in Vantaa. A serious act of violence committed by sixth-graders at the end of September. According to the police, four students between 12 and 13 years of age are suspected of assaulting an 11-year-old at school. The threatening situation at the school had been constant for the victim, and the child had been afraid to go to school. The efforts of parents to intervene had not produced the desired result. Mr President! We have to get rid of the bullying right away. There must be zero tolerance for physical and mental violence. No one should have to be afraid at school. When bullying cannot be stopped, it can end up in serious crime. Unfortunately, school violence, the fact that a child has been abused in school, is not a unique situation. Bullying becomes more acute in cases known to the police only in Helsinki on a weekly basis. Of course, bullying at school is an inappropriate term for assault, which is violence and a serious crime. In this context, attention should also be paid to the challenges of tackling crimes committed by persons under 15 years of age and the problems of the victim's legal security when the offender is under 15 years of age. Mr President! Assistance and support must be available immediately and on a low threshold in the daily lives of schools. However, the government is moving school psychologists and curators away from the headmaster to the mercy of the social welfare organisation. Here too, there goes one concrete aid from the principals to tackling school violence and bullying. We can't afford this. I am also concerned about the government's plans, which will in practice mean cuts in municipalities' resources for basic education. The Government’s project to extend compulsory education without adequate resources is threatening to lead municipalities to cuts from basic education, instead of investing in the strengthening of basic education and the ability of teachers to ensure adequate personal support for each student and a safe school learning environment. The Coalition Party would invest the money earmarked for the implementation of compulsory education in order to strengthen basic education and to implement early support. Investing in basic education and early support, early years, would be the most effective way to prevent bullying, exclusion and falling. Problems, especially bullying, must be tackled immediately on a low threshold. Mr President! The Minister of Education has promised to convene parties to consider the prevention of bullying. It is good that politicians and officials are discussing this issue, but the government can no longer bury in the working groups the violence and bullying of schools and their intervention. During the last parliamentary term, a report was prepared under the leadership of Minister of Education Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, which contained 24 proposals for measures to prevent and tackle bullying. Some of these proposals had already been implemented, and the government would now have a place to look at the state of implementation of these proposals for this government. In any case, fine speeches and working groups are no longer enough. We need action from the government. We need to get to grips with it. I hope that's how the government works. We will see what the government is doing in order to ensure the peace in school and the mental and physical integrity of each child — with all the support of the government. The question is whether teachers have sufficient means and tools. And what is the government’s message to the many concerned parents whose child is afraid to go to school tomorrow morning, and to the parents who are trying to find ways to secure the peace of their child’s school?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u23	Mr President! It has been a pleasure to listen to these very good speeches in this debate. The initiative has drawn attention to a very important issue, the exclusion of children and young people and the importance of a safe school environment for the well-being of children and young people. Studies show that being tempted leaves permanent traces and has a significant impact on the future stages of an individual’s life. Cooperation between all actors is needed to prevent bullying. Students, teachers, guardians and student care workers and authorities must have a common understanding of how to tackle bullying. The bullying situation makes all adults feel much better, and it is therefore essential that there is a clear approach and tools to deal with a challenging situation so that no one closes their eyes and turns their backs in a difficult situation. School abuse must be tackled by every adult, and an adult who proves the situation cannot turn a blind eye to the situation. Children and young people need to be confident that adults will help. The results of the school health survey show that the problem is widespread and it is clear that better tools are needed to identify and solve the problem. We cannot accept that there are children in Finland who are subjected to mental or physical abuse on a daily basis. Mr President! Bullying is a vague and disparaging expression that does not reflect the seriousness or illegality of an individual act. There are challenges to normal growth and development. The skills of creating and maintaining social relations are only developing for schoolchildren, and therefore there are conflicts between schoolchildren. However, normal growth and development do not include acts fulfilling the characteristics of crime. It's up to the authorities to find out. The seriousness of the acts must be described by their proper names. An unlawful act — such as assault, illegal threats, theft, injury, defamation, violation of media peace, conspiracy or persecution — cannot be mitigated simply because it is committed in the school’s territory. In addition, acts that do not fulfill the characteristics of crime and are not illegal in themselves are perceived as bullying. However, these acts are also serious and should be responded to immediately. Mr President! The previous speeches have already described the fact that we in Lappeenranta have invested in the training of teachers. We want to develop a solution-oriented culture in schools, and most of our school teachers have been trained as nepsy coaches. In addition, we in South Karelia have created an operating model to support teachers, which helps to identify the characteristics of various criminal acts and to act in a manner appropriate to each situation. Schools have also ensured that everyone recognises responsibility issues and reporting obligations are not left unused. In South Karelia, there is a working group on illegal acts, consisting of representatives of various municipal authorities, the South Karelia Social and Health District and the South Karelia Rescue Department and the police. This working group has drawn up a joint instruction for the whole province to address illegal activities in schools. In South Karelia, the word ‘school bullying’ is no longer used at all, but is spoken of as illegal acts by their real names. The entire school community — pupils, teachers and also guardians — has been taught to recognise the characteristics of actions. As far as all actions are concerned, everyone is also aware of the measures to be taken in these cases. Teachers are supported by clear guidelines and a list of measures to be taken in which situation. For example, an act that fills the mark of abuse is when a student beats or kicks one or pours another into the ground, and so on, and in that case the code of conduct is to report it to the police. A key feature of this approach is the definition of a process that follows the use of the reporting obligation. After the report from the school, the offender is addressed in the presence of a legal representative and a police officer. The interview will be convened by the legal representatives of the children and young people of Eksote, and the police will be represented by those involved in the preventive work of the police. South Karelia’s operating model has proven to be effective. The process also includes the curator’s follow-up meetings after the performance and has enabled the recurrence of events to be prevented. For example, in 2019 200 interviews had been organised in South Karelia and only one factor had renewed its actions. Mr President! In South Karelia, tools and courage have been found to intervene in activities that endanger the growth and development of children and young people. I would like this approach to be extended elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u24	Mr President! When the citizens' initiative receives more than 50,000 signatures, it is a sign that the message from the citizens is strong and that we want it to be dealt with here in the Chamber. This citizens' initiative includes the provision of an adult with therapeutic capacity for every primary school in our country. I warmly support this citizens' initiative. In the Education Committee, this citizens' initiative did not go through. There was an objection — Koponen, Juuso and Antikainen — made here by Ari Koponen in his speech. I therefore also support his objection. At the same time, I would like to thank Ari Kopo, who is a fundamental Finn, for drawing up and moving forward this citizens' initiative, and I would also like to thank all the signatories. It is absolutely essential. Then why is someone picking on someone else? There could be a lot of reasons. A bully may have low self - esteem, difficult home conditions, perhaps not being cared for enough, ignored or has no boundaries or proper knowledge of how to act. What about the bullied? Often there is no reason why someone is being bullied. But it's obvious that it's shocking if you get bullied. It may be a thing to be tempted that it is throughout life in mind and also makes life difficult in the future — whether it has lasted weeks, months, or even years at school. What do I miss about old times, school days? I could use a little more discipline in the schools. I could really use a code of conduct and presentation and teaching. I would be more in favour of paying attention to others and bringing it up more in schools. Village schools are discontinued one after the other, and there are only large units. I see that there is one thing that is not necessarily a good development — that there are large units and that there are 500, 1000, 2000 pupils in one school. Not that there's no bullying in village schools. I mean, there's always been one, right? But you can better control if you have a smaller unit. Student care has come up. Definitely the curator and psychologist must be close to the school — even in the future when there is social reform. The help must be close and not far away. A few words about the new curriculum. There is phenomenal learning, self-directed learning, schoolchildren should be more responsible for themselves, there is indifference. These are such things that it is not necessarily just good things to say about them. In many schools today, even nearly half of the class is covered by special education, and this is alarming. We need enough teachers. Yes, a report was made — last season when I was in Parliament, a new strategy and research on this school bullying was carried out during that time. The procedures have been rather weak. If we know what might help to make sure there is no bullying at school, then hurry up. I've been on the Civilization Committee for eight years, two seasons. Now I have different committees this season. But during that time, I made two legislative proposals to set up a school peace ombudsman. It did not just mean that it would be a further appointment, but it came to mind that it could be a good solution. Some years ago I also made a Facebook update where I asked to contact — I put my own phone number — if there are people, children, young people or parents who have noticed that school bullying has not been addressed quickly enough. I wanted more information, and there were a huge number of contacts. I also went to a few homes to talk, and I contacted many schools. It is very important that the school’s principal seizes and the school immediately seizes the situation if it is discovered that there is bullying — immediately, immediately, that it does not get bad, as has been the case recently with some very hard events that physically attack someone else so that even life is in danger. In other words, I would like the police to be present when there are serious school bullying cases. And it would be good if things could be negotiated. It's always a better solution. But the most important thing is that bullying is addressed and that zero tolerance is maintained. This is an important issue. We have been talking about this for years, but measures have become scarce. I hope that this will be tackled quickly. Good citizens' initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u25	Mr President! The subject of the citizens' initiative under discussion is excellent and, unfortunately, due to the very violent incident at the Kytöpuisto school in Vantaa, it is also very topical. One case of violence in schools, mental or physical, is far too much. Every child and young person and also the adult of the school must have the right to peace in school. We must have clear policies to eradicate bullying at school, and we must also be able to create an atmosphere in schools and also in society as a whole, where there is simply no room for bullying, violence, subjugation and other disturbances. However, in its report, the Education Committee stated that existing legislation, i.e. the Student and Student Care Act, which was reformed between 2011 and 2015, provides a good basis for safeguarding and promoting the well-being of children and young people in schools and that no new legislation is needed in that respect. It is therefore a priority to strengthen the implementation of existing legislation by developing activities at all levels of education. The actual proposal of the initiative — the activities of a therapeutic person in primary schools — is indeed already included in the current legislation, that is to say, this is the reason why the initiative was rejected, although the subject itself is very important and it is necessary to discuss this. With reference to what has been said in the Chamber, it is quite clear that the forthcoming social reform must ensure that the services of student care — as well as those of curators and psychologists that are included in them — will continue to be available and will be present there at school premises, as is the case with the current Student and Student Care Act. In other words, it is a community service that must be available there in the school community. This is an important and central issue for the well-being of school communities. Mr President! There is now a lot of work to be done, and action has been taken. Sanna Marin’s Government Programme brings numerous improvements from early childhood education to the second stage, which supports children and young people in a variety of places of life and which give teachers and other staff in kindergartens and schools new opportunities to improve children’s well-being and at the same time prevent bullying. First of all, I would like to mention the three-step model of early childhood education decided on in the budget debate. So it is a similar model that has been offered in basic education so far, and even when we were actually discussing that student and study care in 2011-2015, it was raised in expert hearings that such a similar model would also be needed for early childhood education. Fortunately, it is now in Marin's government programme and, indeed, next year's budget for its construction and implementation is set at EUR 15 million, which means that it is a completely new structural measure to strengthen the quality and equality of early childhood education. In other words, three - step support for early childhood education has long been expected, and what is early intervention in children’s problems. This is a really great and important thing, and it is absolutely essential that it can be eradicated even from that early education point of view. In fact, this prevention of bullying was added to the early childhood education law last season when we dealt with the law last time. So little progress is being made in this direction as well. Another new issue that the Marin government develops is the Finnish model of hobby. This will guarantee every child and young person a genuine opportunity for a pleasant hobby in connection with school day, while at the same time strengthening the morning and afternoon activities of schools and their quality, club activities and cooperation between municipalities and third sector actors. This will also contribute to improving the well-being of children and young people in school communities, and it is of course clear that the better the school community works, the less bullying happens and the easier it is to tackle. Important progress has also been made in these areas. Mr President! The extension of compulsory education also involves a number of measures to support the equal and equal treatment of children in the learning process. A student guidance development programme on basic education, vocational education and upper secondary school education has also been launched. In fact, EUR 19 million has been earmarked for the implementation of this development programme per year, of which EUR 14.7 million is for permanent funding for the extension of compulsory education and EUR 4.3 million for project funding — quite a lot of money for good. To improve the quality and equality of early childhood education and basic education, EUR 180 million will be invested over three years in basic education and EUR 125 million in early childhood education. The objective of the Justice Skills Development Programme is to ensure the quality of vocational training and a total of EUR 270 million has been set aside for the implementation of the project over a three-year period. So these are the things we'll find here. In addition, according to the Government Programme, student and student care services will be strengthened at all levels of education and, most importantly, binding dimensions will be laid down for student care services. EUR 29 million has been earmarked for this. The forthcoming compulsory education law will lay down the principle of guiding and supporting the compulsory youth in the joint stages of the educational path. Regulatory and supervisory responsibilities are defined in the legislation so that one party’s control and control responsibilities will only end when the other party’s control and control responsibilities start. This will ensure that a young person who is subject to education does not fall outside the support network at any time. In fact, this compulsory education law itself is the best prevention of exclusion, because many experts who we in the Committee on Education and Education hear say that education is the best way to prevent exclusion, and it was also a big issue in this initiative. It must therefore be said that the government of Prime Minister Marin is working very hard to tackle the exclusion of children and young people and other problems throughout the education chain. The concerns of the citizens' initiative will be answered, and there is no need for further action right now. Touching speeches have been made here about bullying at school, and I am quite sure that the whole of Parliament agrees that any bullying is too much.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u26	Mr President! At first, in line with the protest of the Finns of Peru, I will make a motion that we made in that Committee on Education. We had some doubts here that Mr Koponen did make this proposal, but if he did not, then I will do it now. In general, this fine citizens' initiative by Mr Koponen proposes the adoption of a law that obliges an adult with therapeutic abilities to every primary school in our country. As part of the proceedings of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, we heard a number of experts on this subject. The message was clear. More support should be given to children and young people in schools, and this is what this citizens' initiative is based on. I've worked in Child Welfare myself before I was a congressman. Children and adolescents are becoming increasingly sick. Since this is the case, it is clear that we need new ways of working, and this citizens' initiative responds to this. Mr President! The Constitution guarantees everyone the right to personal freedom, integrity and security. The Basic Education Act has also strengthened the realisation of these rights by mentioning the need to protect the student against violence, bullying and harassment. School bullying can be a common name, for example, for abuse, extortion, illegal threats, defamation, deprivation of liberty and coercion, all of which are criminal offences mentioned in the Criminal Code. My question is: How would you feel if you were subjected to violence at your workplace almost daily? The principal and the teachers are primarily responsible for teaching, but the ever-increasing workload is really putting them in a tight spot. The Group of Finns believes that supporting young people more strongly in schools and educational institutions is an important protection against exclusion. Pursuant to Section 29 of the Basic Education Act, Section 21 of the Upper Secondary Education Act and Section 28 of the Vocational Education Act, students and students are entitled to a safe study environment. We believe that these points of law are not being fulfilled at the moment. The worst new example is now this act of violence in Vantaa, in which the boy was strangled and beaten unconscious. I wish him and his family a great deal of strength and strength, and I hope that these people who are responsible for this will be held accountable, and by this I mean not only the perpetrators of violence, but also the school, which has clearly violated its obligations. Mr President! Individuals, foundations, non-governmental organisations and private individuals in charge of education have long sought ways to prevent school bullying and to create a safe, peaceful and optimal learning environment for our schools around Finland. True Finns feel that new models of action should be introduced into the school world to support an increasingly demanding and expanding school community. That is the answer to this citizens' initiative. We put forward and continue to suggest that Parliament calls on the Government to take measures to implement the reform in accordance with the citizens' initiative KAA 4/2019 vp. Regrettably, the representatives of the government parties in the Committee on Civilization overturned our proposals. We now appeal to you to adopt this citizens' initiative, which is more important than ever before. Government, you now have the power to do this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u27	Mr President! I'm sure there's not too much talk of bullying at school. But we also need to do what we have to do. To eradicate bullying, this house must do everything it can. At first, I would like to express my thanks to Mr Koponen, who has helped us to bring this important issue to the table. I share the view expressed in the initiative that the fight against bullying needs additional input and that adding a safe adult with therapeutic skills to schools would improve the situation. However, I see that the current situation has been partly driven by political decisions and partly by cultural change. There is a message from the teachers that their tools to address disturbing students and bullying cases are, according to the messages, too limited. Removing the distraction from the classroom or intervening in a bullying situation means, in the worst cases, accusing the teacher of himself. This is what we've been reading about in the media. At worst, teachers will have to call the police and the situation will continue until outside help is received. One conscious choice that has begun to be made in schools is the so-called ‘inclusive model’. This means that pupils who need special needs are transferred to so-called normal classes and special assistance follows the student into a new environment — a beautiful idea and quite worthy. The problem, however, is that in practice the resources for special assistance have not been sufficient and problems in the categories have arisen. The special classes are functional: they provide students with individual assistance and better resources to carry. School bullying is particularly reprehensible. It must have zero tolerance and be weeded out wherever it occurs. Bullying affects mental well - being, social relations, leaving a mark that even affects adulthood. Teachers have a key role to play. They are present in the daily routine of bullying. We have to give them the tools to interfere with bullying. Yet, often even teachers do not see everything. Things should be cleared up, and it is therefore very important to involve the home. After-care also in us adults, unfortunately, there are those child-minded who cannot see for themselves when it would make sense to allow professionals to do their work in peace. At worst, they are themselves guilty of bullying. The bullies should be offered all the help they can, and the solution under no circumstances must be that the bullied person has to step aside and move to another school. Mr President! The report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs justifies the rejection of the citizens' initiative on the grounds that the existing law and the existing structures are sufficient. We know all the obligations of the Basic Education Act and the Student and Student Care Act in order to ensure peace in schools. We know that teachers, nurses, doctors, curators and psychologists are working on these issues. However, it has not been enough. This did not prevent child abuse at school in Vantaa this week. That didn't stop the child from being bullied for months. New solutions are therefore needed. On the basis of the above, I support the adoption of the citizens' initiative and therefore also support the proposal made by Mr Antikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u28	Mr President! I would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers for their very good comments on bullying at school. There is reason to keep talking about the prevention of bullying, but unfortunately mere speech does not sufficiently correct matters in relation to it. I would also like to thank the committee's expert report. The messages I have received in my short career from the parents of bullied children have broken my heart time and again. Especially when things are very complex, it is extremely important that we have a united opinion throughout Parliament on the seriousness of school bullying. During the previous government term, an operational expert report was submitted to stop school bullying and its implementation began immediately. Now the Government aims to improve the conditions for ensuring the well-being of children and young people in early childhood education and basic education — well done. Anti-fraud efforts should continue to be stepped up. We need to be able to pick on those root causes, why someone's picking on us. This is the only way we can prevent the suffering of children. Improvement of damage is extremely important, but every case that has been prevented is to prevent the suffering of many people. As has been announced in this Chamber, we need action. I am therefore very concerned about whether the government is taking the wrong course of action. The government drives in its social services package, contrary to the messages of the OAJ and the Psychologists' Association, psychologists and curators from school to social services. The draft government proposal would remove school psychologists from schools, both physically and in terms of the content of the work and organisationally. This is not the only flaw in the social package, but at this point I would like to see the government really reconsidering this matter as a matter of urgency. The welfare of children must always be at the centre. Mr President! The saddest thing about this whole thing is that many statistics show that people in Finland are feeling better than ever before — yet so many people are feeling really bad. There is a lot of work to be done for a better childhood, youth and life, including in Parliament. However, this does not diminish the responsibility of parents and adults as an extremely important example and security. How can we require our children to understand differences, manners, and respect for others if we adults do not master these skills? I hope, therefore, that this responsibility will be emphasised more and more in these discussions, because if we think that we are dealing best with our children's concerns only through the actions of the State and through the laws, we, for our part, recognise the idea that I am completely unfamiliar with the idea that a child could be born evil and bullying. When we all act more closely, in accordance with our responsibilities, adults support one another and children, while at the same time believing in the role of the state, we can make a difference so that no one has to be tempted or tempted.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u29	Mr President! Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers and also to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, which has studied the subject very carefully. At the beginning, however, it should be said, as the committee does, that the legislation currently in force is a good basis for ensuring and promoting the well-being of children and young people in schools. In addition, the committee has stated that the priority is to improve the implementation of existing legislation by developing activities at all levels of education. But, ladies and gentlemen, what can be done in practice? It has been widely studied and recognised that many factors leading to exclusion affect people’s lives at an early stage. One example is bullying. Other things that are often visible to children and young people in everyday life are loneliness, lack of friends or issues arising from their own family background, such as poverty or the difficult situation and illness of parents, physical or mental violence and neglect in the worst cases. When a child or young person accumulates enough factors, the whole can lead to exclusion. On the other hand, the lack of factors relevant to well - being is motivated by the lack of things in the life of a child or young person that have a positive impact on the development of a child and a young person and on the formation of a balanced and healthy life - management. The school is a central place in Finland where these issues that are relevant to well-being and equal opportunities can be offered to children. In the basic curriculum of basic education, well-being is defined as one of the guiding principles. The starting point of the school community is to create a safe and healthy environment for children and young people, an environment where you can learn and grow safely. Mr President! Adults who are present in school’s everyday life with children and young people must have the ability to identify and address problems in good time. The starting point is already that all school staff — teachers, nurses, curators, psychologists — are working together to support the growth and development of children and young people, prevent bullying and tackle it if it occurs. However, despite good goals and a lot of success, many children do not receive sufficient support. What, then, could be better done in school’s everyday life? As highlighted in the Government Programme, the key to the solution is to maintain and develop the skills of existing personnel. Attention should be paid to developing the skills of teachers and other professionals, their ability to cope and their well-being. On the other hand, early intervention and student care should be taken into account even more in teacher training. It is extremely important to ensure that the skills of those working in schools are maintained and that sufficient resources are available to enable teachers to cope. If the teachers fail, the students cannot receive the support they need. School counselors, for example, also play a very important role in support of schooling and in the adequacy of teacher resources. The work of qualified instructors is significant in the school’s everyday life. Mr President! It is widely known that there has been an explosion in the need for mental health services for children and young people. Clear models are needed to make multi-professional cooperation between different professionals work better. The key to early intervention and recognition of problems is to better address the needs of children and young people with existing roles and structures. The entire multiprofessional chain even before primary school, starting from the maternity clinic and early childhood education and continuing through secondary school, must be made to work together better. Only by improving cooperation, interaction and existing processes can the benefits of multi-professional work really be made available. The Government Programme has outlined both the functioning of special education legislation and its inclusion and the adequacy of targeted resources, simultaneous education, special education and student guidance, the model of three-step support for early childhood education, low-threshold support services, student and student care services, and student guidance and also a hobby month. All of these measures will help to ensure that students are safe and secure in their daily lives, as well as measures related to their ability to cope and to their well-being. After all, we already have widely used highly qualified professionals in international comparisons and the best school in the world, measured by many indicators. Building a better well-being of children and young people in schools must be possible from these points of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u30	Mr President! This citizens' initiative is an expression of the concern that Finns have about school bullying, which continues and continues and is constantly getting new manifestations. Not even in leisure time is safe from bullying, but it continues on social media channels. It may even happen that the bullied student will ultimately have to apologize to his bullies when the matter is being worked out in accordance with the Nice School programme. This, if anything, traumatizes and leaves a lifetime of scars. According to Finnish laws, every student has the right to a safe learning environment. It is clear that, in spite of this, not everyone has this right. This popular initiative presents tools to intervene, and therefore it seems strange that they are clearly not wanted to be tackled. It is feared that it would disrupt the current rules of procedure for educational institutions and create confusion as to who is responsible for what. Based on expert consultations, I have been given the impression that the school world in Finland is extremely hierarchical and the limits of responsibility are being applied very rigidly. Each actor has the responsibility to remain, which in the end often leads to no one taking overall responsibility for the situation. I have also heard that many teachers are already so stressed out that they are not able to interfere with bullying but close their eyes. This cannot be the case; this must be addressed. Mr President! I think we are focusing too much on the bullied student and the bully when we think about the relationship between cause and effect. When we focus our attention on the role of students, I think that the real responsibility is too much to pay attention to. From my own experience, I know that we have schools where bullying can be tackled in the right way. The way I see it, the principal's role is crucial. The principal is responsible for how to tackle bullying at school, and when the right tools are found, then everyone will be good and safe. The implementation of these good practices would be absolutely essential, and I hope that the principals of schools where bullying cannot be curbed will actively seek these practices from those schools that have been successful. When it comes to bullying at school, we cannot give up and say laconically that it has always been and always will be – after all, Finland is a civilised society. What is needed now is deeds, beautiful speeches and pity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u31	Mr President! I remember about 15 years ago when I was at an event that wondered if politics really could be pursued or promised happiness to a person or whether happiness is something that is only in the hands of every person. I believe that politics can create opportunities for happiness. Compared to many other countries, the happiness of Finnish children has enabled equal basic education. But we decision-makers cannot limit our power to the happiness of a child just to create a framework for education. We also have a duty to ensure the safety of the system. Bullying at school makes the system unsafe. It takes away the opportunity of happiness from children who are being bullied. Bullying destroys the prospect of happiness, not only from childhood, but very often it affects a person for the rest of his life. Thank you for this citizens' initiative and for bringing up bullying. The nausea experienced by children and adolescents has increased. The symptoms are seen as disorderly behaviour and bullying in very young children. Even in remote education, bullies teased school bullies during distance education. Studies show that as many as one in ten children are subjected to repeated bullying in primary schools in Finland. In addition to bullies, there are students in schools who either bully themselves, watch bullying on the sidelines, or fear being tempted. Bullying affects the entire school community and thousands of families through schools and children. A bullied person can have symptoms in many ways. Eating disorders, difficulty sleeping, fears, pains and depression can all be symptoms of bullying. Often the precursor of bullying, exclusion from the group, is already evident in the day care center. Before children take on clear roles in bullying and bullying, adults must guide children to accept differences and involve everyone. Home has a parenting responsibility in this area too. Care must also be taken to ensure that there are sufficient staff in early childhood education and education to ensure that every child is taken into account. In addition to the victim, there is also a need for help from a bully who often has problems within the family. With social media, bullying has also varied and changed its shape. Bullying, embarrassing and mocking in WhatsApp or Instagram is just as much bullying as pushing, calling, assaulting, or excluding a group of friends. However, it is more difficult to detect, as it is hidden from the eyes of adults. However, it is more comprehensive bullying than ever before. Bullies invade all over the place. The one who is tempted through social media must not be left alone even at home in his own room. Many parents wonder how in this time to create a place of refuge for their child. In fact, parents need support and guidance from children, which is safe on the Internet and which brings problems. The power of the example is enormous. If an adult has a habit of speaking ill of others or of snooping and barking at others, the child learns to express himself in the same way. Adult activity or inability to act can maintain or contribute to bullying. Silently following the side also gives permission for bullying. School bullying will only stop when each of us adults wants it to stop. Finland must have a zero tolerance for bullying. Children need us adults to eradicate school bullying from their everyday lives. It's the responsibility of the adults. The Government is committed to implementing an operational programme this period to address bullying. In addition, the staff of educational institutions, pupils and students must be provided with training related to the identification and intervention of bullying. The identification and prevention of discriminatory bullying will also be considered. The Guide to Anti- Bullying Work, which the Finnish National Board of Education is currently working on, is due to be published during this autumn. In addition, important anti-bullying work models and existing tools should be put more widely to use all Finnish schools. Low-threshold support services, student and student care services and student guidance must be strengthened. The government has started work for children and young people. Mr President! Finally, bullying is not limited to the world of children and young people. Bullying will also continue in working life. By example, Parliament could show how strongly people who disagree can still treat one another with respect. Thank you for today's good speeches. We seem to share a common goal and direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u32	Mr President! New approaches are needed in comprehensive school, bullying needs to be addressed. This is obvious when you read, for example, news of assaults in schools, now last time in Vantaa. According to the Basic Education Act, the learner is entitled to a safe study environment. This means that society has a duty to ensure that this right is done. However, 34 per cent of students in the 4th and 5th grade have reported being bullied during the academic year, 7 per cent reported being bullied weekly, and up to 24 per cent of school bullies in the 8th and 9th grade have experienced physical violence. Intelligent devices have brought with them a completely new form of bullying, which is growing alarmingly. Mr President! We can't close our eyes. We are now in a situation where our decision-makers should also look closely in the mirror. The speeches here today have been good and touching. We are in agreement on the zero tolerance of bullying, but we now need more impressive actions, and in this Chamber we can be effective. We know that bullying leaves a deep mark. Being bullied will weaken self - esteem and cause problems even after decades. Mental health problems are on the increase, exclusion is a problem that causes an annual cost of EUR 1.5 billion or even more than EUR 2 billion in other estimates. By tackling bullying, we would be able to prevent a large part of these problems. It is true that no money in itself replaces human suffering, but with financial contributions we can ease and solve problems. This is about our future. The citizens' initiative proposes that primary schools should include a person with therapeutic skills who would be responsible for improving the atmosphere in the school community and addressing bullying cases as early as possible. Such an arrangement has, for example, been the subject of an experiment in the ceramic elementary school, the results of which will be presented in the initiative. The results have been positive. It is true that the importance of home must never be underestimated either. Unfortunately, support networks have become thinr in families and problems have accumulated. Therefore, an adult with therapeutic capacity and approach at school could also have a role model, the responsible adult. The adoption of the initiative will benefit not only the pupils but also the teaching staff. In recent years, group sizes have increased and special education has been reduced. This has increased the workload of teachers disproportionately. At the same time, the teacher is expected to be a social worker, a youth worker and a law enforcement officer, and so on that page it should be possible to focus on the actual task of teaching. Is it any wonder that our investments in statistics like Pisa are falling? There are already far too many marginalised young people in our society. This number is threateningly approaching 100,000 young people, and there are far more at risk. This cannot continue. It is also good to take into account the comments of the Psychological Association and the opposition to the fact that responsibility for organising and producing education services, psychologists and curators from schools and educational institutions maintained by municipalities would be transferred to social services. Mr President! The citizens' initiative under discussion must be supported. Thank you very much to Mr Koponen and to the people behind the initiative and to all those who have signed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u33	Mr President! Mr Koponen is once again on a good note and I therefore strongly support the citizens' initiative he initiated and the objection to the report. There have also been many wonderful, emotional speeches here today. There's a lot of talk, but what about those things? We need action right now, and this citizens' initiative, initiated by Mr Koponen, would have been a good start for action to stop bullying at school. I am disappointed by the committee's report on this matter. If these people in this room can't get this thing right, then who can? I understand we're here on Arkadian Hill to regulate the laws. Mr President! Preventive work to prevent the exclusion and bullying of young people is invaluable. Problems need to be addressed as early as possible, and there is no solution to draining aid to higher school and educational levels. The damage caused by ill health has already grown to an excessive economic scale. The mental illness of children should not be part of everyday life. The Basic Education Act, the High School Act and the Act on Vocational Education guarantee the student the right to a safe study environment, but these points of law are not currently being fulfilled, as the recent example of Vantaa has shown again. School bullying should not be accepted in any form, and therefore every primary school should be provided with a preventive expert, as the signatories to this citizens' initiative put forward. In line with Mr Koponen's proposal, wider piloting of the Kerava model would be important in order to provide research on new operating models. I think this would be a good start when we solve the problem of bullying. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u34	Mr President! The idea and content of the citizens' initiative are important. There is far too little debate on these issues, and I am therefore pleased that this debate is taking place in this Chamber today — thanks to all the representatives. Our society has not intervened with the energy needed for school bullying or for school violence, or indeed they are being talked about, but these root causes are not being addressed, and these root causes lie in the school world. In many places, teachers in particular are already at an extreme limit. Group sizes have grown, there are no special classes and there are not enough school assistants. In many schools, everyday life is survival and the management of classes is challenging. For example, we do not have an upper limit in the law on how many students can be in one class. This should be taken into account, but there is also a strong lack of funding behind it. If we want to spend a little more resources on the well-being of students and the school world, it would bear fruit in the long term and save our society money in the form of reducing the drop-outs and the marginalized, and this would also reduce nausea. Teachers do not have the proper means to intervene in class harassment. Students today know their rights quite well, and some teachers are afraid of legal action, which, unfortunately, will paralyse teachers from addressing certain questionable situations. Now that the government of the country allocates considerable additional funding to municipalities by means of an amending budget, local authorities could make value choices and allocate resources to prevention as well. For example, it is now possible to hire youth workers or psychiatric nurses in schools. Mr President! There are ways, only will is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u35	Mr President! Today is an important topic in the debate: the citizens’ initiative ‘to tackle problems leading to the exclusion of children in primary schools’. This is a good day to go through this subject, because again there have been flagrant cases of bullying and unfortunately the media have read about them. An 11-year-old student of a school in Vantaa has been bullied and abused in such a way that health is seriously compromised, and this is, of course, totally unacceptable. The case is outrageous, and especially if it has been going on for a long time, of course, one wonders why such activities have not been noticed or interfered with by school teachers and other overseers. In any case, in these situations, of course, when these development discussions and others are being held, it has often been the case that the bully has to change schools, but it would also be good to have that option on the table, that the bullies change schools and are scattered if possible. Of course, bullying and prevention should be talked about every day and taken into account, and this is probably the way most schools and early childhood education are actively done. Unfortunately, however, it always happens. This initiative introduces a law that obliges each primary school in our country to have an adult with a therapeutic capacity. This person would be able to complete and improve child protection work and, with his own life - training guidance, to prevent, among other things, bullying at school and other problems that hinder safe schooling. Mr Koponen's citizens' initiative is very good in spirit, but when I listened to his speech here, he now had the idea that this therapist would be able to solve this and many other problems in every elementary school — which would require about 2,500. I personally do not believe in it, and there was also a great deal of difference in the committee of experts. In fact, there was little support for having these therapists there, and that is, of course, because we already have legislation that obliges the teacher to ensure that the school functions are organised in the interests of the well-being of the students and that the students receive the individual and community support they need. In student care, in addition to teachers, nurses, curators, psychologists and doctors, whose work includes promoting the well-being of students in everyday life, are already supported. In addition, the teacher is now able to hire non-legislative professionals, such as a therapist or youth worker, a psychiatric nurse, if necessary. Should there still be a therapeutic title in the law, or is it enough to have the skills of people in school who are with the students? If not, then at least I am in favour of this kind of training and further education being invested in even more. Perhaps the most important thing is that there are enough of these statutory student care professionals and that the students can meet them if necessary. Of course, this means sufficient staffing and resources. Mr President! There are also entries in our government programme on this subject. According to it, Finland has zero tolerance for bullying and racism. According to the Government Programme, a programme of measures will be drawn up to address bullying and reduce loneliness. The programme also provides training for educational institutions, staff and students in identifying and addressing bullying. The identification and prevention of discriminatory bullying will also be considered. The Government has also provided resources to improve the quality and equality of basic education and early childhood education. Within the framework of the Oikeus-opetus development programme, which improves the quality and equality of early childhood education and basic education, EUR 180 million will be invested over three years in basic education and EUR 125 million in early childhood education. In addition, according to the Government Programme, student and student care services will be strengthened at all levels of education and binding dimensions will be laid down for study care services, for which EUR 29 million will be reserved. There are many other measures that affect the well-being of children. The root causes of bullying are diverse. There are a lot of domestic problems in the background, poverty, unemployment, participation, substance abuse, violence. In society, too, there must be a broad focus on improving these — and, of course, on behaviour and education and the creation of a good example. It is the responsibility of families, but it is also the responsibility of schools and early childhood education. Mr President! All in all, this time does not tend to reduce bullying in general, but vice versa. All you have to do is follow the speech and writing of adult people in social media or follow the speech of influential politicians and leaders who target other people, so I don't wonder that our society is turning into a teary, disdainful, disdainful society. When we look around all over the world, one might ask, ‘ Does it give encouragement to friendship, cooperation, and understanding? ’ There is room for improvement. This is where we can all do our part. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u36	Mr President! Thank you to those who have taken the initiative for raising a very important issue. I would also like to thank the committee for your thorough examination of this initiative. As I have told you before in this Chamber, this subject is also a personal one for me, since I was also bullied at school, like many of us here. Time has changed a lot since my own school days, perhaps the most so that more is said about bullying now. However, time has also brought new dimensions to bullying and has complicated the follow-up and the problem itself. In the past, the scope of bullying was a snowball curve in the school yard or it was the sound of vicious gossip, stories or barks. The public of modern social media may be the whole world, and school bullying has become a phenomenon whose tentacles extend far beyond school. You can't even get rid of bullying outside of school, it carries you home. Bullying is often also done by less well-known social media for adults, even in those whose existence we may not even know. In a well-being survey carried out by MLL, which was not yet published, 17 per cent of respondents reported that they had experienced bullying, 40 per cent of them reported that school adults do not know about their experiences. A total of over 14,000 children and adolescents replied to the questionnaire. This means that 2380 of these youths were bullied and 952 of them have not told any adult about bullying. Bullying is like a huge force that needs to lose its counterpower. In order to eliminate bullying and counter-teacher in schools, a tight and multidisciplinary safety net is needed to protect the bullied. The committee’s report states: ‘The student support described in the national initiative is part of the teacher’s,the nurse’s,the doctor’s,the curator’s and the psychologist’s work at the school. In addition, the organiser of education has the possibility to hire non-legislative professionals, such as a youth worker or a psychiatric nurse, if necessary, as long as this is the case in this Chamber. It is also stated that ‘it is important to ensure that the services are available to pupils at the early stage,as far as possible,directlyinschools orschools where the age Mr President! Something is wrong, however, because this safety net is still leaking. One of the reasons may be the tight economic situation of municipalities. In many municipalities, the services of schools are also eliminated in financial discipline. Teachers may be short washes, and there are many replacements. There are not enough assistants, and the everyday life is really busy and hectic. The bullying problem is very complex, and every bullying case requires the time and concentration of an adult. Is the time just what schools don't have anymore? At this point, it can be said that just one discussion with a student or home is not enough, but continuous monitoring is also needed — how has the matter progressed and has the problem improved? That'll take time, too. New regulations and regulations are not comforting to those who are tempted and close to them if the regulations already in force are not feasible due to lack of time or lack of money. We therefore need adequate staff measurements and adequate funding for the municipalities, which will ensure that the bully does not slip through the hole in the safety net. Every network failure is too much.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u37	Mr President! Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers and to this broad debate in the Chamber for raising this important issue of young people's exclusion. I remember when we discussed this in depth at the meeting of the Committee on Education in the spring, in fact with the blissful ignorance of the present country where we live. We are living in critical moments with regard to the exclusion of young people and in particular the prevention of exclusion in the middle of the corona. On the mental health side, young people’s contact with helpline phones has increased. There are concerns about the first job: 55,000 fewer young people got a summer job this summer than they did last summer. As far as schooling is concerned, many people have expressed their concerns as the entrance exams changed and the situation changed from what they had thought — even though the number of places to start increased. A lot of hobbies have been taking a break. For example, almost all courses in adult education centres have been on break or at a distance during this period. Various projects have created good tools for intervention throughout Finland. Of these, I myself would name a programme of changes in child and family services, in which I myself have been allowed to work and thus have seen, for example, the new ways in which student care is operated and absenteeism models and similar working models. The Youth Guarantee Management Team established the Ohjaamo model in Finland. When the youth guarantee was started to be considered, it was concluded that there must be a person, someone who takes overall responsibility for a young person on the one-stop shop principle, and it was concluded that Ohjaamo is this place. At last, the draft budget contains sufficient resources for the Drivers and their consolidation into the Finnish network, including mental health services. I feel very good about this. The overall picture is clear. The National Youth Council has been doing youth barometers for years. It has been understood that both the school, the social and health sectors and, for example, hobbies are an important part of the environment for young people. However, this problem is basically still unresolved and I think that when we have this debate, we will certainly not end up with one solution, and that is why, in particular, these different policies, which have been highlighted today, are constructive and rich. The aim of the citizens' initiative was to enhance the well-being of pupils in basic education, so that at each primary school the pupil would be supported by an adult with a therapeutic capacity. I fully agree that resources should be given to the debate on exclusion. I fully agree that therapeutic capacity should be found in the school environment, but I agree with the position of the Committee on Education and Rural Development as a member of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy that it is not up to the title of man to know how much skills he has. Like the committee, I see that we already have these necessary experts in the school world, but their numbers have been resourced to a very low level. Perhaps the most flagrant example of this could be the appointment of school psychologists and school curators, one professional for about 700, 800 or 900 students or students. It is an entirely inadequate resource. Even today, when we have talked a lot about bullying, it is obvious that any professional or professional skill of any kind is not enough in these numbers. It is clear that resources need to be increased. This government has already increased the resources for student care, but this is certainly one of the long-term objectives on which we must continue to work. The consultation of the Education Committee was one of the most interesting in my parliamentary term. One of the sources of income clearly highlighted in the consultation was the search for funding for social welfare centres, which was in progress at the time. Although the funding search went, I feel that the debate is still topical — that we are building a new kind of social welfare model in Finland and thus bringing services to one of the hatches, as we have called it. And I understand that there is a joint support from the whole Parliament, at least over the years there have been no administrative silos in the lives of children and young people, so they should not be built into the social system either. It must not be the case that the civil society players in the province prepare the war on their own and then plan to be included later or to be built into that entity only through cooperation. As I said at the outset, the well-being of children and young people is built on the whole, and all professionals in this field must also work together. The aim of the wars is to strengthen the wide range of services through which people can obtain the assistance they need through a single contact. We have good models for this. For example, in the programme to change child and family services, we have built these multidisciplinary groups, and we know how professionals can work together. The focus should be shifted to preventive work. We should promote multidisciplinary student care groups, develop patterns of intervention and help children suffering from neuropsychological disorders, for example, on a learning path. One example of this is my neighbor Heinola, where all the professionals working with children and young people have been trained as professionals in these nepsy matters, or are being trained. It is at its best effective work with children and preventive work. There are many aspects to this, but here, Mr President, a few of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u38	Mr President! There's a bunch of magazines from the Moving Police Tradition Association on that corner. It immediately occurred to me that now that 20 years of police work has been done and then preventative work with a very big pitch, guess, ladies and gentlemen, how many times have I heard that bullying needs to be tackled?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u43	Mr President! Thank you to the initiators, to Mr Koponen and to the teacher, to the therapist Katja Kykkänen and to some 52,600 other people who have brought this here as a matter of great importance to us and, so to speak, forced Parliament to discuss this and seek solutions to it. Bullying, as has been heard here, often leads to exclusion and mental health problems and also to problems of adulthood, and they are very diverse, ultimately, as has been said here, even lead to the fact that as an adult, life can be difficult and lead to many problems, and, for example, if you think that your ability to work can suffer, it is very, very long-term. It has been said here that one of the reasons why this may not have been accepted has been that it is too restrictive and that this is missing in this particular title. I did not read this in that way, but I read that this is a procedure for giving a person who knows how at every school, and this would not be so title-centred. I guess every one of us is hoping that if anyone offers therapy services, they're actually trained to do it. I could start offering them, but I'm not trained to do it, so I can listen, but maybe I'm not the best person to offer therapy services if I don't have the skills. I understand that's what we're looking for. It would be good if every school had one such familiar, safe person to turn to. There was some talk here that these must be addressed at home, but not everyone has parents at home who are missing. Then you have to be a safe adult and a reliable adult, the person you know every day at the school, who you dare to go to tell, even if you feel distressed at home, and this is the kind of thing that comes up. This would also solve the problem of young people telling them other problems and then getting help for them. As has been heard here and the experts have told us, these ultimately cause self-destructiveness and suicides, and I must now say that, fortunately, progress has been made. There was a speech here that there was no intervention in teacher training today, or at some point, but if I think that when I was in primary school myself in the 70s to 80s, there was no intervention at all, these were not even discussed. I remember one time a boy in class threw scissors in front of me, got them in my leg, and didn’t even call my mother at home that I had scissors standing up at school. That, at least, some progress has been made in that regard. I have a scar of it as a memory, but luckily, it didn't hurt any more than that. Then here, for example, Mr Asell said that when you do not solve the whole problem here. Well, I'm sure it won't solve the whole problem, but it would be an opportunity, after all, to try to get expert and skilled staff there to solve these problems, because it is not enough to increase teachers. It's their job to teach those subjects. They have received their main education in that matter, and then are the other people who solve these problems. As the committee called for and stated on page 5, the Committee considers it important that the municipalities can try out different models, such as this Kerava model and other models — but it is precisely this lack of money. At the moment, as has been said here, municipalities have a disastrous financial situation, and many municipalities would probably do this, like my home town Hyvinkää, but we are fighting with the fact that we already have the money in the finals and we are wondering what we are doing. That is why we have often turned to the government to make money for this situation in the municipalities. If this were a statutory obligation, we would have the hope that we would also have funding in the municipalities for this. Many people have hoped that this criminal policy would be one solution and that this criminal law should be sharper. Well, there are some points there, and I am not opposed to this being made sharper, but when this initiative also concerns primary school and we currently have a minimum of 15 years of criminality, then we should have a broader debate on whether we are prepared to lower the minimum sentence, because those offences and their additions do not solve the problem for people under the age of 15, and it is, of course, now that we need to intervene and we need to tackle these by means of child protection. The Faculty of Law very little goes through such psychological matters, but I remember it always really when law sociology studies went through such that social punishment is, in fact, the severe punishment for man, and I have often wondered about it. It means such isolation, public shame. Each one of us might think that if you get bullied by a smaller or larger group in school, it is also a public shame, everyone laughs and points with a finger and pokes. If you think it was considered in connection with the criminal process, and if it is one of the hardest punishments for an adult, what is it for a small child whose backpack is almost bigger than that child himself? I warmly support this citizens' initiative, which is such a type of measure, that this issue should be taken forward and that the government should take urgent action. Many people have been calling out for these measures, and there is now one solution for us to have some of those measures. When we are always in trouble, as Mr S.H.I.E.L.D. said, then we would have a chance to do something. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u44	Mr President! Today, we are dealing with a citizens’ initiative entitled ‘Assessment of problems leading to exclusion of children in primary schools’. That's a pretty profound thing that's probably spoken of before in this Parliament, and now we're talking about it again. What I first think of is the words “Motorists for School Bullies”. A few times I have been involved in such anti-bullying events that have gone on motorcycles. First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that this kind of Christian motorcycle club has taken off for this job in the Tampere region. Their members have started this, and it has had a huge impact in many schools across the country. This is quite stopping — why do motorists go to such a job? What has led to this can go back to your own youth. When I have been to primary school — at least I feel that way — there have been different disciplines, minor penalties that must no longer be in use. Mr President! Are you still allowed to put a child in a corner at school? I don't know for sure, but it's become very limited. In my opinion, this problem has been partly caused by the fact that there may not even be such small penalties at school anymore. With warmth, I remember Erkki, who raised me from my hair at primary school, I remember Mane, who hit me with a stick on the map, I remember Kirst, who made me stand in the corner — there is no trauma left to me. Maybe that little shame was such an educational experience for me. Well, later on, I've been a teacher myself. I've been a special teacher in second grade and I've been in tenth grade in middle school, and from there I have different experiences. One thing that I would like to highlight at the point of the word ‘displacement’ is one which has experienced a problem on an individual basis as a teacher. This is now just one small, narrow example, but if a young person is becoming marginalised and has to deal with youth psychology, health care and social services, then my personal experience there is such a problem — which I see as a problem — that the parents of the children are not told everything that has come up there. In the spirit of endangering the relationship, we are not going to tell the parents of a child under the age of 18 what I think should be told quite openly. In my youth these would have been told — at least from my own experience. When I was put in a corner, or when I was lifted up or hit on the nails, I didn’t bother to talk about them at home when I knew there was another hair pulled there. This world has changed a lot. A lot of advertised digitalisation or social media and other such things have certainly brought us their own thrills in the growth and development of children. The legos have been outnumbered. Preschool children may tap a phone or a pahd or something else where they play games, and all of this affects their development. It may be that there are some games that are not meant for people your age. One of the things I am deeply annoyed about as a teacher is — is it about ten years? — when all pupils were placed in the same class, EHA groups and ESY groups were stopped, and this has brought difficulties to teachers. There are nepsy children in the same group who may not have been identified and the teacher may not have experience of identifying them. The citizens' initiative initiated by Mr Koponen is a good opening for debate. I myself may be a little different from what the Sea said, that it is not worth sticking to the name of the therapist. But perhaps every school should have someone like this bullying officer, to whom children and young people would dare to open up and at least know clearly that that is the person I have to go to tell. Mr Suomela raised racism and homophobia in this debate. It's true.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u45	President! There has been a great deal of discussion here about how low-threshold services must be found at school and their adequacy must be guaranteed. Then a lot has been said about why we need others, that teachers are not able to handle all these things — but the teacher does not yet have a broad knowledge of how to teach emotional skills, and in this pilot in Kerava we also noticed how much the teachers themselves need help and how necessary it was. Then it is perhaps very surprising that in the debate the members of the government party are telling us that resources are needed. Well, it's a matter of prioritization. The money for something is gone, so then just prioritize. Congressman Honkasalo was upset when I spoke about the guards at Vantaa schools. I would like to read a few passages for him in today’s press, namely Yle: ‘It has been added to the School of Kyttöpuisto for the week to be guarded because of an exceptional case of violence reported in the public sector’,and today’s Iltalehti:‘TinaEkholm,the The mission of a guard in schools is But the old saying‘someone won’t get angry,so there shouldn’t be a place But now it is time for the government to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u46	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the authors of this citizens' initiative for raising a very serious social phenomenon in the debate, namely the exclusion of children and young people and their prevention and, in particular, the ability of education to influence it. The committee has also dealt with this very well, and when I have partly been able to follow this debate today, which has largely taken place in this Chamber, it also tells us that the representatives here have taken this initiative very seriously and recognise a major problem in Finnish society that we have to find solutions to in one way or another. I have reserved this floor at an earlier stage, as I am, of course, concerned with this issue from two angles. First of all, when I am, of course, both a City Councillor in Vantaa and a Member of Parliament elected from Vantaa, it is quite clear that this situation in Kytöpuisto school in Havukoski, Vantaa, has raised not only national publicity, but also that we in Vantaa are now having a debate on the broad front, not only the city's authority and the school side, but also the citizens are experiencing this very strongly. But, yes, in this context, I must say that this is not a particular vantage phenomenon, but, as we have all said here today, it is a phenomenon of Finnish society as a whole and, more generally, a global phenomenon. Such bullying, beating the weaker, printing the weaker is an unfortunate fact in societies, and in that respect this is a serious matter. The other corner of why I wanted to take this up is a little bit the same as that brought by a number of other representatives: that we each have personal experience ourselves, we know in our own hearts what we are talking about, when today we are talking about this particular bullying at school. The injuries that this bullying of the school leaves in the mental state of man are, in fact, life long — I am talking about myself. And yes, you really recognize the phenomenon that it means when you get printed, what it means when you get beat up. I have no idea what you're talking about. Mäenpää said how teachers punish or do not punish — but more of the child is hurt by the heavy printing and isolation of his own schoolmates. It's a phenomenon that does grow. Someone comes up with an eye to decide that ‘at the bottom of my name, I’m saving my whole life for work that tries to make a difference to those who are in a weaker position’. That is one way of responding to it then as a little boy, but it does touch so far that there will be a cry for help that in what way will this be helped. We've been talking about talking, talking at home. My parents did not know about my bullying at school at all, nor did my teacher necessarily know. It is something that we do not want to bring up once and for all, it is only digging inside itself, and it is now going to be a great, great, great thing that we are talking about this bullying at school in Finland today. We who are in this house in our youth did not speak of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u49	Mr President! There has been a rich and good debate here today on a topical and important issue, and I do not want to repeat the same themes, but I would like to thank Mr Pelko in particular for his speech, in which he stressed this zero tolerance and that we all have to take responsibility for this issue. What we adults do for children and young people, how we view one another, is really an important topic to discuss. The speeches underlining that each child should be able to experience an important experience of success were also noteworthy in this context. In the prevention of bullying, these are also key issues. I am raising just one new point, or at least less, in my speech — I have not been able to listen to the whole debate. In other words, we in the Committee on Audit are starting our own investigation into the prevention of the exclusion of children and young people, and in particular we are now seeking the effective means of dealing with these issues. Bullying is indeed a risk factor in the development of exclusion, so I am also looking forward to the answers to today's question from this work of the Audit Committee. When we have listened to experts on the subject in the Audit Committee on a preliminary basis, we have heard from a surprising number of experts the comment that the problem of helping is especially the shortcomings of doing things together, that is to say that each professional group and every government acts as a separate and silod body, and unfortunately many children and young people fall between these silos. Nobody interferes, or they think someone else is already working on it. In municipalities, early childhood education, education, social and health care, well-being and sports and cultural activities should be made to work together, and organisations should be involved on an equal footing, because there are also very important activities there. The idea of such comprehensive well-being as part of the activities of school communities is being launched in Kuopio, for example, and the preliminary results have been encouraging. I've been watching that work a little bit by the side, and I've been a little peer-reviewed or peer-consultative on that. The potential of culture and art, for example, to promote comprehensive well-being, to identify and deal with negative practices such as bullying, root causes, emotional and interactive skills, or to build a well-being school community, has not been sufficiently exploited so far, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u50	Mr President! In the speeches of several representatives, concern has been expressed that, when this region of social welfare comes, student care will run away to the social welfare districts beyond the reach of the students. However, there is now a text of the law on social welfare — Law No 21 on social security, that is to say the Act amending the Act on Student and Student Care, Article 9 — and it states that ‘services are to be organised in a school in an immediate vicinity’. In my opinion, this is a rather clear text — is it more clearly defined in the current legislation then? However, it should be said that this bill is not intended to remove psychologists or curators from schools. If there is still some work to be done in that text, it will probably be refined if this is seen as necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u51	Mr President! We are dealing here with tackling problems leading to the exclusion of children and young people in primary school. Much has been said about bullying, yet very little about exclusion itself. In this way, as a practical person, I immediately got into the practical problems and the main things that really exist in this phenomenon of exclusion and especially in the case of children and young people. The main problem is the lack of coordination: no one is responsible for the action. In practice, there is no impact assessment of decisions and measures. Then only there, far away, at some later stage, will be a lack of resources. These three things are at the top. Nor is there a responsible body responsible for measures relating to exclusion, and when no one is responsible, there will be no development either. There is no pressure in a certain way to move things forward, and therefore there will be no results. The Youth Guarantee wants to be a bit of a good example of this: two governments have tried to implement it, but the results are rather thin — in the previous period the result was one A-fouren-long paper. Then, if you look more closely at that exclusion, you will find, among other things, an increasing polarisation — that is, there are these super-skillers and then there are the marginalists, and this gap just keeps growing. New fallers are also those who unfortunately do not have today’s capabilities. There are problems of concentration, special linguistic difficulties and special social difficulties. Then there is also one group of such exclusions — I would like to point out — and they are drowning in the demands, i.e. it is a matter of stress. A grown man gets used to stress, but a young man doesn't, and this is a pretty big, big thing that we should take into account with him. Long-term stress is damaging to the brain of young people, and this should always be taken into account in the impact assessment, how, for example, education is planned, how changes are made to teaching, how it creates stress. Many secondary students are already experiencing a very strong stress about studying, and the more complex this society is — and that is what it means to be all the time — the more time it takes for the individual to develop to its full potential, but this time that he does not want to be today. Then what other fundamental problems are there in tackling exclusion? What is very important is that information is not passed between the various actors. For example, there may be a psychologist at school, there may be a curator, but they do not see each other’s records, and the same is true of many other levels when it comes to caring for people. The data are collected in huge quantities, but it is not made available, and it does not serve its purpose in that way. This is a major problem. There is also a huge amount of overlapping work to be done. In practice, if this kind of overlapping work could be done away with in these matters, we would not have a resource shortage, there would be enough psychologists and other professionals. At worst, this blackout means that young people fall into the cracks of this system. I am sure it is no one's will, but that is what will happen, and I think this is a crucial problem. Children are subject to huge inspections at school, although 75 percent of the children are doing very well. There's no need to check everyone all the time. It's a waste. If we are forced to carry out mere checks, we will do so, but the welfare of young people will not increase at all. We should go beyond massive inspections and be subject to an effective inspection. After all, this situation is putting young people into special care, and this means that the service will also be blocked there, because there is no timely, appropriate low-threshold assistance and intervention, and in particular no preventive action. One thing that I find quite significant and interesting is that there is no substance abuse treatment for children and young people. This is particularly highlighted in children. You think we don't really have kids with substance abuse problems? Is that what we think? Ten-year-old cloud circles are old news. That's what it is these days. Before you went into this sort of cloud circle in the middle of everything, they understood to run away, but today is no longer understood even by it, it is not understood that we are doing something wrong. Yes, there are children who have substance abuse problems. If improvements are raised here, common indicators must be obtained: absences, symptoms reported by young people themselves, bullying, comfort, ease of access to support. The current gauges are completely out of date. Electronic preliminary surveys and feedback for all — this is a fast method. There should be a meeting with the nurse, a targeted conversation and then only go to the doctor if necessary on the basis of a discussion or at the request of the guardian or at the request of the young person himself. Information must pass between different actors, that is the threshold question. This duplication of work should be eliminated — a significant saving here — and impact assessments taken into account. And someone in this country has to be in charge of preventing the exclusion of children and young people once and for all, that is extremely important. I see it as so important that I would put it under the Prime Minister's authority. I am very often asked where this exclusion begins. I have usually answered it in such a way that exclusion begins when dreams disappear. The President,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u52	Mr President! Indeed, I am not here to tell you about this for the first time, and I do not know how many of you really know what is in a ditch wet for a couple of hours and wait for the danger to pass, and yet that is a better day. I know that, and that is why I believe that everything that can be done should be done about this, and in fact one of the impulses that has made me even go into this house is exactly what Mr Heinonen said in almost the first speeches, that this has been discussed and talked about. I see the problem so that it does not depend on us in this Chamber not having enough sympathy to remedy this issue, but rather on how we want to remedy it. There seems to be a clear desire to correct it in some subtle way or finely, academically or otherwise. An extremely good example of this is that when a few years ago a group of local motorcycle clubs went to school to take a bully to school, it was outraged. The headlines were ripped out of it, "Fear Coliseums to fight this shit." However, it was not a criminal organization, a motorcycle gang that went there, but a normal motorcycle club, but they actually had the very way to influence the issue, those who are bullying there. Those bullies today... At that time, even in my youth, they ignored the fact that some middle-aged aunt-man would come and say to them "soooo." They'll brag when they get out of there. Well, whoever thinks what's the great way and where the boundaries go, is it really incorrect that the motorcycle crew should come and bring that boy to school and the bullies think that they might not dare to tease that boy — if we save that boy for the rest of his life with that style, why do we have to be outraged here? The most important thing is that we save that schoolboy's life. I think this is the biggest problem. We do not want to make certain adjustments, easily and with little money, because we try to be better people. Because of our superiority all the time, really in that school world, children will suffer for the rest of their lives. I was here, if it was, a year ago, talking in the toilet, and it didn't really work out. For a long time, I wondered whether the backgrounds I had to go through in that final game were no longer there, because I have actually been able to get rid of them early in adulthood and, for some incomprehensible reason, I have, on the contrary, gained the strength of it. I don't know if it was even the fact that these feelings started coming here just because you knew you were doing well. I really would like more of these examples to come and we could really intervene in these matters, that we could get those people out of there — or I would say children. There are enough people in my circle who are the same age as me and still suffer from it. I am in the happy position that I no longer suffer from it. However, it is my job to bring this matter to an end. It is really worth spending resources on this, but let's not just think about doing something great with some money. In my opinion, we need to have such systems that we get results and not that, while next Parliament is sitting here, we are once again talking about the same thing. That bullying is much more brutal and diverse for young people today than it was in my childhood. All I can do is hope that there will actually be support for every single project there is, and that there will be enough funding for it and that it will stop being outraged when someone actually makes decisions that will help a young person. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u53	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kopo for taking up an extremely important issue in his initiative. As a politician, I never cease to wonder that there seems to be such a thing here in Parliament that things that we are very contentious about go well into decision-making, but for such things that we are almost sweetly united, it is not enough to do — it is amazing. However, this initiative by Mr Koponen has finally addressed a point that needs to be changed. Representative In this debate, S.H.I.E.L.D. made a good point to me that this is not basically a question of resources alone; it is a question of defining the right operating models and obligations and responsibilities. It is not the way in which things in schools are determined to increase the number of people who are competent if there are no means at all to tackle bullying with sufficient force. I see that teachers and principals need to be set up in such a way that they can deal with bullying as soon as they see it. I believe that Mr Kiljunen was quite right during this debate that the problem is not alone in the City of Vantaa, and I would therefore like to see a comprehensive solution to such a wide-ranging problem. By this, I mean, President, that we should also pay attention to bullying on school trips, and their own problem is that even too often the issue of secrecy prevails over the interests of the child who is being bullied.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u54	Mr President! Like Mr Asell, I have drawn attention to Mr Räsänen's earlier speech here that the government's draft of social services should involve school psychologists and curators taking out of school. I felt that some other members of the opposition had said the same thing. The representative, Mr Asell, rightly quoted the government's social welfare proposal: the idea is not to take school psychology and the curator out of school, but to place them either in the educational institution or in the immediate vicinity of it. Of course, this question of where these curators and psychologists should be is important to me. Of course, in the course of the committee debate, this government proposal can be further clarified so that there is no doubt that it is most reasonable and important for curators and psychologists to be in the immediate vicinity of the school so that students can recognise that the services they provide are part of the school community. It must be ensured under all circumstances, because this is absolutely the case that if such adults are physically located far away, it is already an obstacle to many. This kind of unreachable space is formed, and it must be ensured that the students have immediate access to these people who are doing important work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u55	Mr President! Here, Mr Koponen has raised the issue of emotional education in the past, and yes, it is one of the most important issues. I don't want to say that... This point was made that we need both discretion and academicism and then these examples and that we need to take up the job. But what has surprised me, for example, with regard to this emotional education: I studied as a class teacher 10 to 15 years ago. That's when it wasn't there. And now that I have followed teacher training before coming here as a teacher, the proper emotional education is still lacking in the curriculum and the way in which graduating teachers are taught to give emotional education and to face different situations in that normal school life. So I have noticed close colleagues who are studying this matter and have brought different models to the school class, that how well they have done in reducing bullying and in the fact that students have learned to trust each other when they have also begun to deal with those feelings — and, above all, with the feelings of their other students — and have gone through such positive and painful emotional experiences constructively. In other words, it has been a great surprise that we do not have so much invested in this at the study stage, and I am sure that neither do the teachers in the profession: they too have been given this emotional education as new as it were. So I think that while we have different programs and ways to apply for this reduction in bullying and there is an order for them, so when we are living in this kind of transformation — constant changes in society — they have such a big impact on the everyday lives of families and these children that they may not even be able to handle them at home. How, then, could they be handled at school and that safe atmosphere be built even in that school? So perhaps this can be part of the need for this academic side too, in that the people who are actually working with our children and young people there are able to answer it in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u56	Your Honor! First of all, thank you for this good debate. Great speeches have been made here. Quite a few people tell of personal experiences and what they have seen, but I raise a few points. First of all, I wonder very deeply whether it is really the case that the rights of our children and young people and their realisation in that school world are actually not controlled by anyone. Adult working communities have access, there are occupational health and safety commissioners, there is health control, there are chief confidenceists, there is also police, but when you look at the way in which children’s basic education law or legislation on school health care or these are implemented, no one is monitoring it. This is quite shocking because, however, municipalities, their schools and principals have a responsibility to provide that safe learning environment for children and young people. There is also a great risk here that, now that municipalities have underbudgeted the services of children and young people in a very bad economic situation and chronically to date, it is thought that when birth rates fall, we can cut a little more from there, even if we should actually see this as an opportunity to retrain and transfer resources that may have been there in the maternity clinic, to support families and to those difficult situations and early years elsewhere. It is very good that we have had this kind of intelligent and meaningful debate here. Representative S.H.I.E.L.D. brought up this specificity, which is these problems. We already have responsibilities, we have statutory tasks, but what does this tell us is that, despite this, we have, for example, children's complaints to the Ombudsman on a massive increase? It can't be like this. Concreteness and real support and the allocation of resources that already exist, more and more to the beginning of families' initial journeys, and more of that quality and real need, nothing like this. Mr S. S.H.I.E.L.D. still has to say that it is true that all of these people here are humbling, and everyone agrees that children must be saved and children must be protected and this and that, but it has been worse all the time. I'm sure this is the kind of thing that unites us all, and now it's just that concrete. Less money for the EU, more for Finnish children.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u57	Mr President! I remember from the previous debate, as from today's debate, that many Members of Parliament have also experienced school bullying, and I am sure that in this Chamber too many people will know what they are talking about — if not directly, perhaps even through close contact with the rest of the representatives. It tells us how long the problem is, because now that I look at us in this Chamber, we have not exactly finished our school. So this school bullying has been throughout history, and all it seems is that the ways of action are still diversifying as the world changes. I remember Mr Laakso's own story from the last time, which was very touching then and still is. However, it may be difficult in some way to act on a common cause if it is said, as it were, from the canteen of speakers that the fine people here are talking about things in some way. What we are about to define each other as some kind of person, and actually, tackling school bullying is not about whether you're a motorcycle enthusiast or that middle-aged aunt. The most important thing is that adults are missing, whether they are middle-aged aunts or a member of a motorcycle club. The more adults are missing, the more adults do not allow bullying, the better this society becomes, and that is what we adults have to be responsible for. When we work, we have to assume that we have to act before that bullying starts. When we interfere with bullying, we are always too late. That is why — and there was already talk here about learning emotions and many other important things, no matter how they sound academic or whatever, too soft — when the work leaves the day-care centre where children are taught to accept one another, to work together, to process their own feelings, to understand the feelings of others, we are already ahead of the issue. It must also be borne in mind that children who receive physical punishments, subjugation or contempt at home are likely to be those who dismantle it in one way or another, either by hating themselves, hating another or hating society. That is why we need to see the families and help the families, because if we eradicate the bad feeling of families, we will also be able to eradicate bullying at school.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u58	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Audit, TrVM 3/2020 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u59	Mr President! In the absence of the chairman of the committee, I would like to present the committee's report as Vice-President. The majority of experts in this report have already been consulted in February, and this report has already been completed in May. The Annual Report of the National Audit Office is based on the results of the Agency's work and covers all types of audits and its expert activities. The report has identified several audits as four themes: firstly, state property should be managed as a whole; secondly, government finances should be managed in a better way than before; thirdly, public cleantech procurement can be tightened by a common management strategy and risk management; and fourthly, careful preparation will best contribute to the digitisation of administrative services. In its report, the Audit Committee has focused on how public procurement has managed to achieve policy objectives that require environmentally friendly solutions, which hinder the achievement of the objectives and what measures should be taken in the future to achieve them. In accordance with its mission, the Audit Office has taken as its basis the objectives set for the activities subject to the audit and the financial significance of the case. Policy objectives have been set for green procurement since the 21st century. In 2013, the Government has explicitly issued a resolution in principle on cleantech procurement. In this context, cleantech technology refers to products, services, processes and systems with positive environmental impacts. According to the principle decision, all public procurement plans must take into account the energy and environmental aspects and the emergence of reference destinations. It obliges State contracting entities, but it is a recommendation to other contracting entities. In Finland, a total of EUR 35 billion is spent on public procurement per year, i.e. around 15 per cent of GDP. Two thirds of the procurement is made by municipalities and joint municipal authorities, which are therefore not subject to the above-mentioned obligation of principle. According to the Audit Office, the state administration has only partially succeeded in implementing the decision in principle and the decision in principle has been very limited in steering the activities of the municipalities. According to Prime Minister Sipilä's Government Programme, 5% of public procurement, or EUR 1.75 billion, was to be allocated to innovative procurements, which are often cleantech procurements. The 5% target for innovative procurement was removed from the Sipilä Government Programme in the mid-term review due to the lack of an instrument set for monitoring. Cleantech, bioeconomy, circular economy or sustainability are difficult to statistically verify. According to the Audit Office, the objectives set for cleantech have not been met so far and there has been no significant development of export promotion references or pilot markets around innovative cleantech procurements. Municipalities also find it difficult to determine when cleantech procurement is involved. Innovativeness, low carbonism and responsibility are, in terms of concepts and content, overlapping and overlapping in both policy orientations and stated objectives. If we want to monitor implementation, we need a common definition and a set of indicators. The Audit Committee therefore stresses the need to pay particular attention in the future to the coherence and clarity of concepts and to the measurement of objectives when setting policy objectives that are environmentally friendly or other such as sustainable development. According to the committee, the policy decisions adopted by the Government during the various parliamentary periods and the vaguely expressed policy objectives that go on top of each other have been difficult to systematically guide the state administration towards environmentally friendly solutions. For municipalities, the steering effect has been limited. There is only a poor picture of where the objectives have been achieved in the absence of monitoring and monitoring information. The conclusion of the Audit Office is that different government bodies and municipalities should be committed to common objectives through a national procurement strategy and long-term concrete environmental objectives that are systematically monitored. The model could be taken from Sweden, where an environmental target system has already been in place since the 1990s. Sweden has also adopted a national procurement strategy in 2016, one of the objectives of which is to promote green procurement. In Finland, the Ministry of Finance appointed 2019 Influenced by the Public Procurement Action Programme, the so-called "Procurement Finland". The first objective of the programme is to create a single national procurement strategy in Finland, to which both the State and the municipalities commit themselves and which is due to be completed in autumn 2020. Now, from outside the report, the strategy has been published on 9 September 20, so it has now been completed. With regard to the report, the committee hastened this strategy by saying that it is important to develop coordination between the state and the municipal sector and cooperation between the various administrative sectors in order to achieve common and concrete longer-term environmental objectives. The development of new technologies also requires long-term development work, and companies need a clear message from the public sector that the public sector is committed to finding new solutions, for example in order to achieve the objective of carbon neutrality. Next, investing in procurement skills and developing risk management is important. The committee also agrees with the Audit Office that the own strategic competence of procurement organisations needs to be developed. The implementation of green procurement and the use of risk management tools require competence. Procurement risks are due to lack of procurement skills and insufficient or incorrect assessment of the benefits and costs of procurement. In addition, procurement is not seen as an important tool for the implementation of the organisation’s strategy. The resources available for this have been reduced, sustainability criteria, life cycle cost calculation or carbon footprint calculators have not been used or know how to use, and best practices do not spread. The education programme for procurement competence has only just started at the university of applied sciences level. The expert consultation focused on the work of the KEINO Expert Centre and expressed concern about the continuation of its activities. KEINO, a network-based competence centre for sustainable and innovative procurement, is a consortium with Motiva Oy, Suomen Kuntaliitto, VTT Technology Research Centre, Business Finland Innovation Finance Centre, Suomen ympäristökeskus, Hansel Oy and Sitra, which are responsible for the implementation and development of various areas. KEINO aims to promote sustainability objectives and innovative procurement in Finland and to help public purchasers. The aim is also to promote the identification and active use of public procurement as a management tool and to help contracting entities to share transparent information about their own experiences and learn from one another. In addition, KEINO provides information on monitoring indicators. The funding allocated to the KEINO Centre, totalling EUR 6 million, is due to expire in spring 21. The committee supports the continuation of funding for KEINO's work and welcomes it from a functional and economic point of view. In the expert consultation, municipalities expressed their views, proven practices and obstacles to the procurement process. A condition for successful procurement may be based on the fact that the contracting entity has an environmentally friendly mindset for all types of procurement. In accordance with the municipal strategy, only necessary is acquired and the life cycle of the material or product and the possibility of reuse is already taken into account at the procurement stage. From the point of view of risk management, it is important to know how to use different forms of procurement. In the larger municipalities in particular, the problem is the fragmentation of procurement, the decentralisation of procurement to different parts of organisations and the lack of internal cooperation. This will also create challenges for monitoring and evaluation of the objectives. Local government also faces the challenge of a lack of skills in procurement in general, and in particular in environmental matters, where there is fear of delays in competitive tendering due to environmental reasons. It is also difficult to change old practices. In addition, supply services are thinly resourced, although careful tendering could also lead to significant cost savings. The Audit Committee emphasises improving procurement skills, the importance of strategic management and the development of risk management at all levels of procurement. In the view of the committee, more strategic and policy-level management is needed than the reform of legislation, such as the procurement law. Instead, new forms of economic incentives for innovative and sustainable procurement should be seriously considered and their success monitored with uniform indicators. And finally. Procurement also involves taking risks and failings. It must be possible to change old operating models and introduce risk management measures. It must also be possible to monitor procurements and examine their results in the longer term from the perspective of overall sustainability, and not just see individual cost impacts in a municipality's field of activity. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u60	Mr President! We heard the message from Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, Vice-President of the Audit Committee, on the report of the Audit Committee, and although there are no comments to make, of course the report by the Audit Committee and the report by the Audit Committee raise issues that need to be taken into account. In particular, you are familiar with public procurement and, although the policy objective was taken as an environmentally friendly angle in the procurement process, the Inspectorate says that this objective has not been achieved. This is an important point in relation to the fact that we are spending EUR 35 billion every year on public procurement - EUR 35 billion. Of course, two thirds of this is the case of municipalities and joint municipal authorities, which were not directly the subject of the Government's decision in principle, but this is such a significant amount of money — when we think of the amount of power we also use with that large amount of money when we make these acquisitions — that we also exercise significant power. The report raised the issue of the fragmentation of procurement, and the committee pointed out that procurement is a strategic instrument of the organisation, but it may not be understood or know how to do so. Over the past few years, we have talked a great deal about procurement in this House too: when it is a competitive process for older people and disabled services, where humanity disappears, when it is a cleantech target, which has not actually been achieved, but when the regional impact has been reduced. In fact, it seems that in terms of procurement, only economic objectives may have been successful, but almost all the other objectives are not succeeding in some way. That is why it is important to consider how we could improve procurement skills in the future, how we could act when we make purchases in such a way that non-economic goals would also emerge in it, because 35 billion is a huge sum and we use a great deal of power in purchasing, and now it seems as if that power is disappearing and draining through our fingers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u61	Mr President! As the vice-chairman of the committee said here, this Annual Report 2019 of the National Audit Office was due to be discussed in committee and this plenary session in the spring, but this was delayed due to an exceptional situation. Today, in the referral debate, there is already the 2020 report, which will shortly be on the agenda of the Audit Committee. Mr President! The presentation of the vice-president of the committee was very thorough, so I will not go into detail, but I note that the National Audit Office is reviewing the functioning of good administration in the context of the state administration audits from different perspectives. These include performance audits, audits, legality checks and audits of fiscal policy, as well as expert activities of the Audit Office. Regarding the year 2018, the Audit Office made fewer comments on the shortcomings. The reasons for positive developments appear to be, firstly, the increased flexibility in the content of the budget, i.e. the extension of the budget justification, for example, so that the budget can be used more flexibly. Another explanation for the positive change is, for example, the improvement of centralised control and guidance of the Kieku system, i.e. the state's common system of financial and human resources management. The purpose of the State Economic Audit Office is to provide decision-makers with timely and relevant information to support the development of their operations. Based on the feedback received, the Inspectorate has managed to do this. Mr President! The present annual report states that ‘state property should be managed as a whole’. The State has roughly the same amount of property and debt. However, the treatment of central government debt and assets in decision-making differs significantly, as the debt is almost always treated as a single entity, but rather as individual ownership.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u62	Mr President! Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen gave an excellent presentation of the opinion of the Audit Committee on this Annual Report of the National Audit Office. He raised a number of points, but I drew attention to the fact that he strongly underlined that public services should be made more environmentally friendly in the future. - Yes, that's right. What he stressed as a means — or pointed out that the committee had assessed as a means — was the exploitation of digitalisation in this particular respect. It may be true that digitalisation in public services promotes environmental friendliness, but at its worst it does not promote human kindness — especially if we talk about age-friendlyness. We have an increasing number of questions about Kela, the tax office and many other public services, once public services have been put online. When statistics have been examined — and I am referring specifically to the statistical yearbook — for example, the electronic filling in of forms: 70% of people aged 60 to 75 have never made forms in electronic form, and when you go to people over 75, this figure is already rising to 90%. It must be remembered that 300,000 people over the age of 75, or nearly 80 percent, do not even have a computer. This, by using digitalisation as a means of promoting environmental friendliness, may displace a significant part of Finnish citizens outside the whole service structure, and they experience a great deal of powerlessness and confusion in this society. That is why I would not go ahead with idealising this digitalisation without at the same time identifying the risks that public services will be transferred to the network.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u63	Mr President! These public procurements, the 35 billion, are a very significant economic entity, and this report now highlights this particular competence in public procurement. This is a question of eternity. After all, for decades we have been struggling with the fact that the public sector does not know how to obtain in the interests of the public, as it should. It is, of course, a matter of fact that calls for tenders are being drawn up. How they can be done in such a way that they have the best economic outcome, the best outcome for customers, is still very much to do. Education must be increased, the qualifications of today’s buyers must be improved, and this is, of course, entirely possible. It is often pointed out here that procurement must emphasise environmental friendliness and, for example, take carbon footprint into account. If we are talking about construction projects, whether they are road construction or building projects, then those projects are, of course, the most environmentally friendly, which are not implemented at all, with a zero carbon footprint, and that is not what we want to do. One thing that should be emphasised more in these areas is to favour domesticism, domestic SMEs, domestic production in different ways. Again, it is a question of how to draw up those invitations to tender in such a way that the winners are close by. Then I am a little concerned that even in the previous government's programme there was the acquisition of these cleantech references through these public procurements, but it has failed to achieve the results that were needed at the time, and it therefore seems that we cannot guarantee by different procurement procedures that all the best bidders would be those who would receive such cleantech projects in order to carry out and thereby receive reference to the world. This equal treatment of companies is very important in this context when attempts are being made to achieve such significant public sector references. Well, then I would like to point out this ict, that is to say, with regard to the state administration, it is extremely important that we now finally have systems which would enable us to do expert work without any unnecessary mouse clicks. We have a huge number of systems that are uncustomer-friendly, which are bad for employees and take a lot of time from that core work. So the ict-procurement has to be
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u64	Mr President! Thank you for those excellent contributions. Everyone had a very good and important point, and I personally hope that you will also get to know the first public procurement strategy published in Finland this autumn, 9 September, within the impressive public procurement action programme I mentioned during the presentation. It is a good document, and the key points of this strategy are the points raised in the committee's report and also the points made here by Mr Salosen on strategic management and the promotion of procurement skills. They have now been taken into account there, and I hope that they will now take the lead, because we have a lot to do to make procurement more environmentally friendly in government procurement, but especially there at municipal level. For example, we hope that these education programmes for purchasing know-how will now be available in different parts of Finland at university of applied sciences levels, which are needed. And it is particularly important that the work of the KEINO competence centre now receives further funding. At the end of the day, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, To the screamer, I would like to say that I quite agree that digital neutrality is really a big deal in Finland. We have almost a million undigitals, and that must always be taken into account, so digitalisation also has its own risks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u65	Mr President! I would like to make a small contribution to this procurement competence. Mrs Ranne spoke well about it, and we in Hyvinkää, for example, have had a lot of this debate because public investment really often exceeds that budget, and at least we have openly admitted, on behalf of the industry leaders, the fact that when a public operator is asking for a bid, it is unfortunately the case that, on the other side, it seems to be thought that when there is a good payer, those offers are a little bigger. This is the kind of challenge we should get rid of. The second is that when, of course, according to the municipal law and other regulations, we need the council's budget decisions, then there will be some indication of what kind of purchase is involved. And this in itself is a bit of a shame that if I had a limited company, a limited company that is privately owned, then I will not tell you in advance: I will ask for an offer and put it to what I want, but I will not tell you how much money I have in use. In other words, in a certain way, even though the financing decision does not fully reflect what it contains, it does bring such an indication. Knowledge and control are very important, but there are now two problems in which the legislator, at least this one, finds it difficult for companies to see it in this way that when there is a public purchaser, there is money. But this could be such a place for reflection, would it be possible for municipalities and other public bodies to keep more, a little in the back pocket, the size of its investment out of the public domain? Here's one of those things for development. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u66	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 4/2020 by the Committee on Audit. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u67	Mr President! In this regard, the expert consultation of the Audit Committee took place in March and the report has already been completed in May. The Party Act contains binding provisions on the transparency of funding for parties and party associations. Transparency is expected to increase confidence in political action and thus improve voting turnout. In addition, the aim is to prevent corruption and undue involvement in the activities of parties. The Audit Office shall report annually to Parliament on its activities under the supervision of party funding. Political parties, communities mentioned in the grant decision and party related communities are subject to control by the Inspectorate under the party law. There's about 150 people to watch. Other party associations of around 6000 are not subject to control by the Inspectorate. Since the beginning of 2016, the Audit Office has also been the guardian of state aid as referred to in the party law. Eight parties represented in Parliament have been entitled to state aid in 2019. In addition, one party and one parliamentary group were represented in the Parliament during that period and did not receive state aid. The Audit Office supervises the support referred to in the Party Act, the reporting of expenditure and funding for the election campaign and party support. The notification obligation shall cover aid of a value of at least EUR 1500 and information on the providers of such aid. According to the law, all payments received in the form of money, goods, services or other means of payment are, in principle, included. Only the performances specifically mentioned in the law do not constitute aid. Support payments for 2019 were notified to the notification register of EUR 4 million and aid payments for 2018 retrospectively of EUR 0.9 million. According to the Audit Office, some of the additions to the declarations are the result of party financing audits carried out. The Audit Office carried out inspections on all 11 registered parties that were not represented in the Parliament. In addition, the agency inspected 20 district organisations of parliamentary parties operating in the constituencies of Central Finland, Savo-Karjala and Vaasa. A total of 31 inspections were carried out. According to the Agency, the up-to-date declarations of party funding after the additions are essentially correct and provide the relevant information on the aid received by the audited entities. As a general rule, the accounts of audited entities have also been properly managed in such a way that the supervision of the provisions of the party law can be carried out on the basis of the accounts. As in previous years, there are still shortcomings in the audit reports of auditors of supervised entities. In its report, the Audit Office draws attention to the lack of interpretation of the conditions for state aid and the lack of contractual procedures. In 2018, the Government granted state aid to eight parliamentary parties in accordance with Section 9 of the Party Act for a total of EUR 29 million. According to Article 9(1) of the Party Act, part of the party's subsidy may be allocated to support the activities of the other association. According to the grant terms of the State Aid Decision 2018, an agreement on the use of state aid could also be concluded with the Foundation or other community. The Audit Office and the Prime Minister's Office have had a different idea of which law, party law or state aid law will apply. According to the Agency, the State Aid Decision of 2018 has extended the limited use of state aid in party law by allowing the transfer of the grant to limited companies or foundations. The committee considers it important that this matter, which is subject to interpretation, should also be resolved by the parliamentary working party which is to be discussed below. The Audit Committee, for its part, has highlighted in its previous years the development needs for party funding and its monitoring. According to the committee, for example, candidates' contributions to all candidates of the parties, which, according to established practice, finance joint electoral work, must be regarded as a natural part of the funding of election work and should not be regarded as external support under the reporting obligation. In addition, the parliamentary duties levied on MPs should be treated in the same way as those levied on municipal trust actions. At the end of February, the Government has set up a parliamentary working group to examine the development needs of the electoral law, party law and electoral funding law and, if necessary, other legislation on political activities. In addition to the entries in the Government Programme, the working group should take into account the proposals in the Audit Committee's report 1/2018 on the role of candidate fees in election and party funding and the campaign ceiling. The committee will await the proposals of the working group for a solution and the necessary legislative changes and will return to the issue of the reports of the Audit Office on the control of election and party funding. Mr President! The committee's opinion is that Parliament has no objections to the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u68	Mr President! Parties are the cornerstones of democracy and platforms for the functioning of the democratic process. It is therefore important that the funding of the political activities of the parties and their candidates is as transparent as possible. Unfortunately, in the last election in 2019 this was not necessarily the case in all respects. In favour of the left-wing opposition of that time, the SAK federations and the workers' movement, which organised large strikes, indirectly channel money to certain political parties, in my view, in a somewhat questionable way. The so-called Free Kingdom, this term created by Marx, was a masino, seemingly non-attached, roof campaign that worked in practice for the benefit of a large number of left-wing parties. In part, Mr Hakaniemi's tax-free euros, both in terms of money and human resources, were thus directed to support the political left. Mr President! The financing of the election of such a particular political ideology by means of a massive roof campaign, from which certain parties actually benefited, is extremely problematic. The sponsors are not accountable to any authority for what the money has been collected for the campaign or how it has been spent and how much it has been spent. That is why I consider it important in developing electoral and party funding legislation to take account of such loopholes. I never want a situation in Finland like that in the United States, for example, where millions of capital, or so-called super-PACs, through their organisations are grouped behind different candidates. In this way, the result of the election will be determined by who actually has the most money available, rather than by whose ideas are best heard in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u69	Mr President! After all, this was a very hot and important subject for some periods, but as a result and as a result of the increase in regulation, it is now a clearly cooled issue, and today in this Chamber there are already quite different types of people who are used to this regulation and who are obliged to report, as well as parties, and so on. An increase in transparency is only a good thing. As we heard in that speech by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, the Committee on Audit has also said a number of things about this in its report. Indeed, in 2019 the Audit Office carried out inspections on 11 registered parties that were not represented in the Parliament but also on 20 parliamentary party districts. All in all, 31 inspections were carried out and it appears that this inspection activity is being dismantled. The fact that, during the inspection, the amounts of aid declared have increased has been highlighted. The increase in the number will certainly indicate that these subsidies will no longer be hidden, which may not have been known before, or for some reason they did not want to be notified. The notifying parties have also received aid or payments such as aid for which no up-to-date declarations have been made, but have then been corrected by the checks. For example, advertising fees are like this. New or revised notifications have then been made to partially correct the situation. However, it also emerged from the point of view of party funding that these wills that have been given are relevant. The audit found wills, but not stock donations or bookkeeping external items, but changed debts, which at least left me a little distracted. Perhaps the Audit Committee then heard what these debts have changed to support. All in all, we are really waiting for this report by the parliamentary working party, which will be completed next spring, as the committee also states, and for these proposals for a solution by the working party and the necessary legislative changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u71	Mr President! Representative Kiljunen, I say that the Finns of Finland do not have a threshold fee for this kind of thing to be a candidate for, which I am really, really happy about. The transparency of election funding and the candidate's elections and the legal certainty of the voters would be improved if we made that advance notice compulsory, because then the voter would see what the funding was made of, because it is so that you sing its songs, whose bread you eat. I myself at least have always collected most of the money myself, and I actually think it is good in the sense that I do not have to think about whether I owe something to someone on something, so to speak. But I would actually have asked Mr Mäkisalo-Roppos, the chairman of the committee, when you raised the question of a trust worker's fee, and you said in some way that, so to speak, a trust worker's fee for municipalities and parliamentary groups would be in the same position. I would have liked you to answer the question of what it is driven by it, because I did notice what has been said here in the corridors, that this group contribution paid by Members of Parliament by means of a tax authority has changed so that it is no longer directly deductible. And without taking a stand now as to whether it is all right for it to change in this way, from the point of view of the principle of legality, I consider it a little unusual that such a significant tax change should take place only through the guidance of the tax authorities. Is that what your statement was about, or what you meant? It's all right, if it's being extruded, and there'll be feedback from the public anyway. Let me just say quite briefly that the tax authorities have a great deal of power over matters that should be decided by Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u72	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u73	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! We live in a rapidly changing and uncertain world. It can be said that we are even living in exceptional times, and it is good at these times that we have stable and permanent institutions. That's the Bank of Finland. President! The Board of Governors is responsible for overseeing the administration and operation of the Bank of Finland. The Board of Governors shall report annually to Parliament on the performance of this task. If compared with the events of this year, 2019 was a relatively peaceful time for monetary policy and the Bank of Finland. The impact of the pandemic on the economy and the reactions of the Bank of Finland and the European Central Bank to the ongoing crisis will then be discussed in the report of the Banking Council for 2020. As has been established, this report has two parts. The first concerns the activities of the Bank of Finland and the second concerns the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority during the year. In addition, the report contains three reports on current themes prepared by experts from the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority. The first concerns the financial risk management of the Bank of Finland, the second about household debt and the third about the role of monetary policy and fiscal policy in a situation where interest rates are already close to zero — all very topical issues. Mr President! The Bank of Finland is not only a Finnish monetary authority but also part of the Eurosystem. The Governing Council is the supreme decision-making body of the Eurosystem. The main channel of influence of the ECB’s monetary policy is the level of interest that the Governing Council of the ECB regulates by deciding on the key interest rate, i.e. the interest rate that commercial banks receive on deposits with the central bank and, correspondingly, the financing they receive from the central bank. And as I'm sure many people know, the steering rates have been partly negative during the reporting year. At the end of last year, the ECB's deposit interest rate was minus 0.5%. As in previous years, the ECB has also used other unconventional monetary policy instruments during the reporting year. In addition to negative interest rates, these include in particular purchase programmes, which were re-launched in September 2019. In conclusion, the ECB’s monetary policy in 2019 was strongly supportive of growth when inflation was lower than its target and inflationary pressures were subdued. The objective of a light monetary policy is to ensure access to finance for businesses and households, thereby promoting consumption and investment, while at the same time bringing inflation rates closer to the target level. Despite monetary policy supporting growth, inflation remained below the target. The Bank of Finland is responsible for the implementation of monetary policy in Finland. In this capacity, it participates in the implementation of the Eurosystem’s monetary policy purchasing programmes through its own contribution, the capital key. At the same time, the implementation of monetary policy has greatly increased the balance sheet of the Bank of Finland. The most significant part of the Bank of Finland’s assets are debt securities purchased for monetary policy reasons and credit claims arising from the implementation of monetary policy from banks. In addition to monetary policy claims, the Bank of Finland has some EUR 11 billion of financial assets to carry out its central bank functions, of which the largest item is foreign reserves, which at the end of last year amounted to around EUR 6.7 billion — or rather the equivalent of US dollars, British pounds and Japanese yen. This foreign reserve is not protected, so exchange rate changes pose a risk to exchange rates, and for these risks the Bank of Finland's balance sheet has accumulated provisions covering these risks. The Board of Governors will contribute to the development of the risk profile of the Bank of Finland and to the monitoring and management of financial risks. The risk buffers were strengthened during the reporting year thanks to the training of reserves. According to the Bank of Finland’s assessment, the solvency of the Bank of Finland is sufficient to cover the risks arising from the performance of its tasks. More specifically, you can read about risk management in the report. The Bank of Finland's profit for 2019 was EUR 320 million. In March this year, the Bank of Finland's Board of Governors confirmed the Bank's results and decided that 132 million of the profits will be used to raise the reserve fund and 188 million will be transferred to the State for use. The Bank’s objective is to distribute profits to the State without jeopardising its solvency. Mr President! Then to the Financial Supervisory Authority. Financial supervision operates administratively in connection with the Bank of Finland, but it is independent of it in its decision-making. The Financial Supervisory Authority supervises the activities of credit, insurance and pension institutions. The aim is to maintain the stability of financial markets. The Bank of Finland’s Banking Council is responsible for overseeing the overall relevance and efficiency of the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority. The Board of Directors of the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Director of the Financial Supervisory Authority, acting on a proposal from the Board, shall be appointed. The Board of Directors of the Financial Supervisory Authority has submitted a report to the Banking Council on the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority in 2019 and published the Financial Supervisory Authority's activity report. On the basis of these reports, discussions at the meetings of the Banking Council and other information received, the Banking Board estimates that the objective of the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority has been achieved by law. The Board of Governors considers the strategic objectives set by the Financial Supervisory Authority to be appropriate. The Board also considers that the Financial Supervisory Authority has responded appropriately to the restructuring of the banking sector, for example by changing its operations in the manner required by, for example, Nordea's move to Finland. Both the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Bank of Finland have long paid attention to the high level of household indebtedness and related risks for the financial system as a whole. This theme has been discussed by the Banking Council at several meetings, and the background report on this theme is therefore one of the thematic reports of this report and an annex to the Banking Council report. The vast majority of household debt consists of different types of housing loans. Interest rates on mortgages have fallen historically low and longer mortgage loans have entered the market. Currently, the average repayment period is 21 years. Debt weakens the resilience of households to crises. In the event of a deterioration in the ability of several indebted households to pay, a significant decrease in consumer demand may result. From the perspective of banks, both the household and the corporate sector may face major credit losses. Macroprudential policy, for example by imposing prudential requirements on banks, aims to compensate for systemic risk. Households' borrowing has been restrained by the maximum credit ratio used since 2016, which has limited the size of mortgage loans in relation to loan guarantees. The Financial Supervisory Authority has also issued a recommendation to banks on how to calculate the liquidity of the borrower. According to the recommendation, the applicant’s ability to pay a loan should be sufficient to manage the loan with a payment period of 25 years significantly higher than at the current rate of around 6 per cent, i.e. a stress test such as this, which has been publicly discussed. In October last year, a working group of the Ministry of Finance has also published a report with a number of suggestions on this theme. In addition to the risk of household indebtedness, the Board of Governors has often drawn attention — and now a very important issue — to the availability of basic banking services for citizens, and the Board of Governors will — you can be sure — continue to work on this. It is clear that, as digitalisation continues to grow, it must be possible to ensure equality of access to banking services for every citizen. The challenges to this whole have increased the number of corona pandemics. This is not the time for this reporting year, but I can tell you so much about this year that the Banking Board has paid particular attention to this at the Financial Supervisory Board meeting, and in the report on access to basic banking services this year, the Financial Supervisory Authority will pay particular attention to the fact that basic banking services must also be available during the interest rate pandemic. We have unfortunate examples of this all over Finland, and this whole will be thoroughly cleaned through this autumn. Everyone has the right to easily accessible basic banking services, and securing this issue has been very much on the agenda of the Banking Council. Mr President! As I said, the report of the Board of Directors only covers 2019 for the Financial Supervisory Authority, and the measures taken by the Financial Supervisory Authority in the light of the crisis caused by the pandemic will be dealt with in more detail in the next report of the Banking Board for this year. At this point I can say that financial supervision and its decisions have played an important role in ensuring the stability of the financial system during the crisis. This has involved both ensuring bank solvency before the crisis and securing financial intermediation during the crisis. For example, the decisions of the Financial Supervisory Authority in March increased bank lending capacity in Finland by up to 52 billion. President! The Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority have played a strong role in overcoming the crisis and building the bridge over a difficult period of time. The confidence in the Finnish banking system is good at the moment. That is the confidence we must hold onto. Especially in the midst of this crisis, the power of trust is invaluable when we pilot towards Finland better.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u74	Mr President! As we have heard, the report by the Banking Ombudsman highlights the indebtedness of households, and it is particularly noteworthy that when the data in the 2019 report are mirrored to this moment and during the corona crisis in Finland and in Finnish households, this concern raised by the Banking Council's report needs to be taken more closely into account. Despite these macro-prudential measures, which have been discussed above, household indebtedness has continued to grow, and already in 2016 we have received a warning, and also in 2019 the ESFB issued a recommendation to Finland to introduce new policy measures, as these risks were not seen to decrease during the period considered. The coming years will certainly be challenging times in terms of household indebtedness and, in particular, in terms of solvency. Mr President! The second point I would like to raise is the point raised by Mr Lindtman, President of the Banking Council, which is currently out there and which has been reflected in shocking figures over the spring: the queues of people in the banks' presence, in the midst of this corona pandemic, have been very, very long, even long blocks. And who's been in line? There have been elderly people in line, i.e. those who cannot use these digital services but need that basic banking service in order to be able to do vital things. This is a good thing that we have heard that you have taken on this too, and you have noticed that too. However, I would like to raise another point. At present, therefore, this security of basic banking services is not achieved in a completely equal way for all categories of customers. But as an example, I bring up the elderly and the elderly, who, as family carers, also seek to care for the affairs of this elderly person, even in banking matters. I have received feedback that when these online banking credentials are lost, all other functions become very difficult. For example, bank IDs are needed for Omakananta and Kela services, and the Tax Administration is logged in with bank IDs. Of course, the Suomi.fi logo, the mobile certificate attached to the SIM card or the electronic ID card can also be used to access these other services. Although there are many of these options, many people still inevitably rely on these bank accounts. For example, if you want to obtain a mobile certificate, you must continue to identify yourself with the operator’s service using bank IDs. On the other hand, if an elderly person does not have a valid passport or identity card, there are very few alternatives. For example, getting a passport and identity card for an elderly person with reduced mobility, who is being treated almost at home in bed, is not a simple process. Giving fingerprints and taking a photograph seems like a lot of fragile people from one hatch to the other to bounce. Thus, the bank has great power but also responsibility for granting banking credentials, but also for rejecting them, because it can lead to a considerable spiral and other vital functions, for example, in such a situation of informal care. Fortunately, a legislative amendment is being prepared for this and it is hoped that we will soon be able to bring it to the House and then actually deal with these current problems. However, this power and responsibility remain with the bank’s comprehensive services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u75	Mr President! When Mr Lindtman presented the report of this Parliament’s banking council, it began with the words ‘we have certain institutions that are permanent,the Bank of Finland’. Yes, the big building over there in Kruununha is permanent, but the Bank of Finland as an institution has not been permanent since we joined the euro and the central bank role moved elsewhere. The role of the Bank of Finland is different, and in that sense the content stability is different. We have lost that we do not have an independent monetary policy, but we have also achieved a great deal. Of course, what we have lost is that we can no longer decide independently on changes in our own money, devaluations, revaluations. But perhaps even more central is the fact that we are no longer able to create the money ourselves, such as the United States, for example, for almost half a century — a budget in deficit, a trade balance in deficit — and it has been able to finance it by printing notes, because the international economy has grown and the liquidity needs have grown, when dollars are used as an international reserve currency, as a means of paying for oil trades, and so on, it has been covered because credibility lies with the US economy. And we have also recently received information about Switzerland, among other things. The Swiss Central Bank has financed the purchase of shares on the international market and the purchase of public bonds on the international market only by printing notes, and of course this revitalising policy of the Central Bank has also been much based on the fact that money has been created. I do not take this as a criticism, because I see it so that joining the euro in Finland has made sense for so many other reasons, but the loss of an independent monetary policy has, of course, changed the role of the Bank of Finland. It has its role and its role, and it is good that the banking council is following it. I appreciate Mr Lindtman's speech and also Mr Salonen's statement that you raised the issue of basic banking services in Finland. Here I already gave some figures on digitalisation, but it is necessary to give these figures again now, when we are talking specifically about online banking services: when we talk about people between the ages of 60 and 75, one third do not use online banking services, and the proportion of those over 75 who do not use online banking services is already rising to almost 75%. As I gave the figures before, we have 300,000 people who do not even have a computer, adult people who do not even have a computer. This is a serious problem. And I thought it was very valuable how Mr Salonen here described this incredible sight outside the bank offices. More and more bank branches are being closed, and when there are few branches, it is the elderly who are waiting there early in the morning. In the context of the corona crisis, when it has been said that people should not be present as a group, there will be, and in particular, large numbers of people of the highest risk group. This is a disproportionate situation in which basic banking services have been put in such a bad position. And thank you, Mr Lindtman, for pointing out that it is the banking council that will now be paying serious, serious attention to this issue and that it will also require social responsibility from the banking sector in this respect. In this way we cannot replace the central part of Finnish people. The second point that Mr Salonen also raised was this strong identification, even for public services, to which you referred, through the customer relationships that we have with banks. When we have a whole bunch of people who don't have these customer relationships, then it's weird, really weird that public services are behind this kind of strong authentication. And that doesn't even help with these mobile applications, because we have almost 20% of people over 75 who don't even have a mobile phone. We must now believe that there are people in this society who must have the right to access basic services in the present place and they must be guaranteed when we talk about public services. It cannot be required that all of us have access to these capabilities and instruments that digitalisation requires. I hope that the banking council will also pay attention to this. And I am aware that the government has also taken this issue seriously and we are consciously pursuing it. I have put a written question on this and I have also received an answer to it, to which the Minister has responded in a very clear way from the point of view that the aim is that in the future this kind of customer visit is to concentrate on public services so that all people in their region can also receive public service in the presence of the public service. This is a very valuable matter for older people to hear that these service structures are being developed in this direction. And this strong identification is now being sought by the government to develop a public identification tool so that it is not linked to a private bank in a customer relationship. These are important reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u76	Mr President! I would like to thank the representatives for this debate and for raising these important points. This will certainly encourage us, among other things, to keep this access to basic banking services on the agenda with a recent member of the Banking Council, Mr Kiviranta. Mr Kiljunen rightly said that the role of the Bank of Finland changed substantially when we joined this Eurosystem. As I said in my speech, the supreme decision-making body in this system is the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, where the Bank of Finland is, of course, represented by President Rehn. Of course, the Bank of Finland is still the institution that carries out these operations for its part, and when Kiljunen referred to both the Federal Reserve of the United States and then Switzerland, it must be seen that in a way this has also been done here in Finland as part of the ECB. In other words, the monetary policy of all central banks is very similar, and now, because of the financial impact of this pandemic, a new purchase programme has been launched, i.e. in addition to the so-called APP programme extended in 2019, this PPP, the pandemic emergency purchase programme, will mean that the Bank of Finland's balance sheet will increase quite a bit according to these purchase programmes, I think, by comparing this Q2 to Q2 of the previous year. Thus, in a way, this has been what Mr Kiljunen was looking for here, which is, in fact, quite a lot of money in the hands of the central banks, which, of course, raises many questions and is also referred to in this report by the Banking Council. At the same time, however, I must say that this has been absolutely necessary. Without these very exceptional measures and these large-scale purchasing programmes, the economic effects that would have come from unemployment would have been quite different. In addition to this, there are also a number of other measures that have been taken both in the area of regulatory facilitation in order to ensure liquidity and, for example, in the business paper purchase programme, which was also launched in March. In other words, this monetary policy is very light at the moment, and it seems that interest rates will remain low for a long time, and it seems that all the central banks have been involved, but it will also require this fiscal policy on the other side. Endlessly [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u77	Mr President! Of course, Mr Lindtman is right that the Central Bank, the ECB itself, has also changed its monetary orientation. After all, we had very strict criteria in the Stability and Growth Pact in terms of budget deficits and debt ratios, when the central bank focused, above all, on the value of stable money and also on stable price levels, i.e. on anti-inflationary behaviour. In this respect, a change has genuinely taken place. If I remember the statistics correctly, in fact, in the last eight years the number of euros in national reserves has doubled. In other words, the real European Central Bank has also gone down the same path as the FED for almost 50 years, and the central banks are making, that is to say, able to create this money, and this is where the line has changed, above all during this corona crisis, to the fact that the central bank also has tasks related to economic growth, recovery and employment, that there is not only this stable price level if otherwise the economy wants to go completely into the mud in the sense that unemployment is increasing and we are losing growth. So in this respect, this monetary policy is more balanced at the moment. Of course, this corona crisis was not a very balanced situation, but the central bank has shouldered its responsibilities in this regard, and it must of course be registered here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u78	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u79	Mr President, everyone else is here! Too bad the chairman of the board of directors, Mr. Satonen, did not show up — he probably did not make it. As a current member of the Governing Board, I would actually like to take the floor because I am often contacted and it is said that when you are there on the Governing Board of Yle, why don't you do this and this and that. Now I'll be brief about this. This annual report, the report of the General Radio Board, is one of the tasks to be carried out by the Board of Governors, and this will be given annually for the previous year. The Management Board shall consist of 21 members elected by the Parliament and shall also include staff representatives. The Governing Board's role is very strategic: it chooses the company's Board of Directors and Chairman, but it directs Yle's operations through strategies and ensures that the tasks are carried out. We cannot intervene in individual decisions, and our meetings are not public, so, although sometimes I would like to say a few words about what I hear in those turbulent and squares, I cannot then tell you what might have been discussed there or whether there has even been a debate. We can, of course, bring your greetings there, but we cannot go there to paste and paste, that what will be shown there tomorrow and what will not be shown there. These tasks can be found in the Broadcasting Act, and everyone can look there. Then there is the board of directors separately, and the CEO is in charge there, and I think it is very important to note that. This report shows that Yle's financial revenues have been around EUR 481 million last year. Of these, 46.8% are staff costs. After all, the Finns have raised this issue of finance, and it has sometimes become a bit grumpy here and I find it quite unwarranted, because everything can be talked about. When tax resources are used, we can talk about it, even if something has been parliamentaryly prepared, but we have to throw the ball out of the ground if it can be re-prepared. There's been a pinch all over the place, and I guess there can't be a sacred thing that can't be re-conversed. I've sometimes heard that some reporters have thrown that hey, are you from the party that likes to suggest. You shouldn't take these personally. We are taking decisions here concerning different professions and different people and every single citizen, so they are not personal decisions, it is good to remember. Then I would like to say a few words about the public's confidence in Yle, which is in the study, with 67% saying that they trust Yle very much or quite much and only 7% of them trust little and 3% not at all. This in itself is a good result, but I would like to pay attention to the group that does not trust. However, if you think that YLE is a brand known to everyone, it is viewed in Arena, social media, television broadcasts, you should be able to trust it. I'm really worried that some people don't. This is a very big development in Yle, and this is something that I personally want to address, and that is something that I may have wanted to bring up in the Board of Directors, because I want to have confidence in the services provided with tax resources. And then there's one thing: It is clear from this that the majority of Finns hold Yle responsible and, at the very least, fairly open. More information is needed on the use of Yle-Tax, the company's operations in general and the choices related to content. Seventy-four per cent of them feel that they have received value for VAT. Well, it could be better, but just because it works with tax money, people naturally hope that they will also be able to influence the content — and of course the structure too, and, as the Finns of Finland have pointed out, it cannot be an undisputed subject. That's why I'd wake up the conversation again. At least in the last period we sometimes had a debate about the fact that when there are mainly publicly owned companies, such as Yle, and then municipal limited companies, for example, should we look at publicity legislation. After all, these are subject to a law on limited liability companies, which is very strict, but when this is mainly run with tax assets, as well as municipal limited liability companies, we might wonder if there would be some other kind of regulation for them, because is it a little sad that you can't really answer anything, even if I think that the citizens and the taxpayers have the right to know more about Yle's finances? This would now be something we could talk about, at least this increase in publicity, and this is what I hope for. If there are any more speeches here, please take a position on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u80	Mr President! The public radio is widely perceived as the media of the citizens, which, according to its mission, strengthens Finnish society and culture, and it is indeed necessary that it be open. The public service mission ensures a wide range of programme provision and territorial coverage in both national languages. Many people want positive programmes in areas and everyday affairs. Representative Meri referred to the duties assigned by Yle's law. I would like to raise three of these: support democracy and everyone's participation by providing a wide range of information, opinions and discussions, as well as interaction opportunities; in the context of learning, take account of the educational and equality aspects of the software, provide opportunities for learning and self-development, emphasise software for children and young people and offer devotion programmes; and then these tasks of exceptional circumstances, which of course have also been highlighted in the corona year. Mr President! Yle wants to be a producer of reliable information and domestic content, and here the survey raises these services of special groups — in connection with which subtitles need to be further developed; high-quality children’s programmes; the task of helping to better understand changes in Finland and elsewhere in the world — this requires diversity of views, world images and people who think differently — I hope for equality here; learning the knowledge and skills needed in modern times and increasing general education — here I see Yle’s continuing learning role; and yet, relevant media content and media services for people of different ages — I hope Yle’s media education. Mr President! This important task of Yle must be carried out responsibly on the basis of the values of Yle, independence, reliability and respect for man. There are comments in the public's feedback that we want agendas instead of babbling and talking about things, and I hope that Yle will remain a versatile, objective and impartial channel for the whole population.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u81	Mr President! The report of the Board of Directors shows that the media is living in a huge change in the operating environment, to which Yle also has to react and is allowed to react. The revolution in media use is accelerating, global competition has emerged, which has then challenged domestic media companies, and new technologies are becoming more and more common both in users and in the production and distribution of content, and more and more in the delivery of different things are being done by ordinary citizens — and that is a good thing. However, this raises the debate on Yle's social responsibility and the general principle of Yle's action, and that is why it is important that we stick to the independent media, which has a much larger role in social responsibility than merely producing content, for example, for the entertainment of citizens. Social responsibility is particularly emphasised, but Mr Meri also highlighted this trust. Confidence in the media in general is still high in society, but for Yle, the creation of trust and trust should be a top priority. As far as this independence and reliability are concerned, one important value is also respect for people and reliance on ethical principles in this area, and in this respect: Yle has to consider his activities many times more than other media companies. It has been pointed out here that this independence and the work of journalists are regularly monitored and, in fact, the Public Word Council dealt with seven complaints concerning Yle in 2019, five of which it issued a liberating decision to Yle. Of course, these two decisions are too much for Yle. I would also like to raise the issue that we saw some years ago when schools began to fear bringing politics into schools. I hope that Yle will not make the same mistake now, that politics will somehow be alienated because it is felt that perhaps the public is not always so interested in the content of the policy, or that somehow we want to emphasise independence and think that this independence will be avoided. This is certainly not the case, but I think that we Members of Parliament have seen, for example, a significant reduction in policy in the area of Yle, and in fact even the content of programmes in the field of radio has changed in a very different direction. YLE justifies this by the fact that this is what their listeners and users of their services expect, but I also think that the richness is that YLE offers what may not be the first hope and cause of the mainstream, because it also enables us to create a much wider perspective on society, but also to educate ourselves by getting to know things that are more foreign to us, and politics must not be done, to do things that are common to people, for example in Yle. Then I would like to highlight this programme offering for children and young people. In fact, it is a great thing that when I still know Little Two's Post by heart, I see that now I also get the same song to teach my daughter, for so long Yle has been working with children and young people. Time and again I wake up to how high-quality non-paying, educational content Yle produces for children and young people. It is absolutely first-class, and Yle is also constantly developing the programme activities for children and young people, and the latest application of Little Kakkonen's Eskari app has been introduced, especially from the Yle Arena side to the children. More generally, Yle Arena has also been the subject of development, and I believe that it is something in which Yle has not tripped over the fact that the world is changing, but rather started to develop it as a forerunner with it, and now it is seen that Yle Arena actually reaches a large proportion of the population. So thank Yle especially for the development of programmes and web concepts for children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u82	Mr President! The report from the Board of Governors of the Finnish Broadcasting Company gives a good and realistic picture of the company's operations last year. Yle is widely perceived as an independent public radio. Yle’s public service mission guarantees a wide range of TV and radio programmes and specifically regional coverage in both national languages. It is important for Finland to have Yle, who produces reliable news reporting, which is reliable news, and also a wide range of software. In fact, I would like to say that regional deliveries also play a very important role in Yle's activities and in raising regional news and issues. It often comes up in discussions, and it is one of Yle's important tasks. Last year Yle’s offer on radio and television was quantitatively on the previous year’s level, and Yle continued to increase content provision in Yle Areena and continued to invest in the development of mobile and online services. Yle also developed a wide range of content and services for different target groups. Yle's publishing and content production are based on the values of Yle, which include independence, reliability and respect for people. Important values that must also be respected, and it is important that we have Finnish Broadcasting, an independent radio. As far as the economy is concerned, it has to be said that Yle's economy from last year remained in line with the objective and balanced. After all, the general economy is, in fact, going through cycles of major sporting events every year. Then there will be a little minus, and the next year the economy will be restored. Previous speeches have also drawn attention to how people appreciate Yle and Yle’s public service. I would like to say that Finns appreciate Yle's public service and consider it even more important in society at this time. Trust in Yle is still at a high level, it is a good thing, and trust in Yle’s news activity in particular has remained very strong. Mr President! In conclusion, although it does not belong to last year, it belongs to Yle this year, that during this corona period I would like to thank Yle for the software they have had to change, and also for the corona-related news coverage that Yle has had.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u83	Mr President! Many of the speeches here thank you for the work of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, and there is no need to thank you. That has been very justified. At the end of his speech, Mr Salonen particularly thanked both the quality and quantity of programmes for children and young people in Yleisradio. However, I hope that the YLE Board will bring up one population group for which we cannot thank YLE in the same way as for programmes for children and young people, and this is about the elderly. We do not have a specific set of programmes for seniors in YLE. Studio55 was on Advertising Television, it was abolished, only on Alfa TV there is a Senior Seismic, but it is practically everything in that we have a strong demand for certain types of programmes, sets of programmes, things that are of particular interest to the elderly. I think it would be valuable if this public radio, our common public radio, which is paid with tax money, also provided a specific set of programmes for older people. Among other things, the Senior Movement has approached the Finnish Broadcasting Company, and the answer was: Yes, the senior population is the population, which in every respect is the most closely followed by radio and television programmes. Youth is the demographic group — if you take a population group — that least follows. That is why we need to invest specifically in young people's programmes, so that we can get young people to follow not only social media but also the Finnish Broadcasting Company, and we must not invest in the senior population who are watching the Finnish Broadcasting Company because they are looking at it themselves in any case. This is a very special approach. Why do we not also serve the part of the population that, through taxation, pays a significant part of YLE and YLE's activities and is also in proportion to the majority of the users watching and following the program service? In this respect, I hope that the Finnish Broadcasting Board will also draw attention to the fact that we could speak here as Mr Salonen did on the programmes for children and young people: jess, Yleisradio also takes the elderly into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u84	Mr President! Mr Meri spoke earlier about the need to talk about what tax money is being spent on and to dare to speak directly about these issues, and that is how it is. I would like to thank Mrs Yle for her responsible contributions and I am sure that the Governing Board has also acted to ensure that Yle's work develops and serves all citizens as well as possible. I have been concerned about the Finnish people's line on Yle and, above all, about the need to abolish the Yle-Tax if the level of journalism and the quality of production do not rise. What such reimbursement of the tax, a different payment card, should then mean: It would be particularly visible in the everyday lives of every citizen. This would be reflected in the fact that Yle’s basic activities would soon change and start running commercials. Perhaps the average people would no longer see them on television as they can now see them free of charge, and our Yle news and current activities, for example, would also deteriorate. These concerns have been very well expressed in his writings by the Chairman of the Management Board, Mr Satonen, and I believe that he will work on the Management Board to improve and improve the quality of the work. But I do not like the fact that the Finns of Peru are blackmailing in this way by the fact that if their preferences do not come on the programs, then suddenly a payment card and tax will be put away.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u87	Mr President! Representative Ovaska passed on this subject a little bit. What would increase confidence in Yle would certainly be more open, just as Mr Meri raised in his presentation. So it would certainly be good for everyone to have public-owned companies like Yle operating in accordance with the Publicity Act and its spirit as a whole. This is not about anything impossible. Great transparency can already be observed, and there is therefore nothing to prevent these companies from entering the principles of transparency in their statutes. All that is needed is that political will, and I believe that this increase in transparency would be conducive to the improvement of Yle's activities, as would a number of other publicly owned companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u88	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u89	Mr President! I present the Annual Activity Report of Kela’s delegates for 2019. As we know, the Social Insurance Institution is an independent institution of the state, but under parliamentary control of the parliament, whose task is to safeguard the basic income of the population, to promote health and to support independent survival in different life situations. Parliamentary supervision is carried out by the 12 Kela delegates appointed by Parliament, whose term of office is four years, i.e. the duration of the normal parliamentary term. In 2019 the parliamentary elections were held, and the composition of Kela delegates also changed in the summer of 18 June 2019. Kela’s delegates met nine times during 2019 and the Bureau met 13 times, i.e. on average once a month. The Bureau met more frequently, particularly at the end of the year, on the basis of the Director-General's election. The delegates followed the implementation and consequences of decisions taken in previous years very closely in 2019. The topics that raised the debate were the tendering of therapy services, which was carried out in 2018, the procurement of interpretation services for disabled persons, which took place in 2017, the situation of taxi services, as the taxi law changed in 2018, and the transfer of income support from municipalities to Kela in 2017. It can already be seen from these examples that procurement and tendering attracted the attention of the delegates, of which delegates generally received a lot of critical feedback from customers and publicity in 2019. Both the CEO and the delegates have commissioned external studies on Kela's competitions, and on the basis of these studies, a lot of work has been done in Kela in 2019, and this development work will continue. As a public purchaser, Kela must comply with procurement law and strive to improve the efficiency of the use of public funds by making high-quality and sustainable procurement. The second is, however, users of services, such as therapy services, which are vulnerable people and where the changes introduced by competitive tendering to service providers or providers can be unfairly targeted and violent even if the letter of the law is fulfilled. Procurement competence is centralised in Kela for the procurement service group of the joint service performance unit, which is responsible centrally for the tendering of the procurement for the whole Kela. In addition, the group is responsible for general guidance and advice on procurement. Cooperation with service providers and customer organisations has also been increased in the procurement of e.g. rehabilitation and interpretation services. At the same time, the preparation of the registration procedure has been continued. In 2019 170 procurement decisions were made in the Procurement Service Group. The debate on the availability of taxi services has also continued at meetings of the 2019 delegates and will continue. After the competitions in three provincial regions, the market law annulled the procurement decisions due to the wrong type of notification. The granting and payment of basic income support was transferred to Kela from the beginning of 2017. After the initial application processing congestion and other challenges, we have now been in a situation where in 2019 the average processing time has remained below the statutory seven working days. At the meetings of the delegates, the debate on basic income support has also continued last year and will certainly continue this year, because the beneficiaries are our weaker citizens, for whom we are all concerned. Fortunately, some of the initial challenges that have been encountered with regard to income support have already been overcome, and Kela has started to develop a new form of cooperation between Kela and municipalities in order to improve the smooth running of customer affairs. In addition, various experiments have been carried out with municipalities to develop joint operating models. In the case of income support, the delegates also generally paid attention to the increase in the number of basic income support applications and rejection decisions and to the reasons for their recovery. In addition to the close monitoring of Kela’s activities and its compliance with law and regulations by the delegates in autumn 2019, the new Director General Elli Aaltonen announced that they would retire on 1 January 2020. After the selection process, the delegates decided to appoint Outi Antilan as Director General at their meeting in November. In December, a new Board of Governors was also elected, which took office after the end of the year. Mr President! The benefit expenditure on social security managed by Kela amounted to EUR 14.9 billion last year. Compared with 2018, growth was 0.1 per cent. Operating expenses amounted to EUR 518 million and accounted for 3 per cent of total expenditure on defined benefit funds. In 2019 more than 15 million applications were received in Kela. The customers' needs and ways of doing business with Kela are changing, and Kela has tried to meet these needs for change. For example, in 2019 the telephone service was congested at the same time as the number of visitors to the service points decreased by some 400,000 compared to the previous year. The operation of service points has been developed by introducing more customer-friendly service concepts where, for example, the customer does not need a number and does not need to queue, but is immediately encountered at the door and guided to the right service. The number of visitors to the Kela.fi online service continued to grow last year, and the website was visited almost 46 million times, while the corresponding figure in 18 was about 44 million visits. During 2019, 14 service points were replaced by e.g. a service point, a distance service point or a pop-up service point and, for example, by activities connected to the social services office. However, efforts have been made to take the services where the customers are, with the aim of not catching up with e.g. IT skills. Mr President! Kela is very sensitive to headlines and tabloids. Compared to the number of different applications processed in Kela, the customer satisfaction index for personal customers on a scale of 0-10 for the whole of last year was 7.1. The result was in the same direction as in the previous survey. Customers were quite satisfied with Kela's ability to meet their service needs and Kela's services in general. The Kelans themselves also feel that their working community is working well and that Kela is working well. Several indicators of well-being at work are at a high level. The majority of staff find their work interesting, challenging, motivating and inspiring. Kela’s supervision is more than just the supervision of legality and appropriateness. It is also about people who need Kela's services.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u90	Mr President! I myself have been Kela's delegate since 2011, and just as the Chairman of Kela's Council said earlier, Kela's operations are very extensive and comprehensive. In fact, all Finns meet Kela's services in different life situations. In fact, during all these years, we have also had a discussion with Parliament about what should be the activity report of Kela's delegates, so that it would cover all the spectrum that Kela is doing, but on the other hand it would be sufficiently firm and always give the special characteristics of the years in question to Parliament. Over the years, there has been an attempt to do this, but this is a huge information package for every Member of Parliament, so if you are not so interested in what has been done in that year, there is also a lot of information here about Kela's activities in general and figures that are worth looking at. Interestingly, for example, in the case of income support, which moved to Kela in 2017, there are reports and details, circles from which it is seen that 10 per cent of the income support is granted for health care expenses. Of course, this indicates that if the last benefit is used to such a large extent for health care expenses, we also have something to do with the primary benefits. The same is true of housing: almost 50 per cent of income support, 49.6%, goes to housing-related expenditure. This does give rise to a debate on what this whole of social security is and what people actually need support for. Well, this reform work is, of course, under way. In fact, I am raising only two points about all of this because of the time limit, and these are also, in part, an eternity issue which has been mentioned in Kela's annual report for several years. One of these taxi rides that Kela has replaced. Starting in 2018, Kela launched a competition for taxi rides, and that was the first big debate. Of course, it was at an earlier stage, in fact, when these competitions were discussed about the replacement of taxi rides, but then the new law came into force in July 2018, a taxi reform which then brought new demands for the organisation of Kela's rides. For a long time, the Parliament also balled about this, that is to say, the acquisition by Kela, which is a poorly made acquisition, which we had had discussed again in previous years, but, in fact, the new law put Kela in a very difficult position and, as a result, the difficulties that had already been encountered only deepened. This discussion continued even to the side of 2019 at the meetings of the delegates. This has therefore been discussed on a very large scale and solutions have been sought to ensure that the vulnerable, especially those who have to use Kela rides to survive, are also able to get them all over Finland, as intended. The amount of feedback has now been reduced, but the problem has not yet been fully corrected, and this repairing of the losses of the taxi law is a huge piece of work that is being done at the moment. The second point that has been raised in this Chamber today in another context is these procurement competitions. Kela is a huge competitor and a huge supplier. It is therefore important that the delegates have also taken a special booth for several years. In particular, with regard to rehabilitation services and interpretation services, there have been problems in tendering, and that is why we also made a study of it, and the aim was to ensure that procurement is economically advantageous, but that it responds as well as possible to the needs of customers. An external study of open therapy services and their competitive tendering was also carried out by Kela delegates and the final report recommends a number of measures to address these competition problems. I think this is an important observation that Kela’s delegates have also carried out their inspection and control activities through the fact that external studies have then sought to give us more comprehensive information about what is at stake, that is, not only the reports from within Kela and from the Kela managers, but also the external reports, and these have, in my opinion, been very important information providers for the delegates. The only thing I can say is that, of course, we are now in a new situation with regard to this interest rate, and huge progress has also been made with regard to electronic services. I believe that a large proportion of Kela's customers are satisfied, but just as for the banks, as for Kela, it must be said that there are still those people who need their services face-to-face and need that service. In particular, I have now received messages that, for example, although cooperation in rehabilitating work activities with Kela seems to be a little lost now because many people have gone to remote work mode because of the recommendation for teleworking, and yet, especially in this customer interface, it would also be necessary to have that face-to-face interaction with Kela. I hope this will be addressed this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u91	Mr President! A well-organised and well-organised social security system is an important part of the Nordic welfare society. The State of Education takes care of the weakest, supports those in need and at the same time combats inequality. In this regard, the Social Insurance Institution carries out important work, which I follow as a deputy auditor. We are now discussing the Annual Activity Report of Kela’s delegates for 2019. Kela's defined benefit expenses totalled EUR 14.9 billion. The growth from the previous year was 0.1 per cent, i.e. in the same numbers. Expenditure on health insurance benefits increased by 3.8 per cent, while social security benefits decreased by 1.9 per cent. The main benefit in terms of the number of recipients was medical expenses, which were received by nearly four million people. The pension was received by over 600,000 people, and child supplements were paid to 1044,249 children. Fewer than 300,000 people received labour market support. We must take care of Finland's vitality, our businesses and employment conditions so that we can continue to help. The increase in Kela's personnel was halted last year. There were over 75,000 experts at work. The share of temporary employees decreased and the share of part-time employees remained unchanged. It remains to be seen how the corona year has changed this situation: whether staff can cope with the increasing workload. This will be helped by the continuous development and streamlining of services, but, as the representative said earlier, face-to-face encounters are also needed. However, the starting point for this exceptional year was good. Kelans feel that their working community is functional and that Kela is working well. Several indicators of well-being at work are at a high level. The majority of staff find their work interesting, challenging, motivating and inspiring. According to the personnel survey, 81% of staff are quite or very satisfied with their work. It was possible to reconcile work with private life for 88% of employees. In Kela, you will feel more strongly that your work can be affected. Kela received a school grade of 8+ as an employer, i.e. a good plus. Based on the results of the survey, the future development of Kela’s human resources targets include work load and improved occupational capacity management — familiar things about many jobs. For its part, this can be addressed, for example, through a reform of continuous learning, which will guide all those who work to the continuous completion, renewal and development of their own skills. Learning a new one becomes a part of doing a job. When you are motivated and enthusiastic, you will also be able to cope under pressure, and the pressure in Kela this year has certainly been great. Mr President! I would like to raise one more point from this report: the interpretation service for disabled persons, in which Kela wanted to strengthen the possibilities for customers to have an influence on the basis of feedback from previous years — well done. At the same time, there was a desire to increase the flexibility of the service according to the needs of the customers. In the autumn of 2019 a customer survey was carried out for interpretation service customers on the functioning of the interpreting service, and more than 660 responses to this survey were received. Interpreting is a significant service. Last year nearly 6,000 people were entitled to do so, of whom 3400 used the service. In 2019, 174 orders were made for this interpretation service, which is six per cent more than in 2018. I am pleased that this service has been developed and taken forward — thank you for that. I hope that the use of plain language will continue to be strengthened in Kela's customer-friendly services. English helps everyone. Thanks to Kela’s employees for their hard work and the delegates The continuous development of Kela's work and this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u92	‘Ceterumcenseo,I am of the opinion that Carthagoon should be destroyed’,decided in the In this context too, as the report of Kela's delegates has now to be reviewed, I would like to remind you that, within the framework of Kela, there has been a great deal of talk about digitalisation today, there has been an ever-increasing shift to digital services. I could make two wishes: (a) When switching to digital services, make these operating systems so simple that a person who uses digital services or who is less accustomed to digital services is able to cope with them, even a more clumsy person is able to cope with them. It now requires a little serious effort to build those links so that older people can also use them. b) When we have such a large number of older people who are not in digital services, please do not cut down on the Kela network where personal contact is possible. When Mr Lindtman said here that the bank representatives would pay attention to this infrastructure of banking services, access to basic services, you Kela delegates should do the same to ensure that these basic services are accessible to the Kela network, sufficiently dense and comprehensive that you do not force the elderly into excessive queues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u93	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u94	Mr President! The role of the Nordic Council as a defender of Nordic well-being is emphasised in times of crisis. The global situation in 2019 was only in crisis, but the economic outlook in particular was already clearly deteriorating. The current pandemic and economic crises are not minor, temporary, but will always be new and even more severe. Here and now, it is all the more important to understand the opportunities, value and importance of Nordic cooperation. The Nordic Council must focus on essential issues and strengthen cooperation between the Nordic countries. Important common Nordic themes during the Swedish Presidency last year were democracy, equality, climate, digitalisation and border barriers. During the Koronapandemia, these themes have been highlighted in particular by issues related to well-being, equality, digitalisation and border barriers. The fact that the Nordic countries are pulling together, building common strategies, applying the same principles, interpreting laws and regulations in the same way and working together is more important than ever. The theme session of 2019 was held in Denmark and its main themes were equality and democracy. Among the concerns raised during the discussions were: the gendered labour market, the pay gap between women and men, violence against women and sexual harassment. The distribution of responsibility for parental leave and care and the participation of boys and men in equality work were also emphasised. Equality comes from us and cannot be a positive or negative discrimination in relation to gender. In essence, is it not the fact that all inhabitants of the Nordic Region are equal before the laws, whether at work, out of work, care or care, studying or retired? Mr President! The Nordic countries are close in nature and culture to each other in peace and tranquillity. Indeed, there are strong expectations for the Nordic Region in terms of crisis prevention and prevention. This is the core of the natural Nordic security policy cooperation. Strong national support and social debate on these themes is important. The debate must be able to look not only at global issues but also at the internal and external security of the Nordic countries from different perspectives on the basis of facts. In recent years, mediation has also been strongly reflected in the work of the Nordic Council. The Centre for Resolution of International Conflicts of the University of Copenhagen produced a report, the results of which were published at a seminar organised by the Nordic Council in April 2019. The key message of the peace mediation seminar was that now is the time to strengthen cooperation, with added value in terms of practicality, access to information, shared values, high trust and a strong culture of cooperation. In connection with the Council's September meeting, the Finnish delegation of the Nordic Council held a parliamentary debate on Nordic foreign and security policy cooperation today and in the future. The strength of the Nordic countries is the ability to work in bilateral and multilateral forms of cooperation. It should be noted that experience shows that cooperation works best when it brings clear added value to all countries and does not create new structures. Border barrier work is at the heart of Nordic cooperation. In order for the Nordic countries to truly become the most integrated region in the world, mobility must be improved and border barriers must be dismantled so that we build Nordic prosperity and security. In addition, we must prevent the emergence of new border barriers which undermine the economy, security and the ability to care for our citizens. In the report year 2019, the Border Obstacles Council has prioritised barriers to business and citizens working in a country other than its home country. The work of the Border Barriers Council and the Border Barriers Working Group will be emphasised this year and in the future, hopefully also in terms of resources. The latest news from the Border Barriers Group comes from last week's meeting, where we decided to send a letter to the Prime Ministers to take joint responsibility for building Nordic cooperation more strongly. It is not just the role of the Ministers for Cooperation, but a much more important entity. We are talking about the joint capacity of the Nordic countries and measures to better cope with and recover from the current and future crises. The Nordic Council lives in time and works around acute themes. There was not the slightest smell of Koronapandemia when the Nordic Council adopted the Social Security Strategy at its October plenary session. The strategy provides a clear direction for Nordic cooperation on issues related to social security and provides systematic cooperation. One concrete proposal for action in the strategy is the creation of a separate, independent Commission. Joint knowledge, experience and preparedness strengthen Nordic preparedness for possible crises and disasters. Such close cooperation is now more necessary than ever. The motto “we’re stronger together ” is more timely than ever. Cooperation also requires a stronger and more visible commitment from the level of top management in the countries. Would it even be worth considering that prime ministers should play a greater role in building Nordic cooperation? Would Nordic cooperation thus have a greater positive impact on Nordic everyday life, well-being and the future? Finally, as vice-chairman of the delegation, I would like to thank the Finnish delegation and officials for the past year and for their active approach to Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u95	Mr President! Thank you to the vice-president of the delegation for these warm and good words and for the report on our work. This is an important section — I waited here for this evening — because although there are not many of us, cooperation between the Nordic countries is now becoming increasingly important. As the world roars and the border fences grow, then we go for partners, and of course they are the first ones to be picked up next door. This report also shows that Nordic cooperation does not always happen so quickly, but I would like to highlight the project on electronic identification launched here in 2015. This has now been taken forward in the Council of Ministers for Digitalisation and this political dialogue has also taken place, which means that these recommendations, which have been raised in the Nordic Council, will be followed up. Let us now hope that this electronic identification will proceed. The second is what my group over there, the Mittengruppe, the middle group, is driving to make the so-called mobile pay systems work between the Nordic countries, so that it can also move forward and facilitate the systems. And one more thing that I have been thinking about here and what we have been discussing in the middle group is this renewal of social security numbers. We have talked about it in Finland, and 2017 has started work and studies on it, and now this government has registered this programme, but we are not the only ones in Finland, but Norway is also reforming this system and it is there that we are thinking about: identity numbers for gender and age-neutrals. As a middle group, we have proposed that the Nordic countries negotiate the situation and this reform of the ID system, and perhaps we should now also take a little time out and see what happens in the Nordic countries in this regard. In other words, I personally would like to see these reforms taken forward, and see if we could create a system of Nordic personal identification systems that would facilitate both job search and the fact that when you move to another country you would not have to get all of them again. This would make it possible to reduce mutual recognition and these barriers to the border in this respect. I hope that the Council of Ministers will also take this into consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u96	Mr President! Thank you, Vice-President of our delegation, Mr Rande, for the clear presentation of this annual report and for looking forward to a bold future. I have now had a good six months in this time of the activity report as a member of the delegation and of the Committee on Knowledge and Culture. Last year’s host country, the Swedish Presidency, was entitled ‘Support for the Arctic-Democracy and Citizens of the Nordic Countries’. It has come to life in this year’s corona. The Annual Report contains a new vision for Nordic cooperation. At their meeting in August of the reporting year, the Nordic Prime Ministers agreed that Nordic cooperation will focus more on climate change and sustainable development. The new vision of the Nordic Council of Ministers aims to make the Nordic Region the most sustainable and integrated region in the world by 2030. The vision has three strategic priorities: Green Nordic, Competitive Nordic and Socially Sustainable Nordic. The Nordic Council's position has been that it is precisely the Nordic Council of Ministers' own vision, because the Council did not make a significant contribution to it. The vision contains important things. Together, we want to promote the transition of societies to a green economy, as well as part of carbon neutrality and a sustainable circular and bioeconomy. Together, we want to promote green growth in the Nordic Region, based on knowledge, innovation, mobility and digital integration. There is a desire to work together to promote inclusion, equality and unity in areas with shared values and strengthening cultural exchanges and well-being. However, I am concerned that civilised matters fell out of this vision of cooperation. They remained in the vision as transversal themes, which easily means cuts. The Committee on Skills and Culture in the Nordic Region is now in danger of a significant reduction in its budget. It's harmful and it's unfortunate. Right now, there is a need for heart education, continuous learning and Nordic cooperation in education and culture. The interest period has by no means reduced this need. Mr President! In connection with the September Council meetings, the Finnish delegation of the Nordic Council organised a parliamentary debate on Nordic cooperation in foreign and security policy today and in the future under the theme ‘Northern cooperation on foreign and security policy’. As Mrs Ranne said, the more uncertain the world situation becomes, the more important it is to cooperate well between neighbours, in close cooperation with the Nordic countries. It also involves border barrier work. It is important that what has now been learned in the course of the interest rate be put in place so that, when the next crisis comes, we will be better able to work together and manage as a larger group. As Nordics, we are stronger together. As a Nordic family, it is also good to deepen cooperation in the opposite direction with our neighbours and relatives Estonia.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u97	Mr President! Valuable speeches have been made here on Nordic cooperation, and, like Mr Ovaska, who has already left the Chamber, I too have remained here primarily because of this annual report from the Nordic Council. But, in fact, I thought there was also an annual report from the Council of Europe delegation here today, but it does not appear to be on this list — I noticed it earlier that it was missing. We will return to that at a later stage. Of course, when Finland joined the Nordic Council in 1955 at the same time as the United Nations, these were the first steps since the war. Finland participated in the international multilateral system. At that point, the work of the Nordic Council was a truly important opening up for Finland: the creation of a common labour market in the Nordic countries, a common passport freedom and so on, which significantly integrate Nordic societies closer together, and we do, of course, get Nordic cooperation to thank, among other things, for the fact that we have this welfare state concept that we have built up — it is much the result of this joint Nordic model, and thank you for that. This Nordic cooperation has, of course, deepened in many ways, and we heard in the speech just now that foreign and security policy has also become part of the work of the Nordic Council. That was a taboo there for a long time, and it was not discussed at Nordic Council level. However, the work of the Nordic Council changed substantially from Finland's point of view by the time Finland joined the European Union in 1995 at the latest, and in this respect I would like to raise the issue now, and I would like to ask the Finnish delegation in the Nordic Council to give some thought to whether it would be appropriate at some point to consider whether the Nordic Council would be enlarged — Mr Kinnunen had finished his speech specifically in relation to Estonia, but that the Baltic countries would be involved? In many multilateral contexts, the Council of Europe and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the so-called NB8 group, the Nordic countries and the Baltic countries often come together, particularly on the parliamentary side, but also on intergovernmental cooperation, and it might perhaps be appropriate at some point to consider that these small Nordic countries could form a system of cooperation such as the Nordic Council. I know from which direction it is particularly alienated, perhaps most from the Swedish side, but when we already have all the other Nordic countries and the Baltic countries together in the European Union, except for Norway and Iceland, which, through certain arrangements, are also involved in European cooperation, it could be a strengthening factor for this European cooperation. I'm going to leave this to myself and to think about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-23-ps-117.u98	Your Honor! Unfortunately, Mr Ovaska has left, but we already have a proposal for a joint Nordic electronic identification system, which was drawn up in cooperation between the Border Barriers Advisory Group and officials. The whole Finnish delegation approved this proposal for membership, and I hope that the Council of Ministers will now also discuss this. There is a great deal of concern about the fact that different digital innovations are creating more barriers to borders, and on the contrary, such systems should unite us and not separate us.
