ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 8/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should remain in force or whether it should be partially or totally repealed and whether it will be in force for a fixed or shorter period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u2	Mr President! I would like to present the main points of this report: In the General Assembly on 27 March 1920, the Government decree on the introduction of the powers provided for in Article 118 of the Emergency Act has been adopted by the Government. This is an implementing regulation in accordance with Section 6 of the Emergency Response Act. The Regulation repeals the previous Regulation of the same name. On 27 March 2020, the plenary session of Parliament sent the matter to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the preparation of the report. The Regulation lays down the powers to impose restrictions on movement in exceptional circumstances within the meaning of Article 3(5) of the Emergency Act. According to Article 118 of the Act on Preparedness, a Government decree may temporarily prohibit or restrict the right to reside and move in a specific locality or region for a maximum period of three months if it is necessary to prevent a serious danger to human life or health. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that regulations on the application of the Emergency Act should only be adopted after the Parliament has taken a decision on the validity of the adoption regulation in accordance with Article 6 of the Emergency Act. The Decree of 25 March 1920, which was repealed by the Decree of 25 March 1920, had been adopted under Article 6 of the Emergency Act. However, the Regulation provides not only for the introduction of powers under Article 6 of the Emergency Act but also for their application in accordance with Article 118 of the Emergency Act. Article 2 of the repealed Regulation contained the provisions on restrictions on freedom of movement to be adopted pursuant to Article 118 of the Emergency Act. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs points out that Article 2 of the Regulation The regulation contained in the Act could only have been adopted after the Parliament has taken a decision on the validity of the implementing regulation in accordance with Article 6 of the Emergency Act. The Government's approach to the adoption of the regulation adopted on 25 March 1920 is contrary to the recent positions of the Constitutional Committee and is also legally incorrect in terms of the organisational aspects of the Emergency Act. Since then, the deficiency identified in the regulation of 27 March 1920 has been remedied and the content of the regulation can be considered to be permanent Article 6 of the Emergency Act. the implementation of the Regulation in the context According to the explanatory memorandum, the introduction of the powers provided for by the Regulation is intended to limit and slow down the spread of viral infections in human contact with the minimum burden of disease in the population at the same time. According to an assessment of the situation presented by the Government in the explanatory memorandum, the introduction of Article 118 is necessary to curb the progress of the epidemic in order to ensure the functioning of the health system during the pandemic and, in particular, to ensure the possibility of intensive care to save lives. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that the right to move freely from one place to another is an important element of the self-determination of the individual. Article 9(1) of the Constitution covers, in the view of the committee, the right to move around from one place to another and within a single place. In view of the very strong objectives to be set for the introduction of the Emergency Act in the event of a pandemic, in order to safeguard the functioning of the health system and thereby combat serious threats to human life and health, the Constitutional Committee considers that the introduction of restrictions on freedom of movement as such is acceptable and, in the light of the committee's report, also necessary. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that, as the epidemic progresses from Uusimaa to the rest of Finland, there is no longer any legal basis for the restriction on movement under Article 118 or has changed, the restriction is amended or the regulation is repealed. Following the decision of the Parliament that the Government decree on the introduction of the powers provided for in Article 118 of the Emergency Act should not be repealed, the Government may adopt a decree on the application of Article 118 of the Emergency Act. In setting mobility restrictions, due to the proportionality of regulation, mobility should be taken into account for essential reasons. In the view of the Government, Article 2 of the repealed regulation This was a rule of non-essential movement. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs draws attention to the fact that studies may also constitute a necessary reason for mobility if the regulation currently being assessed is in force for longer than the Government Decree on temporary restrictions on the obligation to organise early childhood education and education and training. Furthermore, the committee stresses that a restriction such as the one proposed, which would mean in-depth interference with the freedom of movement guaranteed by Article 9 of the Constitution, can only be based on precise and precise regulation, rather than, for example, the references made in the explanatory memorandum. Mr President! The committee's proposal for a decision is that the Government Decree of 27 March 1920 on the introduction of the powers provided for in Article 118 of the Emergency Act may remain in force. That is the unanimous position of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u3	We have a little over three hours until midnight, and the Government must implement the implementing regulation before that happens. I would ask you to take this into account in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u4	Mr. Speaker! Parliament's timetables and working methods have been completely renewed in these days, and this has been justified and necessary. Of course, we representatives and the whole Parliament must show flexibility in every way in this situation. I would like to express my particular thanks to the Presidents and the groups who have been prepared to modify this work as necessary. The government has had to prepare proposals in a hurry and under pressure, and they have also been discussed here as a matter of urgency. But they have not been any sort of push-through in such a way that Parliament has neglected its duty to examine them carefully, and that is why many committees have also made the necessary changes and clarifications. I believe that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also done a good and careful job here, because we are indeed dealing with very far-reaching, even principled methods and issues. We are not experts in epidemiology, but we are well aware of the arguments that have now led to the introduction of these preparedness laws and these measures, which are therefore both acceptable and necessary. Of course, it is not as clear as whether these are the right, effective and best measures right now. That is something we will only know when we make an ex-post evaluation. The precautionary principle must now be respected, and everyone should also follow the guidelines and regulations that have been laid down. I am not saying this because I would reserve anyone the opportunity for hindsight, but we all certainly need hindsight after such a situation. This applies to all of us, and this also applies to the international community, because this is not a Finnish problem. Fortunately, we live here in a welfare state in which our chances of success and death are not dependent on wealth, but on the same grounds all people are cared for. Equally important and happy is the fact that we are in a Finnish democratic rule of law and in such a state when the criteria exist, as is the case now, so such measures can also be adopted. This is nowhere in the world for granted. We now see how this situation is being used even in some of the Member States of the European Union, even in the countries that are close to us — not to mention the countries that are far away. Nor am I going to name the desire to strengthen authoritarian regimes and to deny democratic fundamental freedoms. Here we can be confident that there is no such effort, but it requires constant vigilance on our part and also the work that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u5	Mr President! Who would have thought a few months ago that Parliament would have to deal with the closure of restaurants or restricting the movement of Uusimaa and other Finland. The right to free movement is an important fundamental human right and the justification for restricting movement must be strong, but the right to life is the most fundamental constitutional right, and, not only in Finland, it has been necessary to introduce exceptional measures to protect life and at the same time limit other rights and freedoms. As has been pointed out, these government arguments have pointed out that, contrary to what was initially thought of as a pandemic, corona infection is also very serious in some younger age groups, and a significant proportion of patients admitted to hospital treatment, even a third, have been taken after a few days of intensive care. The need for intensive care is also long-term. It is important to ensure that the capacity for intensive care is maintained, and that is what we are trying to do with this regulation. If the progress of the disease in part of the country can be halted or slowed down, lives will be saved and the capacity of health care will be released. A lot of people who are very ill are treated in HUS. I have pointed out that it is necessary to ensure proactively now that the right to health care remains equal and that the health care capacity between Uusimaa and the rest of Finland needs to be balanced in time so that the medical care or the factors that are transferable are used flexibly within the country. Cancer treatments, births and other acute health care needs must be safeguarded, and anticipation is indeed important. Just a few hours ago Helsingin Sanomat published a new study by Aalto University researchers on the progress of the corona epidemic in Finland. It is known that it takes more than a week to get infected to hospital and usually a couple of weeks to develop into a critical phase. This is why anticipation is central to this resolution of the disease. The researcher notes that, in the light of these figures, they estimate that closure of Uusimaa is necessary, but the spread of the disease must be slowed down within Uusimaa as well. The disease appears to be about twice the population in Uusimaa. It is essential that restaurants, bars and cafés also become quiet, and now everyone has to do everything in their power to avoid contact. This calculation shows that it is possible that if people now do not comply with the restrictions and these measures are not enough, then HUS intensive care facilities may be filled in the next few weeks. These are pretty stop-and-seek information. We really must do everything we can to ensure that our government and Parliament's resources and the resources of the authorities do not go too far, for example, to implement this solution in Uusimaa. That's the decision we're making. It's moving forward. We must have plans to stop this disease and its next steps in Uusimaa very early and immediately. We must show that resources and follow-up measures can be put to an end in Uusimaa, where this corona epidemic has indeed progressed in the worst way in Finland. We must examine every possible means, trace the transmission chains through testing and other measures. We also need to communicate better with people. Now that researchers say that this next week is crucial, we must have the resources immediately enough to ensure that every single person on that street knows and sees that we now have to follow the instructions of the authorities, and it must be unambiguous that these instructions are known. Then, on the other hand, we know from human behavior that even then not everyone will follow the instructions, and there are many psychological reasons for it, but then we have to consider what the next steps are if they do not work the way we expect them to. In Germany, for example, the threshold has been lowered. Now we are recommending the gathering of ten people, max., officially — we hope that less than ten, but we need to consider all the means that we can really get quickly now. In Uusimaa, this epidemic has been stopped. The Norwegian Government announced this week that it has changed its strategy, that it is no longer just trying to contain the epidemic but is trying to stop it. This is a general development in many European countries now, because it has been discovered that it will also be extremely painful economically for people to be isolated for several months. That is why it would be important to ensure that we now have all the new technologies and information available so that we can reduce and halt the flow of this epidemic and, in particular, identify the supply chains. As far as Uusimaa is concerned, it is stated here that a single chain of infections may now be one of the key factors in this epidemic and in whether people are now receiving hospital care. And now, as has been said a lot in this Chamber, one of the key factors is that when people come back here they really have a known quarantine site and everyone has a place to go. We discussed in plenary that if we wanted this kind of non-voluntary quarantine, it would require legislative changes. Well, now we do not have such legislative changes, so this is also based on voluntary action and people's actions on their own. It is therefore important that this quarantine site is free of charge or very affordable for people who do not have a place to go when they arrive in Finland from abroad, perhaps from Spain, from the worst epidemic areas. It is much cheaper for us to offer people two weeks of our empty hotels or apartments the quarantine place than we are paying for intensive care. Intensive care is extremely expensive, and people will die anyway, despite our good medical treatment. Now it is very important that everyone makes their own contribution to avoiding physical contact. And all official activity must now be aggravation. This is it. This is it. We cannot now act in the way we normally do, everyone knows that. We need to make our production chain work. If there's anything missing, we have to deal with it. Now is not the time to look for normal conditions and responsibilities in others, but
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u6	Mr President! All of us who have come to this evening's sitting can sense the significance of this moment. Clearly, we are taking historic exceptional measures. Today, and at this very moment, we are dealing with fundamental civil rights. We have intervened in the area of industrial freedoms, we are now talking about restrictions on movement. It is as if it is bigger than life — in fact, it is bigger than life when it comes to life itself. This has also created this common spirit that we realize that temporary solutions of this kind are absolutely necessary — that is, temporary solutions, this is underlining. The rest of Finland is now isolated from Uusimaa or Uusimaa is isolated from the rest of Finland, depending on how you look at it. But in any case we are in the process of creating an internal border, of controlling the border, of controlling the movement of people, and we genuinely know that this is necessary at this very moment, so that the disease does not spread from here in Uusimaa to the rest of Finland, with the power that it would spread without these restrictions on movement, and, on the other hand, we are also trying to protect the health capacity in the rest of the country, above all that intensive care capacity, and that is why these measures are absolutely necessary in this respect. One can only hope that the public will genuinely follow and follow the advice given by the health authorities. It's the best way to actually kill this devious virus before it kills us. So in this respect we are forced to take all the measures we can take and, above all, we must all look, of course, at the distances, the physical distance, but especially at these risk groups — all of them are already at risk at the moment, but when mortality, vulnerability is highest for older people and long-term ills, we must especially protect them from being separated from this disease. In this respect, it has also been great to see this enormous innovation that is currently present in Finnish society. Only one example of the service that the City of Helsinki and the parishes have now established here in the worst areas of the virus, which aims to ensure the provision of food for people over 70 years of age: HOK-Elanto has been ready to make a food ordering service by telephone, a service system similar to that of many village merchants in many villages, in relation to elderly people, so that they can get their purchases by merchants to their door. This is this great activity. Today I visited my own grocery store in Western Finland, and there was a sign on the door that tomorrow at seven to eight only people from high-risk groups can come here, and there are other places like this in Finland. That is precisely how we must now safeguard that all of us use this judgment to avoid the spread of this disease and, as has been said, we must overcome this disease before it defeats us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u7	Mr President! I will try to follow the President's and Mrs Doomsman's idea: I am flexible and will shorten my speech just because, as the President said, we will actually be able to make these available today. One thing I really want to ask you is what you do not even have to answer today when there is not even a minister here who might be able to answer is why this was not given as a matter of urgency. The Act of Preparedness would allow us to deal with this afterwards. This would have removed the fact that people then left here. I understand that in a situation where Parliament is divided about the objective and means, it is very important to cling to formal issues. But perhaps in this case I would have looked at this in a slightly different way, not so fundamentally, given that I have not at least heard from this Chamber that there is no consensus here that the isolation of Uusimaa is now necessary and that life should be protected. That, in that sense, I do not quite understand this when we are in agreement. I would understand that if we are talking about some kind of sovereignty or oligarchy when we are going through qualified majority voting, but if there is a clear will and unanimity, then I do not understand it a bit like hifing on that issue. But let us then attack the Emergency Act next time it does not seem to be agile enough. I'm going to end here to get the regulation into effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u8	May I ask you to stay there more and more while there is room now for security distances to be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u9	Mr President! Finns are concerned about their health, safety and economy. Many are afraid of an infection that has already led to death in the world and also in the world. Many are concerned about loved ones and friends. Similarly, citizens are concerned about their livelihood and the availability of services provided by society. We live in an exceptional situation where normal life has been compromised. It is therefore incomprehensible how all kinds of social media professors are competing for how they could make it more difficult to combat this disease on the basis of the principle of application of the law. Professor Martin Schein, for example, has said that the isolation of such a large area as Uusimaa is questionable from the constitutional point of view. I don't know if all the TV professors have noticed yet, but the crisis caused by the corona virus is global. In Finland, three-quarters of the confirmed infections are located here in Uusimaa. In this background material, Schein has invoked municipal restrictions. However, it is very difficult to imagine that the availability of resources at the moment would be at a level that would allow the authorities to monitor the movement outside at a time, rather than more intensively controlling the main exits. Even the obligation to work is considered to be contrary to a nuance, although it is absolutely necessary to ensure effective care for patients. Schein also criticises the government for the measures that are likely to result in someone losing their lives. Schein points out that as a result of the rampage, the progression of the disease in Uusimaa will increase. This certainly holds true in all its horrors. However, it is better to seek regional isolation of the problem than to allow the disease to flow throughout the country. The majority of the population live somewhere other than here. The Government's proposal to isolate Uusimaa is therefore justified and appropriate. It's not the first time the restrictions have touched you. In 1989, Mr Harkimo stated: ‘It is not expected that the laugh will end with the reporting of restrictions which have been piled up’. Mr President! We have thanked the government for the measures it has taken. However, the timeliness of these actions is no longer in line with the acute situation of the crisis. A demographic comparison between different countries shows the rate of spread of the virus and the effectiveness of government action. According to it, Finland's efforts have now become even less effective in South Korea. Then why is this so hard? What makes this exceptional situation so that only bureaucracy is not flexible? I agree with Professor Scheinin on something, perhaps for the first time. According to him, the restrictions on the movement of Uusimaa should be put into effect immediately. I am pleased that the government has now also taken this line and we have time to do so today. However, passengers from the affected area have arrived at the airport. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has not, according to its own words, been aware of them. The State Department knows, but they haven't bothered to share information with anyone else. They also know that Finavia is guilty, even though it does not even have authority. Now they're handing out info leaflets at the airport. I'm beginning to doubt the management problem in this situation. The words of the late writer Paavo Haaviko should be remembered. He has stated: ‘When decisions are important,there are many of them. “ On the other hand, there are also quite a few of us here. Possible carriers will continue to enter the country through the airport, and The isolation of Uusimaa has taken so long that many Finns have already jumped into their car and drove along our bumpy roads to every corner of our country. We're unhelpably late. Sorry about the language, but this is a direct quote from the open letter from the Turku Employers' Association to the Board of Directors published today in the Turun Sanomat: “Taken in your perkelettos with these emergency screams and markets. People's need is real. We need to make decisions quickly. And when we say that, we talk about days, not weeks.” We have seen that this preparedness law is clearly not ready for crises in itself, but it is positive that we have a common will, and as a result, action and borders are closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u10	Mr President! Thank you for this regulation, which is absolutely essential for the protection of life. I would like to raise two important issues relating to this life-threatening pandemic. The other representative, Mr Junnila, has already referred to management. The second point is age discrimination. When important and necessary decisions are taken in Finland to safeguard the lives and health of citizens, they must be made quickly, clear, justified and convincing so that there is no panic, so that citizens also feel that they know what is being done and everything is being done for the good of the citizens. The extreme solutions will then be adopted just as the one we are discussing today, and the provisions relating to them will also be better complied with. The government has now taken steps in the right direction, such as the restrictions on the Uusimaa. Unfortunately, however, there has been too late and too little progress. In leadership, we can see the slow, unclear and uncertain passage of the necessary decisions. Weak management and communication always have a price. Early notification of the restriction has generated huge flows of people in the provinces. In small towns where there may be only one store, people are shocked when people from the capital region show up to tell us how they came here: quarantined and sick, but now they're here to cough and spend their free time. Such irresponsibility shocks us all. Communication and speed are important. So if we had acted faster, maybe people wouldn't have gone crazy and now they'd be in a better situation in the provinces. Of course, we do not even know how bad it is because of the lack of testing. Mr President! One of the cornerstones of leadership and wisdom is, therefore, recognition of facts — and timely recognition. Now that we acknowledge that the pandemic took us by surprise and the preparation fails, we will be able to prevent numerous losses. However, it still seems that the talking heads are calming down in public and health care, that everything is being taken care of and that the crisis has been well prepared. I believe that a lot of people have now realised that this is not the case. At grass roots level, the situation is even chaotic. I'm sure you've all received those messages. These facts must be recognised in order to manage the crisis properly — a strong, clear, fair management.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u19	Mr President! It is good to agree with the final words of the representative, specifically about combating the virus, preventing it. But it must also be remembered: “The truth of the story is bold. Do not intimidate or share information that may not be certain.” These should also be remembered in this Chamber for each of us. However, it is now the case that in the next few hours, most likely, Uusimaa will be isolated. This is a very radical move. As has now been seen in the news, there have been concrete pigs, police officers, and the military and the Defence Forces have also prepared to assist in this task. We will do all we can to prevent and isolate this virus, as is now the case with this province. This is, at the latest, a sign of the seriousness of the situation. I hope this helps too. At the moment, a human experiment is being conducted in our western neighbor. It must be admitted that their strategy is completely different from that of Finland, Denmark or Norway. We can only guess what will come of it, but hopefully it will not pose a threat to Finland as it may seem to be at the moment. I entirely agree with Mr Meri that the emergency law should certainly be reviewed. And even now that this report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is being read, it inevitably comes to mind that, fortunately, this is not an emergency situation which would involve an armed attack, which should act quickly. Fortunately, this is where the government has acted quickly and also the parliament and the Bureau, as the representative of the Court of Justice has rightly pointed out. We have made rapid progress and are now moving things forward. And now that we hope to get this through here before midnight, the Government will then take its own steps. Mr President! It must also be said that the common enemy is united, and this common enemy, the corona, has united citizens and also parliamentarians and parliamentary groups. Now every moment must be used to slow down this virus so that it does not spread again, and to prevent it, and above all to ensure that resources are made available to the hospital district, cities and municipalities, so that they can do everything possible to help patients in hospital and intensive care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u20	Mr President! First of all, we must thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the swift handling of this matter, so that it is now again in this Chamber, and the Council of State, which has put forward a new proposal very nicely today, and I will not prolong it because it is urgent and it is urgent to bring this into force today to get the implementing regulation out, but I would like to say a few things about this situation. First of all, as representative Ovaska in this excellently pointed out, it has been a sort of tragedy to follow up this act of preparedness on issues like this. I think that it has already been observed across party boundaries that it does not work in such a situation, and of course it must be happy that this disease is not another disease now, because otherwise we might have a very difficult situation when it is already there. And it is certainly also the case that this should be introduced in such a way that it should be possible to adopt or implement a single block so that it comes into one block at a time, and then the government would have the tools in place more quickly, because unfortunately this virus does not seem to be waiting. We have huge levels of infection in Europe — let's look at Spain, Italy — but the same is true in Finland. This virus is not acting any differently here. It's spreading every hour, every minute. I would also like to point out here that this may have been a bit of a backtrack and a lot of the first part was that this disease is dangerous, mainly for the ageing population, and it may not have been so busy to do anything before it was discovered that this hit young people too, and it is appropriate for everyone at this point to consider whether this is a good starting point. The old man is just as human as the young one, and I guess we don't want to lose them. As far as this restriction on the movement of Uusimaa is concerned, it is certainly necessary at this point so that it does not spread outwards, but, on the other hand, within Uusimaa we also have high levels of infection, and they are not the verified cases, but perhaps about 20 to 30 times that, so perhaps it would be appropriate to hope that if these instructions — stay at home and leave there just for the necessary things, such as the grocery store, the pharmacy or the doctor — do not get there enough, then there is certainly also reason to do something inside Uusimaa, because we do not want this disease to spread even more here. And to this point I would also like to raise the issue of this airport further, because today I have been very surprised when this seems to be a common-risk communicable disease according to THL and the Act on communicable diseases is based on the fact that the authority is, in fact, obliged to act in these situations. Article 60 the quarantine is based on the fact that the doctor responsible for infectious diseases can then put a person in quarantine — the law does allow this, when it was said in this Chamber just now that he would not allow it. Then there's another thing. Now, the essence of this strategy must be to stop this virus. As Mrs Holopainen has said here, in Aalto University's latest calculations it seems that if we do not succeed with these restrictions, then HUS will run out of intensive care facilities within a few weeks. Therefore, we may not necessarily be able to continue by lowering this number of infections, because that is not necessarily enough. That is why I would like the government to change the strategy to try and stop the virus by any means possible, and that is even more restrictive, because they are based on trying to protect life for every human being. These restrictive measures are certainly not easy, but there is no disease either. It spreads every hour, every minute, so my message to everyone who is now listening is to stay home.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u21	Mr President! As has been said many times in this Chamber, the fundamental right, the right to life, is now being protected and the more effective we are going to be, the more lives we will be saving. This has come out clearly from international examples as well as from Finland's recent activities. It has been great to see that so many Finns really understand this and want to act as responsibly as possible. Such responsibility is the cornerstone of a free society and reduces the need for obligations and coercive measures. This is also the starting point of the Emergency Act. Efforts must be made to minimise the coercive measures to be taken under these exceptional circumstances. According to Article 4 of the Act on Preparedness, the powers of the law can only be exercised in ways which are necessary to achieve the purpose of the Act and in proportion to the objective pursued by the exercise of the power to act. Therefore, exceptional circumstances do not justify measures that have not been carefully weighed and considered. On the contrary, it is at this very time that it is essential to weigh and consider action on human rights as well. This is expressly stated in Article 23 of the Constitution, which provides for exceptional circumstances. It is at these times that the values of the welfare state are becoming central. The most vulnerable groups — the elderly, the severely disabled — were raised here and, unfortunately, it is precisely in times of crisis that special attention must be paid to safeguarding the rights of these groups. These are also the groups of people who, at their worst, may be the first to suffer from severe restrictions, those who really need, for example, the support of their relatives, which may become more difficult as a result of these restrictions, and it is therefore essential that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs evaluates the situation with the support of experts and also seeks to take account of these marginalized groups. There is a reason why people talk about marginalized groups. It is that, in many situations, if we go too quickly, without considering it, they are completely forgotten, and yet, in times of crisis, their human rights must also be taken care of — including those with disabilities, including the elderly — and it is therefore necessary to appreciate this rapid exercise of fundamental rights and the broadest possible efforts to ensure everyone's right to life and to adequate healthcare. I would therefore like to stress that, when we talked earlier about constitutional experts, they have, in these times, been very supportive of the work of Parliament, have been very flexible and quick, have responded very effectively to Parliament's information needs, and have made every effort to help make the best of this crisis, as quickly as possible. They have not acted as a brake but rather as a catalyst for these efforts, and they are to be commended for that. It is also worth pointing out that, although the government-opposition limits arise here in this Chamber, in an understandable manner and in accordance with the principles of parliamentaryism, it is in this decision-making on the validity of the Act on Emergency Response that we are all responsible for, the whole of Parliament is responsible. In these times, therefore, no Member of Parliament can take off the weighty responsibility for the leadership of this country as required by these exceptional circumstances. There is also weight in our words. If we stir up ideas that are not entirely true, if we stir up concerns that are not entirely true, then it will also have consequences. Therefore, we should carefully consider what is said in this Chamber and what we are creating for Finns. Now we really need that leadership from all of us. In terms of efficiency and the protection of fundamental rights in particular, it is essential to schedule and measure the measures correctly, and this is precisely what the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is assessing, and this is also the subject of a very comprehensive memorandum from the Government. This timeliness is important because we know that these restrictions have a price, we know that at some point the restrictions will have to stop, and if this is done too soon it will also be counterproductive. It is therefore necessary to consider and weigh precisely the right time, precisely the right extent and the right way, because only in this way will we be able to secure the fundamental rights of everyone, the right to life, the right to health care, the right to care for the right, and that is why we should value this consideration and consideration. In my view, it has also been seen in recent weeks that weighing and reasoning do not rule out speed and efficiency, but when doing so as closely as possible, with good cooperation, then we can combine efficiency and careful consideration and weighing. I therefore hope that these two will not be put against each other, but rather that the objective will be that we will do the best we can as quickly and effectively as possible, a careful analysis which will really take into account the most vulnerable groups that have been identified in the past. Really, we are all responsible for fulfilling this ideal now. You can't overemphasize it. We are now in charge of this country under exceptional circumstances, we are responsible for ensuring that people's rights are realised, and as we continue to do so with strong cooperation, we will certainly continue to find the best solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u22	Mr President! Since the measures referred to in Article 118 of the Emergency Act may significantly restrict freedom of movement, this means that, in principle, a little has already been left the country of Uusimaa elsewhere in Finland. Well, it has been known that we may have border fences between the provinces, and although Prime Minister Marin hoped that no corona would be taken away from the new country, it has happened that they have escaped who have been able to, and the rest may have been left out of necessity or obedience and some perhaps responsibility — all of this, even if the Prime Minister hoped that they would not leave here. Well, there used to be a saying that there's no life outside Ring Three, but you can say that now that the corona is gone from here. In view of the small village store in Iitin Vuolenkoski, sales have increased a lot, and it has been found that we have left here to run to the cottages — we do not know if it has been taken there with it. Many cottages have now come to Midsummer in advance — and now, though, it is much better than a normal Midsummer. I drive from that Päijät-Häme every day to the capital region and then I have to drive through these roadblocks. And as I have watched how much freight traffic and vans and builders and these are moving from there, it would be desirable if there were enough resources and people there to keep an eye on it so that they would not be able to watch and let cars go through when there was so much traffic — the trucks or the workers there would then not be able to stand there for a long time. Well, then it may also be that everyone goes through smoothly, nobody is checked, or it is the traffic. We have to get the resources to do this, but this normal job works here. Well, everyone knows that then the tolls will have these explaining people: I have that reason and I have this reason. If there are no sanctions for unnecessary spending, there will be plenty of them there, and they will also block this traffic a lot. We know how it has been said that, since we have come from the corona region, from Spain to Finland, people will be staying in the home quarantine. Well, they are told, and they promise at the border that ‘let’s stay, let’s stay’, but it’s only after they get to the home —senoise. It is said that‘you do not use the public, did you not go ‘,so it is That here comes this too, that then begin these explanations and try to go and cheat.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u23	Mr President! I too would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for its swift and swift action and for having here the committee's report. I am very much in favour of the closure of Uusimaa. Mr President! 16.1. THL’s expert: ‘There is no need for this in Finland to lose sleep. “ Yle. 24.1. The evening newspaper: “Shit power. “ 4.2.THL :‘Finnish tartseveal coronavirus — especially on ski holidays’. Yle. 4.3.General,THLMikaSalminen :‘Coronavirus is not stable as expected’. Mr President! On 24 January, I asked a written question: what is Finland prepared for in the prevention of the corona virus epidemic? Then they laughed at the question and said, ‘ Don’t spread fear, don’t panic, even though the worry was great. ’ I actively followed the foreign press and said that we must wake up and urgently. On 17 February, I received a reply, stating that ‘on the basis of the monitoring and analysis ofthe situation, there has been a change in the communication between citizens and public authorities, the development of material capacity,the increase inits own management capacity and the intensification of contacts between Yesterday, the Prime Minister said that preparations for the corona virus epidemic started in January. If this has been the case, and if this answer from Minister Kiuru is true, how is it possible that travelers could come directly from an airplane with public transportation to their homes carrying the virus? How is it possible that we're missing material? Our supply lockers have been opened. We're short of protective equipment, face masks. How is it possible that there has been a feeling here that there is no leadership? How is it possible to say that information has not passed through the Ministry? Mr President! The real leadership is in HUS. Today we heard that the HUS surgical hospital is opening 330 patient sites for corona patients. HUS also trains intensive care nurses. HUS is looking for nurses who are about to graduate. Today's updated information: come to work after a certain number of studies have been completed. Eight days ago, Siun sote worked in the front line: recruits nurses directly from training, study nurses to work and also pays them wages. It's really great that health care is one step ahead. Mr President! We have a very serious situation ahead of us. Companies, workers, all of us are suffering here. We're fighting time. Two and a half hours, and the borders to New Zealand are closed. It's not the time to be hindsight. It's time to look ahead. We have a huge time for reconstruction in the future. We do not even know how much this virus epidemic will affect the Finnish people. All we can do is follow those messages from the world. Mr President! I hope that the closure of Uusimaa will help to stop the spread of the virus. However, it is such a dangerous virus that we will only kill it once and for all when we have a vaccine for it, and it will take time. HUSin Lasse Lehtonen has said that until Christmas we will suffer for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u24	Mr President! As has already been mentioned here, today the latest calculation has come from Aalto University researchers, and it tells us that the intensive care facilities at the Helsinki and Uusimaa Hospital District can be filled in the next few weeks if people do not comply with the restrictions. We are taking drastic measures, such as closing schools, closing restaurants and now restricting the movement of all Uusimaa. One thing that has not been so much discussed during the corona is the safety of prisons. It is also of prime importance during the course of the corona. The spread of infections would cause major problems, which would affect the control of the units and the maintenance of safety. The central administration of the Criminal Sanctions Agency is instructed to suspend meetings of prisoners and their guests, prison leave permits and prison study and civil work permits temporarily in order to prevent the spread of the corona virus. Therefore, the unit leaders are currently allowed to apply these calls, which means that prisoners are still moving freely around Finland, engaged in civilian work, are allowed to test, and are transferred from closed departments to open institutions. Closed prisons also have places where diseases can easily spread, such as gyms and sports halls. These aren't closed. According to the police, wanted persons who may be corona patients are also being brought into prisons. Now all New Zealanders must do everything in their power to avoid contact.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u25	Mr President! Limiting freedom of movement within Finland is an unprecedented measure and also causes deep criticism and concern among Finns. Unfortunately, people are good at inventing different reasons why restrictions on movement should not apply to themselves. In fact, selfishness should now be put in the background and everyone should be flexible. Even now, coronavirus spreads out uncontrollably, and before long, a significant proportion of the sufferers will also need treatment. The fact that the treatment capacity of each hospital district has been calculated on the basis of permanent residents should now be clearly communicated to Finns, not visitors such as cottage tourists. Perhaps a stronger message would change people's ideas and attitudes toward the corona virus epidemic. The government's information policy should now also be clearer. If you try to cross the Uusimaa border without a valid and necessary reason, it will be sanctioned. When the Minister's mouth is told that sanctions are only a last resort, it sends out the wrong message. Finland emphasises individual freedoms and defends them to the very last. In this way, however, the special circumstances should emphasise the individual’s responsibilities and responsibilities towards himself and others. Every non-essential movement in or above all out of one's own home is a high risk. The isolation of Uusimaa is far too late, and the delay of the government makes the situation worse every day. It is understandable that things have to be done in a certain order, because we are a democratic country, but there should be some flexibility in the system in such a situation. Clearly, the Act of Preparedness does not work completely in the event of a crisis, and in order to reform it, an in-depth review will have to be carried out after we have overcome the corona crisis. Mr President! Finns are mainly a obedient people who hold as much in difficult situations. However, there are people in the crowd who put their own needs ahead of the common or neighbor’s interests even in a crisis situation. That is why there is a need for clear restrictions and regulations and, above all, for clear information, and no slackening at all, which wateres down the whole purpose of the measures to slow down the spread of the corona virus in order to sustain our health-care capacity. Without further discussion, let me say that we are now rapidly closing the borders of Uusimaa, and I hope that the government will prepare itself for the next restrictions, which are urgently needed now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u26	Mr President! The Government Decree under discussion introduces Article 118 of the Emergency Act, which confers on the Government the power to restrict the movement of people by means of an implementing regulation, in this case in Uusimaa. This restriction is, after all, a very severe restriction on the fundamental rights of people. Article 9 of our Constitution assumes that, in principle, everyone has the right to move within Finland and reside wherever he wishes in Finland. And the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union also assumes that we also have freedom of movement within Europe and in each country where we legally reside. However, this protects the right of citizens to health and to life and, in that sense, this has also been regarded in the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as a necessary restriction this time. And I personally think that when a parliament is adopting such a decision now, so that such a restriction can be introduced, then this is a pretty strong message for the citizens. This is a strong signal that the situation is now extremely serious when it comes to dealing with such an important right as people's right to move. That is why I think that, in communication, it would be good for our decision-makers to draw attention to the fact that, at least in the midst of such serious messages, we would not, in a way, give the impression that we have big contradictions here about this great line that has been made. On the basis of these speeches, I have noticed what has been used, that the House is reasonably unanimous that the situation is serious, that the preparedness law must be introduced, and that these limitations, including the details, have been truly monolithic. I therefore think that, in this situation in particular, we should all give our support to the decision-makers for the measures that are being taken right now to deal with this crisis, namely our government and our ministers, who are in the front line to deal with this. And the best support is that we are giving the right information here not only to the public, but also to reassure ourselves that, although in such a difficult situation, and even if mistakes are made when people are dealing with them, and even if our preparedness law is not the best way to deal with this situation, the public can certainly count on the decision-makers who deal with these issues to do their best to put this crisis out of the way as quickly as possible and to reach normal conditions. That is why I do not think it is time, as we did, artificially to seek any challenge, but to go and support the actions that are now being taken together. Of course, there is always a place for such pertinent criticisms and questions and that belongs to the opposition, but I would hope that, in such a difficult situation, we can give a common signal of a big picture that we are now working together to overcome the crisis. The fact that Finland, our country of origin, will get through this as soon as possible and take us to the reconstruction phase is our common task. With such a message, I want to see something as difficult as a restriction of movement here to be in favour. I note that this is unfortunately such a serious situation that we also have to limit such rights, but this has now been considered necessary. However, the mitigating point is that this is a reasonably short period of time, but the time will tell whether or not it will have to be extended — hopefully not.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u27	Mr President! We are dealing with a Government decree, the adoption of which means that the borders of Uusimaa will be closed for a limited period of time. We are seriously restricting the fundamental rights of people, the right to move. Such a decision cannot be taken lightly. It is essential that the matter be carefully examined in Parliament, and this work has been carried out by the Constitutional Committee under a great deal of time pressure. Thank you to the committee for this work. The government has considered it necessary to isolate From the rest of the country of Uusimaa to prevent the spread of the corona virus. The basis for this is the strongest of fundamental rights, the right to life. Since the restriction interferes with the fundamental right to freedom of movement, the government has had to justify its necessity completely. It is important that the situation picture and the knowledge base on which the decision is based are openly assessed by all. Isolation of Uusimaa from the rest of Finland is justified in order to have intensive care capacity in different parts of Finland. The aim is to stop and control the spread of the disease. By closing the borders of Uusimaa, we will therefore protect the rest of Finland. The legitimate concern expressed in this Chamber is also whether in Uusimaa intensive care facilities will be sufficient if the borders of the province are closed and the virus continues to spread. Therefore, all the means put in place are needed to prevent the spread and transmission of the disease. The decision to close restaurants, cafes and bars must be put into effect as soon as possible. Mr President! Three of the four largest cities in Finland are located in Uusimaa. The epidemic and its restrictive measures hit the major cities and their economies the hardest. Cities will therefore need support to overcome this crisis. Restricting mobility is a drastic measure. I really would have liked the recommendations to have been sufficient. For a few weeks now, the government has strongly recommended restricting mobility. When recommendations have not allowed people to stay in their homes, it is considered necessary to legislate. It is important that the implementing regulation on restrictions on movement should take into account human aspects and ensure the rights of the child and the situation of the families where some of the family members live in Uusimaa and some outside Uusimaa. Many also have concerns about elderly relatives who live on the wrong side of the border. We need to find human and clear solutions and guidelines for these situations. I also understand that many people feel that they cannot travel to a cottage where they feel they can live safely in isolation while enjoying nature and the beginning of spring. In this situation, we all need a shared responsibility to slow down and even prevent the spread of the virus. We now need confidence that these measures are necessary in order to save lives together. This requires active communication to the public on the basis of the reasons for these dire decisions and constant monitoring of the effectiveness and effectiveness of these actions and readiness to react in the event of a change in the situation. Mr President! Ultimately, this virus is won not by legislation but by the fact that every Finn adheres to the restrictions and recommendations that have been made. That's the only way we can contain the virus, put an end to abnormal conditions, and move on with normal life as soon as possible. At the same time, it is important for all of us to take care of ourselves and the people who are close to us and to create hope that we will also get through this together. The isolation of Uusimaa is now decided for a period of three weeks. I very much hope that the restrictive measures taken by the government as a whole will prove effective and that the restrictions on movement will remain as short as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u28	Mr President! Thank you very much to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to the chairman, to the Members for their endurance and for their consistent work. The closure of Uusimaa is an exceptional solution, indeed exceptional. Of course, it is because, as many have said here, life is to be protected. Since the protection of life is even more important than my big words, I will be very brief. The country with the most pandemic now needs all the support. Of course, isolation in itself does not help the situation in Uusimaa. Therefore, in Uusimaa, we must continue to fight against the virus by all means and with all support. Furthermore, isolation does not mean that the rest of Finland is now safe. It is therefore necessary to closely monitor in real time what is happening outside Uusimaa. It must also be said out loud that, quite soon, we can be in a situation where these measures are not enough either. Indeed, these times have shown that tomorrow cannot be known and tomorrow cannot be seen. Although there have been some signs of hindsight in this debate, I really hope that we can maintain unity. In this situation, if any, we need both opposition and government. We have to be on the same team, not on different teams. It would not be very wise to isolate one another as well. The clock is ticking, and the action taken by the responsible MP at this point is that I will not prolong this moment any further. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u29	Ärade Herr Talman! Grundlagsutskottet har i dag tags standing till statsrådets förordning om att ätta i kraft beredskapslagens 118 § som bestammer om möjligheterna att införa begränsningar i rörelsefriheten, en fundamental grundlagsenlig ragtaghet. Grundlagsutskottet har gjort en grundlig behandling sedan klonkan 8.30 i Morse för att få det klart i dag. Utskottet har hört ett stort antal sakkunniga effectsom åtgärden är exceptionell och påverkar och begränsar en viktig grundlagsenlig rättighet, nämligen fri rörlighet. Nu är det också dock en exceptionell tid i vår history då undantagstillstånd är uutlyst av statsrådet och republikens president. Grundlagsutskottet föreslår därför enhälligt att förordningen får träda i kraft för att trygga bland you provide TVå andra grundlagsenliga ragtigheter: rautten till liv och rätten till social trygghet. Åtgärden att begränsa den fria rörligheten till och från landskapet Nyland görs förs för att förhindra att spridningen av coronaviruset ska gå så snabbt att den äventyrar liv och sjukgårdssystemet. I Nyland finns per capita dubbelt fler bekräftade fall av coronavirus än i övriga Finland. Denna exceptionella åtgård att begränsa den fria rörligheten till och från Nyland är inget som grundlagsutskottet tarlt på, men det görs för att skydda liv. Denna förordning, begränsningen i rörligheten, är i kraft till den 19 april. Regeringen, statsrådet, kommer annu samanträda i kväll innan begränsningen träder i kraft. Regeringen kommer också godkänna en förordning som gäller tillampningen som också kommer slå fast bland you give viika resor som ändå undantagsvis kommer att tillåtas till och från Nyland om särskilda anledningar och skäl finns för det. Grundlagsutskottet kommer enligt lag göra en effectergranskning också av den förordningen. Den görs vecka. Irade the Talman! Detta är en exceptionell åtgård. Att begränsa den fria rörligheten i Finland har inte gjorts sedan kriget. Men så är också det krisläge Finland och världen befinner sig i exceptionellt med rådande coronapandemi. Med de åtgärder som görs och det starka samhälle som Finland är är jag ändå helt säker på att vi kommer ta oss igenom också denna trövning.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u30	Mr President! We are dealing here with the Government decree on the introduction of the powers provided for in Article 118 of the Emergency Act. I would also like, for my part, to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the speedy and speedy work you have done in this haste. More than 1000 corona infections have been detected in Finland, of which 75 per cent are in Uusimaa, and seven people have already died. The measures to restrict Uusimaa aim to slow down the progression of the epidemic to other parts of Finland and at the same time secure the treatment capacity in Uusimaa so that it is sufficient to meet the needs of the population of Uusimaa and, at the same time, the intensive care capacity. But if you're here There are no other restrictions within Uusimaa, so it has been calculated that the capacity for intensive care is not enough, even though more staff are constantly being trained and efforts are being made to increase these intensive care facilities. In other words, it is important that restaurants, pubs close their doors and joint gatherings are restricted. It is also important to control the leakage from the airport and ports from foreign corona infections. Now that Uusimaa will be isolated and, at the same time, the infections within Uusimaa will grow — although, of course, we must continue to slow down and try to stop these transmission chains, but inevitably they will continue to grow — this will also pose a particular challenge for people living in risk groups here. There are many of them, there are elderly people, but there are also cancerous people or people with defensive drugs, people with disabilities, and it is important that we continue to minimize their risk of infection. Although it is a recommendation to stay at home, many people still have to go to public places themselves and to hospitals because of their basic illnesses, to visit the clinic, or to go to hospital for another reason. Hygiene guidance and risk minimisation are key to preventing these people from becoming infected, and national guidelines are really important. For example, if a person undergoing cancer treatment receives a corona infection, the risk of death from the disease is many times greater. It is also our responsibility to protect them. There are also some 75,000 home care clients at risk in Finland. Municipalities should have uniform guidelines for the care of people of these risk groups at national level. Care providers should be clear and know how to treat home care customers safely. Especially challenging is the fact that many nurses can visit one elderly person during the day, different nurses, up to 60 different nurses a month. It should be possible to reduce the number of these different people so that only certain nurses visit certain people, and for this too there is a need for national guidance — otherwise it will not happen in the municipalities. I would also like to highlight children's rights, families and foster care. We must take care of them in an exceptional situation, and when mobility is restricted, we must also remember the rights of children and their need to see their own parents and other rights of access which they are legally entitled to. There is also a need for uniform social guidelines on how to prevent corona infections, as is the case with many other common institutions. Limiting mobility is a tough step because it interferes with fundamental human rights. The right to life is also a fundamental right, so when mobility is restricted, there must be good reasons for it. Within the limits, fair and equal treatment of people is important. Now it's there on April 19th. Until then, but if this were to continue for longer, it is very important then to assess how this would affect the various groups and their rights. It is important that the government regularly communicates to citizens and Parliament what is happening, what is coming, what the epidemic looks like, what are the rates of infection, how much has been tested in Uusimaa and how much has been tested elsewhere in Finland and how much of them have been found positive, and what is the government's scenario for the future – we have to be one step ahead. There have been quite a few steps behind, but this is the last point now to correct it from the step and see more forward. We must now also pay attention to our staff that they have enough protective equipment, that they are able — hard work — to work well-being, to lead. If we do not have that staff, we will not be able to deal with sick people either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u31	Mr President! Finland is a civilized country in which everyone, even the weakest one, is taken care of. Our most important task is to protect a unique and valuable life. In order to protect the right to life and health, we are now restricting the right of movement when we introduce Section 118 of the Emergency Act. Finland is the rule of law in which, according to fundamental rights and human rights, we also operate under exceptional circumstances. They want to stop the disease from Uusimaa to the rest of Finland, so that the capacity of our health care system, especially intensive care, is sufficient. In order to treat people who are otherwise seriously ill, the progression of the disease must also be stopped within Uusimaa. When we adopt this implementing regulation, the government will adopt an implementing regulation today. I hope that this restriction will take due account of work, livelihoods, studies, children's right of access, social confidence and the danger of the death of loved ones, for example, that a loved one will be able to say good-bye to his dying loved ones — in the weeks to come there will also be a non-corona death. The Parliament has been flexible in its dealings with abnormal circumstances. Thank you very much to our colleagues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and to our chairman, Mr Ojala-Niemelä, for his good cooperation. Thank you to the Government and the authorities for their work in the fight against the corona virus. Let's give them all our support. Let's be the decision-makers in one set. Reform the preparedness law on the basis of these experiences. The shared responsibility will continue for a long time after this crisis. It's time for reconstruction. Then all of us will be needed and our responsibility properly measured.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u32	Mr President! We are dealing with an exceptionally strong measure in this Chamber today, namely the Government decree on the introduction of the powers provided for in Article 118 of the Emergency Act. The decision to remain in force gives the Government powers to restrict movement within the territory of the Province of Uusimaa. As colleagues have said before, this is a very exceptional measure and a restriction on the fundamental rights of people with regard to freedom of movement. The most important thing, however, is the right to life, the fact that we are doing everything we can to safeguard human health and human lives, and there has been a complete consensus in this Chamber today that this should be done. Mr. Speaker! We know that cases of communicable diseases in the case of coronavirus are currently very concentrated in Uusimaa and, in fact, the Government's explanatory memorandum points out that the risk of a significant spread of infections from New Zealand to other parts of Finland through non-essential travel is high. In my opinion, the Government has made a very thorough statement about the reasons why from Uusimaa to the rest of Finland and again from the rest of the country. Restrictions on travel to the new country are justified. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers the introduction of restrictions on freedom of movement to be acceptable in its own right and, in the light of the report received by the committee, it is also necessary. I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and its chairman for their thorough, good and rapid work on the use of this Chamber. Mr. Speaker! In fact, none of us will know this evening when we are taking this decision whether these measures are sufficient. Unavoidably, this is not the case. This is about combating a virus that has spread globally, which is a major threat to the health and lives of Finns. It may well be that we will still have to deal with some serious action after tonight. However, the policy chosen by Finland to combat the virus is correct and justified. Sweden has chosen another way. But examples from the world show us that significant and robust measures taken in good time and prevention will produce results that can prevent the spread of the virus. It is certainly justified that we also act in this way in Finland. Mr. Speaker! While, of course, we all bear the responsibility for the decisions taken in this Chamber today, the operational responsibility for dealing with this crisis rests with the government of this country, and I just want to give the government a chance to say that it is better to do more and sooner than less and too late. I hope that the government will do everything in its power to overcome this crisis, and it is quite clear that the Finnish Parliament, this Chamber, fully supports the work done by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u33	Mr President! The Government will introduce the Act on Emergency Response and Restraint in the Uusimaa region, which will probably lead today to the isolation of Uusimaa by the Government's implementing decree. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has considered that this adoption regulation should remain in force. The committee has considered the introduction of restrictions on freedom of movement to be acceptable and necessary. The movement of Finns in our country has not been restricted since the war. This is a very tough move. There is also a very serious threat: the Corona virus epidemic is a threat to people's lives and health. If the virus gets out of control, intensive care will run out and some people will be left out of treatment. That is what has happened in Europe, in Lombardia, Italy and Spain. This must not happen in Finland, not in Uusimaa or in other provinces. Every Finnish citizen has the right to life guaranteed by the Constitution. That is why, a week ago, I have supported the introduction of mobility restrictions in Uusimaa, my own constituency, although I know that this will also cause harm to the neo-Americans. The Corona virus epidemic is longer than the rest of the country in Uusimaa. According to today's data, more than 60 per cent of cases of infection have been detected in Finland in the hospital district of Helsinki and Uusimaa. There are several municipalities in different parts of Uusimaa with a relatively high incidence. This is not only a problem for the three major cities in the capital region, but also a high incidence in Kauniainen, Raasepori, Lohja and Siuntio, among others, and in my municipality of residence in Sipoo. Sipoo has today published information that there are about thirty confirmed infections in the municipality. Compared to the population, it is a great deal. In fact, as far as the population is concerned, it is more than in Helsinki, for example. Hidden Cases There are likely to be far more cases in Uusimaa than in verified cases and also in other municipalities than they have been observed. Mr President! As the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has pointed out, the restrictions proposed by the government on freedom of movement can be regarded as a very fundamental interference in fundamental rights, and this restriction is now directed specifically at 1.7 million neo-mans. I would like to raise two points about the report. First of all, the committee has pointed out that the government should have made a broader statement on the inadequacy of other means available. In addition, the committee has pointed out that, in the event of a change in the epidemic situation, there is no longer any legal basis for the restriction of movement, no change in the restriction or repeal of the regulation. These are important comments. Indeed, the virus epidemic can be controlled by means of decisive means, not just by means of restrictions on masses, on the basis of international examples. The epidemic situation in Uusimaa is as serious as it is because it has become so. The airport's corona virus port has been open to this day, although, as has been pointed out earlier here, the Act on communicable diseases requires action by the authorities and also allows powers to intervene in the risk of an epidemic. And the virus is still spreading because of cases in Uusimaa, because there is not enough testing. Mr President! Many European countries have changed their strategy to contain the corona virus epidemic. The World Health Organization (WHO) has required aggressive testing by states to overcome the pandemic. This testing strategy has already been successfully applied by several countries. I don't want Uusimaa to end up in chaos like Italy's Lombardia. I want the government to take the path of aggressive testing of South Korea and Singapore so that the epidemic can also be overcome in Uusimaa. In Germany, most recently, it has been understood to reverse the course. The German Minister for the Interior has today declared his support for the suppression of the epidemic rather than the slowing down of the epidemic. Now Germany is increasing its testing capacity rapidly and by the end of April it will try to carry out tests up to 200,000 a day. Relative to the population in Finland, this would mean 13300 tests a day. Finland’s declared goal is now only 2,300 tests a day. I'm sure the government can do better than this. In Germany it was understood that it would have been simply wrong to allow this even deadly virus to spread to the majority of people. A strategy based on aggressive testing has also made it possible to dismantle restrictions. In South Korea, it has been possible to dismantle restrictions by region through testing. That is what Germany is now determined to do. Finland, too, should aggressively test further to trace infections and implement adequate individual quarantine measures to limit the spread of the virus. This is particularly important in Uusimaa. In this way, restrictive measures can also be dismantled in due course. Testing is essential. Mr President! I want to say this serious message to the government: The virus must not be left to spread in Uusimaa, nor The new country may be left without sufficient medical resources and the necessary additional facilities for intensive care. I would remind you that the number of intensive care facilities is similar across Finland in proportion to the population. HUS therefore has no more intensive care facilities per person than in other erva areas. The Government is responsible for the management of Finland under these exceptional circumstances. The government is given extraordinary power. The government also has in its hands the potential to cope with this situation. It is in the hands of the government how quickly Finland gets out of this epidemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u34	Mr President! The Korona virus is rampant in the world, and it has also raged in Finland in such a way that we live under very special exceptional circumstances, so serious that the preparedness law has already been introduced, and so now we are going to take its Article 118, which means in concrete terms restricting movement. It is a very serious and big step when we restrict the free movement of people in Finland too, but it is really necessary to do so. The Uusimaa is being restricted, the borders are now being closed. Why, then, is it necessary to do so? That is what we said in the Constitutional Committee on the basis of consultations. We currently have over 1,000 diagnosed corona infection patients in Finland. 1041 is the figure I have, of which there are more than 100, more than 10 per cent. Three-quarters of those in hospital care are in Uusimaa and two-thirds of those in intensive care are in Uusimaa. Out of seven patients who died in Finland There are six of them on the new land. Why? The country of Uusimaa is in this situation, and more so if we think about why Uusimaa is the region that needs to be restricted in the future, and it is precisely cross-border mobility that needs to be restricted? There are 1.7 million people living in Uusimaa, the majority of Finns. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, it has been estimated that up to 80% of the population, perhaps more, is infected. About 15% of cases are serious and 5% critical. It is estimated that 15 percent of the sick need hospitalization, and it has also been found that a significant proportion, up to a third, of those admitted to the hospital need intensive care after a few days. And still, if we think that even if we have all the good equipment, know-how and medication in use, the severe respiratory failure and multi-organ damage that intensive care is being treated are so serious that it has been said that the mortality rate of patients with respiratory failure in intensive care is as high as 30%. In other words, when we think about these figures, what everyone needs to do is now to make every effort to limit the spread of this epidemic, not just to limit or limit it, but to try to kill this corona virus. Although we have been told many times by experts that it is not possible to stop or kill it, I would say that it is not worth believing, but that the work we have to do is precisely not just to limit, to try to limit the virus, but to try to kill this corona virus. It is good to remember that although elderly people are, of course, at particular risk, this coronavirus infection is not only dangerous to the elderly, but younger people, too, who have a chronic disease — cardiovascular disease, diabetes, for example, or asthma — despite being in good health, are also at great risk. And with regard to asthma, I have many times pointed out that in Finland more than 10 per cent of people aged 30 or over have asthma, and even if it is well balanced, they are all at risk when it comes to getting a coronavirus infection. The borders of Uusimaa will be closed, movement will be monitored, and that will be necessary. But, as has been the case here many times, the airport and the traffic there, which has unfortunately been the leaking gate, hopefully will also be brought to an appropriate level in such a way that there will be no vectors or infected people, but that they will be carrying out the quarantine for two weeks, as the recommendation has been a long time ago. But I would also like the management of the hospital districts, and now especially the hospital district of Helsinki and Uusimaa, to see that medical staff would not come to work without it for two weeks of quarantine or testing. It is inconceivable that when we in this house consider these restrictive measures to eliminate the spread of infection, we have continued to have healthcare staff from both Spain and remote sites directly to the hospital for patient work. I do not know which gate has leaked here, but I would really like to see this addressed in hospitals. Aggressive testing, testing and testing, according to WHO guidelines, has been important throughout this infection, and I would really like to see, as Mr Vestman has pointed out here, that Finland would take on much more aggressive testing because it is needed. And while it is important to look at all the steps when medicines are introduced, we still have medicines that have had good results in the world to alleviate the symptoms of coronavirus infection or to stop the spread of the virus, and I would like to see these medications introduced at a low threshold in Finland as well. Each one of us is needed, and I wish that, while each one of us has challenges and needs, we could think, ‘ What can I do for others? ’ If everyone spent a little time thinking about what I can do for someone else, I believe that we will overcome this problem, the challenge. Human possibilities are limited, but I think that all the wisdom and strength we can have must be used to combat the corona virus. And as I've said, the help,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u35	Mr President! Uusimaa is the most populous and vibrant province in Finland. In Uusimaa, the Korona virus has spread at an entirely different rate than elsewhere, in less populated Finland. Limiting mobility is a tough measure, but I believe that, in this situation, it is necessary to close Uusimaa. The infection situation is still good in many regions and the chances of preventing the spread of the virus are much better than in Uusimaa. Last weekend there was even an international migration towards the north. The fives and fours were congested, and I got a message from my own county that there's been a 40 on Kajaani when they're in traffic so much. Of course, the purpose of humans was not to spread the virus, but that was how many northern residents felt. Since a person who feels healthy can also spread the virus, it is for all of us to stay in familiar circles, and now one circle closes here in Uusimaa. The next big challenge is already in our hands if Finnish citizens living abroad return to their country of origin. Airports and borders must now have good guidelines on how to act, and this has already been done. We need to quarantine the returnees without having time to contact the others. Mr President! We are fortunate that no case of infectious disease has yet been identified in Kainuu, but, Mr President, I am very concerned about the catalyst people in Kainuu. 72,000 people in the province of Kainuu, of which over 14,000 are over 70 years old, and now that these Passover holidays are coming, somehow it feels at this point when you look at this evolution of the situation picture that there is a need to close the Cainu border at some point. Mr President! I wish the Bureau and the government and all of us representatives the strength in this decision-making in times of difficulty and also the patience of the Finnish people in this time of crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u36	Mr President! We're living in a situation we didn't think we'd end up in. The global pandemic is often present in crisis scenarios, but it is still difficult to fully prepare for the coming of the crisis. It is important that our legislation protects fundamental and human rights. There is now an accumulation of learning for everyone, and it will allow us to better prepare for both security of supply and legislation in the future. Our infectious disease law works well in an unlimited case. Now, for the sake of scale, we have to resort once again to the introduction of the provisions of the Emergency Act. Freedom of movement is a fundamental right. Its limitations are extremely exceptional and must not be lightly applied. In exceptional circumstances, the authorities may only be authorised to exercise powers which are necessary and proportionate in order to achieve the purpose set out in Article 1 of the Emergency Act. This is aimed at protecting the population, safeguarding its livelihood and the economy of the country and maintaining the legal order, fundamental rights and human rights. The epidemiological and medical situation picture and forecast for the future is now the one on which the proportionality and necessity of the restrictions have been considered first and foremost. The corona virus spreads as a droplet infection between humans. Without protection, it's forecast that 80 percent will be infected. 15% are seriously ill, 5% are critically ill. The need for intensive care for critically ill people is much longer than usual, even for three weeks. According to the latest estimates by THL, the number of intensive care facilities and staff in our country is barely sufficient if the disease is progressing in a controlled and differentiated manner in different regions. From the sad examples of European countries, we see that the disease has pushed many countries to the limit of health care and, in particular, hospital care. The mobility restriction is based on situational data on coronavirus infections in the Uusimaa region. There are twice as many confirmed infections as in the rest of Finland. It is therefore important to limit traffic from and to the Uusimaa region. In this way, we can at least try to influence the fact that we are not faced with a situation such as that in Italy or Spain where doctors are forced to choose who is being given intensive care. The right to life is the most important of fundamental rights. In order to defend this, other important rights will now have to be limited for some time. I hope people understand the gravity of the situation. Through our own actions, we can contribute to the way out of the crisis. On the basis of the introduction of Article 118 of the Act on Preparedness, the right to reside and move in a specific place or region may be temporarily prohibited or restricted if it is necessary to prevent a serious risk to human life or health. Now the purpose of the government proposal is to isolate Uusimaa to reduce infection from the rest of the country, i.e. to prevent movement from Uusimaa and Uusimaa. According to the Government, it is clear that slowing the epidemic by restricting movement will save lives in Finland. The measure is assessed as necessary and proportionate. There are no other equally effective ways of slowing down infection. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs should not go against the requirement of proportionality. The duration is now defined as a period of approximately three weeks until 19 April. It is possible to decommission more quickly if the disease situation allows this. It is essential that the underlying information is shared openly both to Parliament and to others. With open, up-to-date information sharing, we maintain public confidence, support for the work of the authorities, the credibility of political decision-making and the effectiveness of opposition-government cooperation. I also hope that the opposition will remain aware of this. Mr President! In addition to health effects, it is important to carry out an analysis of the wider impact of these restrictions on society. None of us are clairvoyant, but it is important to think about indicators and milestones when we reach the point where we can also take action. The correct duration and timing of actions are important for both human lives and the carrying capacity of the economy. Of course, the restrictions on mobility also raise concerns and questions about people's different life situations. Due to the proportionality of regulation, mobility for essential reasons must be taken into account. Among these, the Government has already raised the right to visit the child, including the activities of the authorities, the pursuit of work and the livelihood. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also takes into account studies. In order for the period of derogation and restrictions on movement to run smoothly, we need clear guidance for the authorities, for them as a backrest and for the protection of every equal treatment. Here the Committee on Constitutional Affairs pays particular attention to respect for fundamental rights and human rights, the principle of proportionality, the principle of least disadvantage and the purpose of exercising powers. Thank you to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the experts for their careful and swift work on this report. Following the decision of the Parliament that the Government decree on the introduction of the powers provided for in Article 118 of the Emergency Act should not be repealed, the Government may adopt a regulation on its application. I hope that together we will combat the spread of the virus in both Uusimaa and the rest of Finland, we will significantly increase testing, as several representatives have already wanted, train nurses, acquire more protective equipment and stay at home close to each other with support and understanding at a difficult time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u37	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Ojala-Niemelä, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for the smooth presentation of matters in Parliament, but especially in the media to the public. The Constitution guarantees freedom of movement, protection of private life, freedom of religion and conscience, freedom of expression, election and participation and many other rights. These freedoms are restricted in more than half of the countries of the world. We temporarily waive freedom of movement in Finland. In many countries, all rights have been permanently waived. We'll get through this together, Tillsammans.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u38	Mr President! I would also like to personally thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, in particular, the chairman of the committee, Mr Ojala-Niemela, who respects democracy and continues to sit at this hour of the evening in this Chamber. I know you've had a long day, and I appreciate this very much. Mr President! The purpose of this restriction is to stop the spread of the disease and, in particular, to ensure the capacity of our health care. We have chosen a line in Finland and the government has chosen a line that wants to protect human life, and I think it is particularly important to stress this, because it is not an obvious choice when you look at what is happening in the world at the moment. Mr President! About the new country, I'd like to say a few words. In the early stages of the spread of infection, Uusimaa is now taking on the most severe attacks. The restrictive measures now decided have led to layoffs of more than 145,000 people in Uusimaa. So these attacks have been both health and economic for New Zealand at the moment, and I hope that the government will take these issues into account and provide all the support and all the resources the government has to offer to New Zealand to bring this disease to a halt. Mr President! I myself am used to thinking that when a serious crisis is at stake or there is a serious decision-making place for myself, I turn to the more experienced and listen to advice from them, and I think that this idea also fits into this moment, this world situation. I would therefore like to finish by quoting the late President Mauno Koivisto and his last interview, because I believe that it sends a very important message to us decision-makers in this Chamber. The President said this: ‘In general life,it is wise to trust that everything is going well. It's usually worth it, even if you don't even believe it. For it has often happened that the threat images begin to materialise precisely because they are prepared.”
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u39	Mr President, ärade talman! Här har i dag från oppositionnens håll med stor hets framförts kritik mot vår grundlag och vår beredskapslag eftersom känslan av att inte kunna handla tillräckligt snabbt för att stoppa spridningen av corona är överhängande. Denna känsla förstår jag, men jag vidhåller att vår lagstiftning fungerar utmärkt. Riksdagens grundlagsutskott har under en dags tid granskat regeringens förordning, som innebär en allvarlig begränsning av våra grundläggande friheter, rörelsefrihten. Mr Grundlagsutskottet hevisar i sitt betankande till 9 § 1 Mom. i Finlands grundlag, till europeiska pineskorättskonventtionen och till EU-grundstadgan för att särskilt lyfta fram hur stark räkten är att få röra sig fritt i sitt eget land. Utskottet säger att rörelsefriheten är en del av Människans självbestämmanderätt. Med detta som grund är det inte mer rätt och riktigt att utskottet med stöd av de basta grundrättighetsexperternas och utskottsrådets djupa insikter noggrant granskar de grunder som den process regeringen basear sitt beslut på. Att beredskapslagen förutsätter detta är inget misstag. Det är inte meningen att man ska kunna ingripa, begränsa eller göra undantag från våra viktigaste mänskliga rättigheter lattata än så rauta. Och grundlagsutskottet har gjort sit arbete snabbt i alla fall. Det är också viktigt att framföra att utskottet i sitt betankande nu lyfter fram att de raus begränsningarna i rörelsefriheten måste upphura så snart förutsättningarna för beslutt Saknas. Utskottet lyfter aven alldeles särskilt fram att polisen i verkstalligheten av begränsningarna ju leds av 1 kap. Articles 2 to 5 i polislagen med stadgar om respekt för grundläggande ragtigheter och mänskliga rättigheter, proportionalitetsprinten, principen om minsta möjliga olägenhet och att polisen i första hand ska övervaka begränsningarna i röresefrheten med råd, uppmaningar och befallningar.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u40	Mr President! Finally, on my own behalf and on behalf of the committee, I would also like to thank the members of the committee, the committee advisers and experts in particular. This was a long day, and their contribution was important in moving this issue forward. There was one question here as to why the government did not adopt this regulation as a matter of urgency. The Government therefore did not give urgency to bypassing the Parliament as a decision-maker. If an urgent regulation were to be adopted, then it would only have come to us for an ex post check. Instead, we have now spent all day early in the morning on this matter at night. This highlights the role of Parliament as the highest decision-maker in our society — and I would like to thank you very much for that. This was important because it was a fundamental issue of tackling fundamental rights. Then one might ask why it was necessary to hold to the technicalities. There was a slight beauty flaw in this matter, but of course this is the case that when the disease situation is serious, you have to be able to react quickly. The role of the Constitutional Committee is to do so in a legally sustainable manner. In other words, our work must also be able to withstand a critical examination tomorrow that these things went right. Finally, I would like to join Mrs Mere in hoping that the Emergency Act will need to be looked at after that. It has proved in this process that we urgently need to get this work under way. - Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u41	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 7/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should remain in force or whether it should be partially or totally repealed and whether it will be in force for a fixed or shorter period.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u42	Mr President! I present this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Constitutional Committee has been assessed by a Government decree on the introduction of the powers provided for in Article 95(2) of the Emergency Act and on the application of Articles 96 to 103. The Regulation provides for the powers to be imposed under the exceptional circumstances referred to in Article 3(5) of the Emergency Act. The regulation to be assessed is provided for under Section 95(2) of the Emergency Act. The provisions of the Emergency Act form the basis for the adoption regulation to be assessed. In accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution and Article 6 of the Emergency Act, such regulations on the introduction of the powers of the Emergency Act must be referred immediately to Parliament. Parliament shall decide whether the regulation may remain in force or whether it shall be partially or totally repealed and whether it shall remain in force for a fixed period of time or for a shorter period. According to Article 95(2) of the Emergency Act, the obligation for health care staff to carry out work can be applied throughout the whole territory of the State, according to Article 2 of the Decree on Adoption. If the obligation to work is applied, the provisions of Articles 96 to 103 of the Emergency Act shall also apply. According to the Act on the Adoption of the Emergency Act of 17 March 1920, the obligation of health care personnel under Section 95(2) of the Emergency Act could have been applied throughout the national territory. When assessing the regulation, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that the obligation to work is subject to a package of provisions in Chapter 14 of the Emergency Act. The committee considered it necessary to protect the status and rights of the worker as provided for in Chapter 14 of the Emergency Act or other provisions of an equivalent level. In the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where the powers of Chapter 14 had not been explicitly introduced and other applicable legislation had not been clarified, Article 5 of the Regulation on the introduction of the Constitutional Treaty had to be repealed. The Government annulled Article 5 by decree of the Government of 19 March 1920. According to the committee, it is possible to provide for the introduction of an obligation to work if, at the same time, other rules on the status and rights of the person liable to work in Chapter 14 are to be applied or otherwise the legal arrangements are to be made for the organisation of these matters. The current regulation concerns the proper application of Articles 96 to 103 of the Emergency Act, not only of Article 95(2) of the Emergency Act, but also of Article 14 of the Emergency Act relating to the obligation to work. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses the importance of the knowledge base on which the restrictions are based and which is necessary to assess them. However, in view of the fact that the obligation to work constitutes a very substantial interference in personal freedom and also in the rights guaranteed by Article 18 of the Constitution, the need for regulation and the inadequacy of other means available should have been further explained in the explanatory memorandum to the Regulation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also stresses the importance of Parliament's rights to information and the need for the committee to have all relevant information properly presented. The committee has had to make use of the rights of information under Article 47 of the Constitution in order to obtain a report which the committee felt should have made available on its own initiative. The Committee feels that the Government should pay particular attention to this issue. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the Government decree should not be repealed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u43	Mr President! Thank you to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the work that has also been done on this regulation. Regulation on the obligation to work aims to ensure the functioning of the health system. The introduction of regulation is therefore necessary. Since the Regulation would only be in force until 13.4. and since the obligation to work is a last resort, for example in relation to the voluntary recruitment of additional staff and the pooling of resources for emergency services, regulation must also be considered proportionate and, in the event of a change in the situation picture, the Regulation also needs to be amended or repealed. Mr President! Things are coming quickly, and the nurses have already been in touch and asked what all this means. If I have understood correctly, it would be desirable for as many people in the care sector as possible to volunteer to work in the care sector — is that not the case that we start with voluntarily? And, of course, this regulation also includes taking into account the current situation of these carers, if you are in a risk group yourself, or if you may be a single parent or have small children, i.e. whether you will be able to work there. Is that right? Mr Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, if you can open up a little in plain language that what all this means. Healthcare personnel are under tremendous pressure. There are nurses working with different education, there are students, there are cleaning workers, cleaners, care workers, there are doctors, surgeons, different professional groups. They're doing an incredibly important job, and all of us are looking at them. We all look at them and hope and expect that they have the wisdom to care for people well and know what is being done at what stage. It is very important that there are staff, and once again in this situation, when we need staff, we see how difficult it is to find them. That is what has often been said here: wage policy, the modesty of the sector. Now, once again, we understand that more attention will also have to be paid to these issues in the future. There has been talk here of breathing machines and that there are not enough machines, but not just the machine, but also the nurse who knows how to use that breathing machine. And it has also been awakened to the fact that when swine flu was in 2009, it was found that already at that time there was a lack of knowledge and of these breathing machines, we are still in the same situation. So when it comes to the treasure, the diamond, the nurse who understands intensive care and knows how to treat the patient and understand how to use the technology and machine, she must also be respected and appreciated with the professionalism, and it is the pay policy to tell that as long as you train and know and control. We know that cuts in the HUS region may be reversed because there are no skilled surgical staff present, that is, they are the pearls, they are the diamonds, they are the iron experts. That field of work in the care sector and the level of competence is infinitely wide. In Finnish health care we are in good hands, we are in very good hands. And I would like to wish all health care personnel infinite strength, wisdom and endurance in demanding work. The nurse is with an ordinary person — she has a family, she has children, she has everyday chores and cares and worries, but now she takes on such great responsibility and so much grief for those she cares for, that she cannot even comprehend it, and there is all thanks and all the wish of strength as well as for all of us. Mr President! For the Bureau, for all of us Members of Parliament, for the workers here in Parliament and for the citizens, a great deal of strength. Let's support each other and help each other and call one another on the phone and see if we can help. It is now our duty as citizens, but it is also the only humane way to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u44	Mr President! This legislation has now come before Parliament in time, because it may be that we are facing a situation in which health care staff are also subject to work orders. What has been public in recent days is that a private company, the Bee, has tried to recruit doctors and nurses from us to Spain at the moment. In fact, I noticed that in this law, even if these articles of the Emergency Act are introduced, there is no such possibility that these nurses and doctors will remain in Finland, where they may soon be urgently needed. This legislation is a pretty tough trick because, in practice, a nurse can be given a work order and can only be refused on certain specific grounds that are justified and can also be found here in the law, so it means that this legislation allows the state to assign a nurse to the front line, to the front line to fight and treat patients. In this regard, I would just like to say briefly that it is important, when we make these provisions, and indeed even now, that these staff have adequate protective equipment so that they do not themselves get sick or take it to their loved ones, let alone to other patients. The second point is this matter of testing. Unfortunately, we still have a message that health workers are not being adequately tested, and there is still a criterion that we should have contact with abroad, and this should be done by the government, by testing, by protective equipment, and if we have been exposed, then we should not go to the workplace. These are absolute where such legislation is imposed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u45	Mr President! The regulation of the obligation of health care staff to work is a matter which, of course, has given rise to a wide range of ideas over the last few days. In such an exceptional situation, however, the obligation is understandable and necessary. I believe that two points should be made much clearer and more precise in the regulation. Firstly, what is meant by the ‘short-term’ sector of the regulation? Secondly, the order issued in another place also requires clarifications on matters such as commuting and other matters relating to practical arrangements. Just as Mr Rantanen said, it has been possible to read on the media today that perhaps there would be healthcare professionals leaving Finland to help them in their difficult corona situation. This is something that should be considered very carefully, because we cannot know when the situation here in Finland is such that we need these professionals to help us people living in Finland, and if there is no clarity about this, then we will have to intervene by law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u46	Mr President! The health care staff is the brilliant one, is the diamond we need, indeed every one of us, in that situation if we fall ill and need one or another kind of help in health care. Without health care staff, this country will not survive, either during corona infection or otherwise. That is why, firstly, a big thank you to all those who work there, and secondly, a reminder to the management to take good care of our health care staff — as has been pointed out here: it is testing, but also adequate protective equipment, adequate rest and other attention to their needs, so that they too can survive through this infection episode as well as beyond. Of course, it is intended that work, work obligations and arrangements can be made there in cooperation with management and health care staff, and I hope that voluntary work will also be possible in such a way that this section of the Emergency Act, which is now under discussion, does not have to be introduced at all. However, when situations can quickly change and the corona epidemic, at least so far, this kind of regulation, which we now have to regulate, may be very necessary, and therefore, as is said here, under exceptional circumstances, anyone living in Finland who has a municipality of residence in Finland, which is active in the health sector, has been trained in this field and has reached the age of 18 but not yet 68 years, is obliged to do the necessary work for the purpose of the Emergency Act in health care. An order for such work may be issued for a maximum of two weeks and renewed once. This was already before us in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but at that time we really felt it necessary not only to introduce an obligation to work, but, at the same time, to protect the status and rights of the worker as provided for in Chapter 14 of the Emergency Act or other regulations of an equivalent level. On the other hand, if the obligation to work comes into force, then the regulations protecting the status and rights of the worker must also enter into force. For example, what are such regulations? They are legal acts concerning the obligation to register, the employment order, the restriction on the issuing of a work order, the conditions of employment, the obligation to provide information and the register of obligations of the employer to take into account when the employment order is issued. In other words, even though we have exceptional circumstances and we have a preparedness law in place, we do not want to and cannot just impose obligations, but we must also take care of the status and rights of workers. It is a fundamental prerequisite for a democratic society. Here, too, I would see that the Constitutional Committee worked closely, that, although this section of the Emergency Act needs to be introduced, it will be introduced in such a way that the whole is something that ultimately works for the good of all of us. With these words, thank you for today’s hard work both in this house and there in health care. Let us remember our health care staff and do our best for us, that is to say, let us try to keep this corona epidemic limited — not just to limit it, but to kill it. I believe it is possible in this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u47	The chairman of the committee, Mr Ojala-Niemelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-27-ps-40.u48	Mr President! Mr Juvosen's question about who this law concerns: Here are four main groups that have been thought to be affected. First of all, people under 68 are retired. These are mainly people on early retirement and part-time retirement. They have been estimated to total 21,000 people in this country. Then there are the teachers of medicine and pharmacy that can be used, and the students of medicine and pharmacy. Then, for the time being, those in other sectors who have received health education, could now be temporarily re-registered in this area, as it were. They've been estimated at 25,000 at the moment. This creates a reserve of some 47,000 people. It is likely that not all of these will be received, but if even part of this group, then we will have enough workers in the industry when the epidemic crisis gets worse. A great deal has also been said about whether this applies to those abroad. As Mr Tanus mentioned above, this applies to those who have a municipality of residence in Finland. In other words, it is not possible to get Finns from Norway and Sweden who are currently working in the health sector back to their country of origin under this law. Indeed, these grounds for refusal are age, family relations, and then health. Of course, it is not intended that people at risk, for example, should then be obliged to work. These employment relationships are subject to normal labour law and you can appeal, i.e. legal protection has also been provided. According to Article 130(2) of the Emergency Act, an appeal can also be lodged against a decision to impose an obligation of employment. Indeed, under Section 86 of the Emergency Act, these personnel may also have to be transferred to different parts of Finland if there is a situation that a particular local health care system is under strain so that more people are needed.
