ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u1	The third thing in the order of business is oral Question Time, which today is actually oral Question Time and An hour and a half. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u2	Congressman Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u3	Honorable Speaker! It is nice to start this kind of long Question Time with a topic about Finland's growing responsibilities in EU support mechanisms. Now, first of all, if it is said that all the EU's support mechanisms are up to one and a half trillion — I repeat: one and a half trillion. So this is the Finnish state budget for some 300 years, and this amount could be used to buy a new electric car for all Finns and a fine private house, a house of two hundred tonnes. What is the role of Finns? Guarantee the debt, pay the debt. There's been another call to sign a guarantee agreement. What's going on? In future, therefore, we will support the fact that other countries will be able to make the same part-time lay-off model as in Finland. Finns do not benefit from it. And that is not all: Through the Investment Bank, Finns are able to guarantee company loans in the brooch countries. It's coming in.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u4	Mr President! Mr Vähämäki is quite right that Finland's responsibilities are quite extensive in comparison between the countries of the European Union, and a large proportion of them have, of course, come from history when Finland is committed to various international mechanisms, but also to those national measures. We have a very important shipbuilding industry that has demanded commitments from Finland. Well, if we are talking about these recent mechanisms, they are related to the fact that the whole of Europe has been affected by the corona virus, which is not the result of any country's economic policy. It is important for Finland that the euro area is stable and it is important for us that each country is responsible for its own economic policy. We are also involved in cooperation mechanisms, and, for example, the European Investment Bank, which you slandered, has also been able to help Finnish companies since the mid-1990s with almost EUR 17 billion,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u5	Mr President! Mr Vähämäki's question is very important and timely in that it is a common goal and an interest for all of us to know what we are committed to and to know what our responsibilities are. It has been a very clear starting point for the Finnish Government to develop and commit to these new EU mechanisms. We need to know how much these new mechanisms mean to Finland and that they are sufficiently precise. We believe that we have had a very strong influence on these European negotiations, and the draft regulation on this SURE employment insurance scheme, for example, has changed in such a way that Finland's responsibilities could be clearly described, just as the Committee on Finance has been informed. It must be said that the EU is far more to us than just these mechanisms. Our economy depends on how export markets develop, and the EU is our main export market.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u6	Now I ask those representatives who want to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u7	Honorable Speaker! It was a good thing that this employment insurance fund was dealt with here. As an EU-wide lay-off subsidy — that is to say, it sounds good, and obviously Finland has got something through, but I am surprised that the truth is that Finland will not benefit from it at all. So we pay our own lay-offs with our own mechanisms, part-time lay-offs, and then we will support the fact that other EU countries will be able to make the same kind of mechanism that we already have here in Finland. The price tag for this is 430 million — it is generally believed, but nowhere has it been said that the multi-annual framework will put an even bigger pot on top of it, i.e. about 1300 million. This would like to say that, when you include this investment bank as a whole, you will quickly increase the guarantee by 2100 million. Now explain to the Finnish people: why we should guarantee so many of them,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u8	Mr President! Of course, you can't always say no to everything. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] Now that we have this corona virus, it is not the result of the consequences of any economic policy. We have been able to go along with certain things within the framework of the Constitution and the mandates of Parliament, things that are clearly, precisely and unambiguously limited.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u9	Mr. Speaker! The economy of the southern euro area has not been any good before the corona crisis. For their own sake, it has been in the mud long before the corona crisis. Now, under the pretext of the corona crisis, we are allowing the suffering of the euro to continue. I wonder how the centre, as the Finance Minister's party, is so passionately in favour of joint responsibilities. What does it determine that Finland pays the debts of rich people there in Italy? When it is well said that Italy is a poor country with a rich people, and Finland is a rich country with a poor people, does Finland pay for all this fun? What's the point? This doesn't make any sense. The Finnish people suffer and have to pay the bill for the naivety of this government. By no means do the Finns accept that these guarantee responsibilities and joint responsibilities are simply raised and raised. Tell me again: why more than 800 million aid to Italy?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u10	Mr President! Dealing with common business is a co-operation. Mr Tavio knows perfectly well, as a representative of the government party during the last parliamentary term, that there must be cooperation. In the same way, when the Finns are in government, they are committed to the stability of the euro area, to the development of a banking union, to many cooperation mechanisms, because our interest is that the euro area is stable, and it is in our interest that each country manages its own economic policy. That is why it is worth talking about in Finland and, of course, we expect each euro area and EU country to do the same. If we are talking about this employment fund, for example, then countries that are not in the euro have also entered into it, because they see that we have to work together now, that we will get through this all in all. And even though we make — yes, they are a lot of money — 800 million in total guarantees, our national action is one of the most important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u11	Mr President! Mr Tavio, you did use expressions with a rather dead-end echo when you said that this type of solidarity mechanisms are being created under the pretext of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u14	Mr President! EU rules prohibit solidarity with Member States' debts. In reality, of course, solidarity is achieved through arrangements designed to circumvent the rules. This should give rise to uncomfortable ideas in those who emphasise the EU's role in the protection of the rule of law. Solidarity and the payment of other debts are justified by the fact that chaos in the euro area would also hit Finland's own ankle and that shoveling money would therefore also be our own advantage. However, the question is: is it our interest to be part of a currency that binds us to pay off other debts? There will be no change in this situation, except perhaps because Finland itself is insolvent. Maybe that day isn't far. Is it the government's line that the euro should be saved at all costs, or is there a point?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u15	Mr President! State affairs must be handled responsibly, and the opposition and the government are aware of that, and, whenever they are in power, the euro area must be dealt with responsibly. That is why it is essential for us to take care of its stability, and that is why it is essential for us to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u20	Mr President! After this corona crisis, Europe and its economy must be rebuilt, and we need common European action and a stable euro, our common currency. It is also in Finland's interest: 60% of our exports go to the EU, 40% of Finland's exports go to the euro area. [Jussi Halla-aho’s interlude] My first question relates to the fact that the Finnish line has changed, since I have no longer seen Finland in the Hansa Group on the basis of public opinion, while holding tight to conditionality, that each country is responsible for its own economy, because they are not yes or no, but that the border is drawn in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u21	Mr President! That is exactly what Mr Orpo said well: Finland's interest is a strong European Union, Finland's interest is a strong euro area, we work together and we look for solutions together. We have a strong internal market, where we also export a lot of Finnish goods and goods. With regard to the question of whether Finland belongs to a particular group of countries or to a group of four stringents that are being discussed, Finland will act as a constructive party in the negotiations. We look at things as things and seek consensus, and of course we understand that when we seek consensus, then no country can get it through its own position as a perfect one, but must come against others and seek common solutions. With regard to this issue of the recovery fund: this is a large package and we have not yet received the Commission's proposal on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u22	I would remind Members that it is forbidden to describe the plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u23	Mr President! Just as Prime Minister Marin has said here, our starting point is that the EU is united and that the EU retains its ability to act. The objective is not to create different blocks within the EU. [Ville Tavio’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u24	Mr President! We know that the French banks have more than 300 billion and more than 100 billion from Italy and Spain, but we also know, as Mr Orpo said here, that Finland's exports are 60 % to EU countries and 40 % to the euro area, so the question is: when the ECB put 750 billion into the securities purchase programme and when there are all other support packages, is it not done precisely because these export destinations could afford to buy Finnish products and if there are bankruptcies, then Finland will go bankrupt in the same way?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u25	Mr President! The success of breaking the link between banks and states is, of course, absolutely central in Europe. In Finland this was painfully done in the early 1990s, and unfortunately it has still not been done everywhere. That is why the basis for economic policy in its shape must be so strong that it does not fall into the kind of problems that have been seen in the euro area in the past and hopefully not in the future. That is why the Finnish position that we are committed to the euro area and to its stability is central to us, but in exactly the same way those countries that have a major problem must be able to take care of their own finances and debt relations — and this also applies to this country. We are going to have tough times to deal with how we can contain our own indebtedness. We did not succeed in the last decade, but hopefully we will succeed in the next decade. So this also applies to us, not just the others.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u28	Mr President! Cooperation is a good thing, but cooperation must be built on the fact that each Member State manages its economy. Finland has some EUR 7 billion of inherited responsibilities from the Euro Crisis. By far the majority of Member States’ shares are guarantee liabilities. The risk or risks will materialise if a euro country fails to fulfil its responsibilities. And just as a few Members have already said, we are talking about huge amounts of aid, up to thousands of billions of euros in total — I repeat: thousands of billions of euros. I quote Päivi Leino-Sandberg, Professor of European Law at the University of Helsinki: ‘The final week of the Eurogroup’s decision to prepare the European Stability Mechanism for the management of the crisis is a problem for What is the government’s answer to this interpretation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u29	Mr President! It is important that the conditionality of the European Stability Mechanism is realised. In this corona crisis, the conditionality of the stability mechanism is realised in that it is only possible to obtain a loan for health-related expenditure, only 2% of gross domestic product. For many countries, it makes no sense to apply for a loan because they receive cheaper loans on the market. All the issues of the European Stability Mechanism that are now being dealt with will be done on the basis of their existing treaties. Indeed, even when the Christian Democrats have been in the government, there has been a commitment to the very high responsibilities of the ESM, over 10 billion for Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u32	Mr President! Finland has very strong parliamentary control, and it is very good that this is the case. I myself have stressed in the negotiations, and when we have held videoconferencing meetings with the EU Heads of State and Government, that in Finland the budgetary authority is exercised by the Parliament, and therefore all the presentations that come must be precise and clear so that Parliament can assess what we are committed to and what we do not want to commit to. It is good to recognise this in this Chamber and in the debate that we have the power to use Parliament as regards the budget, and of course all these proposals will be brought before Parliament and Parliament will assess whether they are such that Finland can commit to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u33	Mr President! I must say that Mr Orpo made a very good speech to this parliamentary term. At least it was an excellent start.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u36	The policy of the Government and the whole parliament is, as has been said many times, that budgetary sovereignty is unambiguous in this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u41	Mr President! Mr Kulmuni said just now that it is not possible to say no to everything that someone is on our side at some point. I would like to hear what we have never said in the EU and when someone has been on our side. There is no point in explaining that these new instruments would be temporary or mere management of the interest rate. When money and power are handed over to the EU, it does not come back from there and can not be trusted to spend the money. Contracts have been violated in the EU before and supervision is not credible. In practice, it is only social aid and development aid. And that is not all: the government also supports additional guarantees from the ESM for the corona crisis, although the whole instrument is not intended for its management. It would be enough to guarantee that many large euro countries have managed their economies so badly to date that before the interest rate, hundreds of billions of packages of aid were discussed, and that is not enough to be covered by the ESM. The government has no backbone to go out of the euro, we have already heard that, but what is the government's plan for the euro area to break down partially or completely in any event as a result of this crisis? Have you already prepared for the changeover to your own currency or for a currency union that is more favourable to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u42	Mr President! Finland’s advantage is that the euro area remains a stable operating environment. Everyone can wonder how stable Finland was when we had our own currency in the early 1990s, and what kind of banking crisis we experienced here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u47	Mr President! It is indeed hard news if, on the basis of what Mr Mäkelä has said, the Finns of Finland are now getting rid of the euro and speaking for the euro and the EU. I would like to hear what Mr Halla-aho has to say about this at the moment. Even the markka was not such a generous currency if we can remember the devaluation spirals that were in Finland. It has to be said now that euro membership has brought stability to Finland and kept interest rates down and at the moment makes sure that Finland receives a very cheap loan and that companies are able to obtain credit. The euro has been a good currency for Finland. [The fundamental Finnish group : Yes, yes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u48	Mr President! The recession in the early 1990s was caused by the wrong policy in the 1980s, and it was then that Finland was put in good shape, so that we could get to or get to the EU and the euro, to which the present government parties, other than the centre, took Finland — and that was a heavy mistake. We have been the payers, we are the guarantors today. Finland guarantees, the EU distributes — to the Mediterranean countries. This area is so asymmetrical, so weak that we are totally wrong about association. It is quite clear that when China, the United States, Russia and the EU are currently suffering from this economic situation, which we have, the euro will break down. That is why we should make a plan in case this happens. And do not belittle the huge responsibilities that Finland has for this sum mentioned by Mrs Vähämäki, less than 2%. It's tens, hundreds of billions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u49	Now there was no real question, but Prime Minister Marin still wants to answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u50	Mr President! Mr Kankaanniemi, you said in some way that Finland is totally wrong about being in the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u53	Mr President! Here, on the other hand, a variety of political homages are recycled about how useful this is for Finland, and nothing negative must be looked at. Some people are already saying that criticising the euro is putting the euro in Putin's lap and that we would like to be held under the arms of Russia. I think this is quite incredible talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u56	Mr President! That speech by Mr Purra was not so bad,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u57	Mr President! Here earlier, ministers told us that we are constructive and seeking solutions, and that is exactly what should be done in the EU. Decision - orientedness certainly leads to our voice being heard better. However, with some concern, I listened to those speeches where you said quite frankly that we are not, as it were, part of a group that would actively speak against, for example, solidarity or increased responsibilities. However, it has been the Finnish line for a long time, and I would like to ask: is this the case now that we no longer feel strongly that way? My second question relates to this recovery fund, which was previously asked about, and you replied, Minister Tuppurainen, that the Finnish line is still open. Is it, however, that there is no mechanism for this to go beyond the normal decision-making process in the EU? The amounts involved are so large — they are many times higher than the EU's normal annual budget level — that they must also be used in the normal democratic decision-making order.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u58	Mr President! I'll answer as I did before: Of course, Finland is negotiating on its own basis with the mandates we have received from the large committee and from this house. That is our mandate for the negotiations, and that is why we are moving forward. We are not negotiating on the basis of whose side we are or who is our friend, but of course we are raising the views of Finland and Finland on different issues, whether it is the multiannual financial framework or other issues. The Finnish Government represents the line approved by the Finnish Parliament, the line we have formed together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u59	Mr President! Now that Finnish companies are in the midst of a corona crisis and are trying to hold on to business and save jobs, the worst poison now would be the uncertainty of whether Finland is part of the euro or the European Union. I hope no one drives it. And I don't think so, because the Minister of Finance, Mr. Kulmuni, was right that the Finns have also been involved. Was it the case that the group leader, Mr Tavio, in the large committee himself, approved the Greek support package during the last parliamentary term, [Markus Black Lake interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u60	Mr President! Lindtman hit right on the nail. That's exactly how it is. We have already committed ourselves to the government programme that each Member State is primarily responsible for its own economy itself and that there is no solidarity of this kind to be built up. But it has to be said that our destiny is so intertwined that we in the Member States, of course, have solidarity in a certain way, because we have a common internal market and a common currency. We cannot think that if a Member State now falls into reckless problems, we too will not be affected. That is why it is in our common interest that we are seeking solutions. One solution has been to review the programmes of this multiannual financial framework so that we can better support the recovery of the Member States, invest in research, product development, boost investment and so on. And if this kind of separate recovery fund is then made, then it is accurate and fixed-term, and if that is the case with loans given, they will also then be repaid.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u62	Mr President! Representative Lindtman very closely summed up the long line that Finland has had. We are a solution-oriented euro area country and a Member State of the EU, and when we come to those future proposals we do not really know what the Commission's proposal will be, for example, with regard to this multiannual financial framework, so that everything is still speculation. Of course, the level of Finland's success in its own negotiating objectives, this new interest rate situation, must be coordinated. But the basis for this house to decide, according to the Finnish Constitution, on our budgetary sovereignty and we do not accept solidarity liabilities in the euro area, at European level, is the line that has been taken by more governments. That is why it is so important for countries to conduct their own economic policy in an appropriate way, and if we demand it from others, then we ourselves must also be an example. Finland cooperates with different countries. On certain issues, we have similar positions with some countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u63	I heard Mr. Tavio's name. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u69	It's going too far for seconds now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u70	Mr President! We are also committed at European level to managing public debt responsibly and to making reforms, and it is worthwhile for every country to do them. They have not always been very easy in Finland, but they must be done in every country. The more successful they are, the better the euro area and the EU will work, and that is what we expect from other countries. You can't just say no to everything. It will not take this country forward
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u71	Mr President! It is not in favour of leaving the euro area, but we are concerned about it. [Interjection from the Basic Finns Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u72	Mr President! To this land division which you have just described: In fact, Finland is very much in line with Germany in that we want to find solutions and we understand that different countries have different incomes and must be coordinated and found the common line behind which we can also stand. Germany, for example, is not one of these countries, which currently include the Netherlands, Austria, Denmark and Sweden, which are taking a very tough line. On the other side there may then be some countries in southern Europe in particular. Finland and Germany are currently in the middle, looking for solutions and looking for cooperation and trying to coordinate different perspectives so that we can find a common path for the whole Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u73	More than one minister will raise his hand. It would be hoped that one minister would be targeted. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u74	Mr President! The EU Commission and France, for example, have long dreamed of introducing a financial stability system into Union law. Their vision for the euro area would be to appoint a finance minister, who would be responsible, among other things, for the stability system, and they would see the ESM as an instrument of economic policy and a place where credit can be obtained. On the other hand, the point of departure of the Hanse country proposal is that the European Stability Mechanism must not become an instrument for transfers between Member States. The Hansa Group wants the Member States themselves to take care of their economies and that, if the countries get into problems, the ESM will examine the depth of the problems and the country's ability to repay them. If there is no liquidity, the processing of the loan application in the ESM will cease. I would like to ask: why does the current government not want to continue working closely with the Hansa Group?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u75	Mr President! Just last week, the institutions in the EU estimated that these conditions for the European Stability Mechanism are met for all Member States: they are macro-economic conditions, and if a Member State wishes to apply for a loan now as a result of the corona crisis, it can only be used for those health reasons. You are trying very hard to blame the government for having also responded at European level to the corona crisis. Certainly a decade ago, when, for example, this stability mechanism for Europe was made and more than EUR 10 billion was committed — that is, almost one-sixth of the responsibilities that Finland has in all, were made when the Christian Democrats were also in government — an attempt was made to ensure European stability.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u78	The first issue was to increase the guarantee liabilities of the euro area support mechanisms, but it has also been very much linked to this interest rate situation. At this stage, other corona-related topics will also be included. Of course, questions can still be asked on the first subject. Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u79	Mr President! For a month now, the government has been making a package for the restaurants, and it is still not ready. Over a week ago, you decided to open the restaurants on 1 June. — in certain forms. Now you have not reached a decision in what form. There are just under 100,000 restaurant entrepreneurs and employees. They should draw up working lists, acquire raw materials, market and announce who employees can stay and who will be laid off. How do you think all this will be done in a week? Everybody's got their money tight. Don't you think about these people? And why can restaurants not be completely opened in places where infections have decreased? Also the question: why should restaurants be closed at 21:00? Why are you dragging these things around all the time? Mr President! I've been a restaurant owner myself, and I know what discipline they live in.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u80	Mr President! Yesterday, in its negotiations, the government held a debate on this opening of restaurants in a controlled and gradual manner, with the aim of giving Parliament next Tuesday an amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, which would allow for the adoption of a regulation and certain limits and conditions for the safe opening of restaurants in this situation. I think it is important that this draft regulation should also be made available to Parliament at that stage. I do not believe that we will have an open mandate for this whole House, but I assume that at that stage Parliament will also want to know what this regulation will be like. I think it is important that these things go hand in hand and that Parliament receives all the information it needs with regard to this change in the legal clause so that it can accept it. These things will be brought as soon as they are ready. Preparations on this matter are still pending.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u81	Now I would ask those of you who want to continue asking questions on this corona issue to press the V button and stand up. I would stress that these support mechanisms and the increase in guarantee liabilities may also be asked in so far as they relate to the interest rate. Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u82	Mr President! Around the world, efforts are being made to slow the corona down by about the same means: there is a reduction in physical contact, there is safety distance, there is hand hygiene and so on. In a number of countries, in addition to this, together with these means, governments recommend that citizens use face masks in shops, for example. This is no wonder, because international top experts have concluded that these are useful. This was also the case in Finland today, although some news headlines may have been different. What is the Finnish Government doing in this situation? It has decided that the STM will continue to investigate and investigate the matter. Minister Kiuru, what are you still investigating and investigating? What kind of smart rock are you looking for that the world's top experts haven't found yet?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u83	Mr President! The representative is right that the government has held a debate on the way forward in the fight against and prevention of the corona virus, and in that respect the government has declared this hyper-strategy, i.e. the way forward, based on the gradual dismantling of these demanding restrictions for the whole of Finland and the gradual transition to a more precise approach. In this respect, there are examples in the world that other strategies have also been chosen. At the moment, as the representative states, we have a comprehensive literature review at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health as to whether, in order to prevent the infection of this virus, there can also be an opportunity to introduce protective equipment and what kind of protective equipment, and there is no doubt that, on the basis of that assessment by VTT alone today, there is a broad consensus on this. VTT said today, at least in the information given to me,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u84	Mr President! I'm proud of the fact that 25 years ago, I started working for a dishwasher and a waitress. As I did 25 years ago, quite a few young people are currently wondering whether there are summer jobs in the restaurant industry, not to mention the tens of thousands of workers and thousands of entrepreneurs. The restaurant industry has suffered alongside the tourism industry and may have been hit hardest by the corona crisis. The sector is expected to receive compensation and measures for government restaurant subsidies, but the government has become unsettled. Now is the time to give light to the sector and to take measures in addition to subsidies. The Coalition Party considers that effective measures would be to reduce the rate of VAT and to allow the sale of wines and beers by their percentage of alcoholic volume. Both measures would effectively support demand when restrictions are lifted. The latter would also increase tax revenue. Does the government intend to support the restaurant sector by reducing the VAT rate and allowing the sale of alcoholic products?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u85	Mr President! After all, support for restaurants has been provided to the Parliament on how to replace it when business activities are limited by law. In addition, in addition to direct support, we have a more general incentive support that has been reported today, which would come as automation. If we had all these ready two months ago, of course we would have gone faster, but since the country has never experienced such a thing, it is important that we get everything in order for the autumn to come together. Then, with regard to the tax arrangements that have been made, the Parliament is being brought into the system of refund of VAT and we have already had a payment arrangement before the Parliament, and of course the most important thing still is that Finns follow the instructions, and so we will gradually be able to open up society and even entrepreneurs will be able to do business and open their restaurants.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u86	The Prime Minister also asks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u87	Mr President! The debate may easily forget why these restrictive measures have been taken in the first place. They are not done because they want to harass or hinder a sector, but because they have been necessary to prevent the spread of the virus. So, of course, our objective is that the virus does not spread in society, that it does not get transmitted from one person to another, and that is why we have gone to a very early stage, even in the form of tough restrictive measures, which have also included a bill in the Parliament, which has been approved here, that restaurant activities should be closed down from their customer centres until the end of May. Now we are looking for ways to safely open up the restaurant business again from the beginning of June, but here too we really must ensure that hygiene is taken care of, distances are taken care of,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u88	Mr President! In opening Finland safely everything is that there is a clear plan, strategy, goals, tools and instructions. Mr President! On Wednesday, Helsingin Sanomat tried to provide Minister Kiuru with answers to more detailed information on the government's interest rate strategy. Helsingin Sanomat asked, among other things, what the government is aiming for infectivity rate, what the number of hospital and intensive care patients is in the government's view too high, whether the government's goal is to keep the infectivity rate below one, thus effectively reducing the epidemic, which, according to the scenarios in the Hetemäki report, corresponds to the government's choice as to whether the government's objective is to minimise coronavirus infections, i.e. to keep them as low as possible. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health reported that there are no answers to these. It would be absolutely essential to have information on these, because it increases confidence and lack of information increases mistrust and increases the sense of insecurity. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u89	Mr President! The Government’s objective is to prevent the spread of the virus in society, to safeguard the carrying capacity of health care and to protect people from risk groups. These objectives have been the same all along and remain the same. Of course, we are monitoring the progress of the disease situation and, as part of it, we are looking at the indicators described here by Mr Orpok, namely precisely what is the prevalence of the disease, how the number of hospitalisations, the number of patients, for example, is developing, how many intensive care facilities are in place, how the deaths associated with the disease are developing and also how immunity is occurring in the population. So these are the indicators that are being monitored and are described, for example, in the decision to set up the Prime Minister's Office when we set up this Hetemäe task force. I am pleased to say that tomorrow we will have another briefing, and there will be this epidemiological situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u90	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u91	Mr President! At a time when people over 70 years of age have been instructed to conduct quite strict quarantine conditions, nurses and doctors of almost the same age, over 60 years of age, even at risk, have in practice not been exempted from the tasks of direct treatment of corona patients. For example, according to the Medical Association report, two thirds of the doctors at risk had not been transferred to other tasks. Today, children and teachers have returned to schools. For many, it has certainly been a day of joy, but there are also high-risk teachers who have even told us that they have applied for paid leave to avoid the risk, but have not. When Minister of Education Li Andersson and also Minister Krista Kiuru have also assured Parliament that:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u92	Mr President! As the representative states, Finnish comprehensive schools have today returned to contact teaching, and as part of the guidance given by THL and the Ministry of Education and Culture on how to safely return to contact teaching in Finnish schools, guidelines have also been made regarding teachers belonging to high-risk groups and possibly children belonging to high-risk groups. With regard to the teaching staff in risk groups, it is very clearly stated that it is an assessment made in occupational health care and then, in cooperation with the employer, it is necessary to determine whether it is possible to transfer the person to other tasks. I have heard examples of teachers who have also been given the opportunity to continue teaching through remote communication because they belong to risk groups. Yes, at least as Minister of Education, I also require that municipalities and education providers be prepared to assume their own responsibilities and to ensure that all professionals in the field of education are experienced,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u93	Congressman Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u94	Mr President! People aged 70 years and above are at greatest risk of developing serious forms of disease caused by the corona virus. That's why they've been told for months to stay under quarantine-like conditions. While these restrictive measures are essential for the protection of life, they have been followed by experience of a deterioration in quality of life. Many older people are alone right now and have no meaningful work to do. In people with memory disorders, this can even lead to a drastic decrease in cognitive functions. Mr President! We will have to live with the corona virus for a long time, and that is why I ask Minister Kiuru: what means does the government intend to ensure the social contacts essential to the mental well-being of the elderly, even during exceptional circumstances, and thus to guarantee them a dignified old age and a good life?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u95	Mr President! We are in a disease situation at the moment that we have come to the conclusion at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health that we are reviewing these current guidelines, including on visiting practices. Today that guidance has not yet been completed, but very soon we will be receiving new instructions, especially in these various care institutions, in the case of visits to nursing homes. I think that the main idea must be to allow for safe visits first and only then, if this is not possible, then let us start by saying that visits are prohibited. In this regard, making this possible is now going on in a pretty good way in that field, that is to say, we have come to the same conclusion. The representative also asked how to deal with older people who, for example, are in home care or who do not yet need these services so much. It is clear that their mobility is also essential, and we are preparing guidelines for those over 70 years of age on:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u96	Congressman Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u97	Mr President! The long-standing and ongoing corona crisis has enormous economic implications. At the same time, preparations are being made for the largest single financial decision in Finnish history, the acquisition of the HX fighter. The cost of purchasing, EUR 10 billion, is higher than the cost of life. Today, the story of Suomen Kuvalehti raised serious doubts that life-cycle costs have been distorted, costs continue to rise and the same potential supplier has been popular in the tendering process. Has the Ministry of Finance prepared for a significant increase in costs? Can we afford it at all in the midst of the corona crisis and possible damages if the tender has been conducted in a discriminatory manner?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u98	Mr President! Of course, HX procurement is absolutely central to Finland's credible defence, and that is why it has been carried out across opposition-government borders both during the previous Parliament and very precisely since the current Parliament and also in the Government Programme. Due to the Koronavirus, there will perhaps be a delay of a few months in how negotiations can be negotiated, but in the same way, the exact euro guard, the Ministry of Finance, must be that when we complete all the documents and tenders, they will then be considered as fit for the budget that Finland has put in place for this project. Of course, the key to this is the operating and maintenance costs that we must think about in the decades to come when we talk about procurement, which goes back to the 2060s. Of course, from a domestic point of view, both industrial cooperation and maintenance and maintenance are all key elements, that it is also economically suitable for the framework,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u100	Irade the Talman! The recovery of interest must also be used to exploit the export business potential of the green transition. The Committees on Economic and Future Affairs, for example, have recently stated that Finland must make a determined effort to become a leading factor in a sustainable future, particularly through the development of system-level planning, development, research and business expertise in energy and environmental technologies. Among other things, the EU’s Green Deal offers excellent opportunities for a country such as Finland. I would like to ask: how is the government prepared for such a green recovery, while at the same time promoting technology exports? The EU Commission here estimates that achieving the current climate and energy targets alone will require additional investment of EUR 260 billion per year. This is such a cake that we need to catch as many Finnish companies as possible in these value chains and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u101	Mr President! This is a very important whole and a very important issue. It is quite clear that we need green investment. We need a view of how sustainably we are building the world in a climate so that it is a good place for our children and grandchildren to live, and at the same time, of course, we need the export euro that is available to Finland in this area, in clean technology. That is why Finland stresses and highlights the importance of this green growth programme, this Green Deal, and together with the European Union we are promoting it. This is a big, important issue for Finland, of course, from the perspective of a sustainable future, as well as from the economic and business point of view. This is one of the key issues that we must also look at when we are now making amending budgets and looking for those areas for recovery.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u102	Mr President! With regard to these overly ambitious climate objectives: we need to think about where we put the money. My question concerns something else, this masculine issue. About a month ago, I asked a written question — Minister Aino-Kaisa Pekonen answered it — whether it is possible to give the Finns masks free of charge. A month ago it did not seem possible, but is the situation going to change if perhaps the disease gets worse? Mr President! After all, China came to us with these masks, and that was a fiasco. They were the wrong kind. How's that going? And where are those masks now? Did they get the money back to buy good, real protective equipment with the same money? And when are we going to get domestic production going? When do we get our domestic masks?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u103	Mr President! This is an important whole. In particular, these amounts we are talking about if we are talking about such surgical mouth-to- nose protectors, if they are used by the whole population, then we are talking about very large quantities. It is quite clear that we do not currently have such quantities, and that is why the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is now examining whether such cloth masks would be good, for example, in public transport and in certain public spaces, and whether they could be substitutes. If we had as many surgical nasal caps — tens of millions, hundreds of millions a month — as they might be needed if they were to be used in general, they would certainly be useful, but for the time being we do not have that number. Therefore, the government has considered it very important that we get domestic production started as quickly as possible,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u104	Honored Speaker! In addition to external protection, it is at least as important to protect citizens internally. Today’s news announces how corona can cause a global mental health crisis. Even before the corona period in Finland, it took EUR 11 billion a year to treat mental health problems, and even young people had to wait in line for proper treatment for up to one year. This situation will not be improved by interest rates and, in particular, by subsequent sanctions. In what way does the government intend to ensure that mental health problems do not explode once and for all and that we do not have a huge totally excluded group of people who are permanently out of reach of any kind of aid? In addition to everything else, this is also a significant safety risk. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u105	Mr President! Thank you for an excellent question, Mr S.H.I.E.L.D. Personally, I think that the very common line in this Parliament has been that these issues of mental health work have been very committed together. And you are quite right that it is a work in which, in fact, the cost savings are also visible, because the amount that Finland spends to correct mental health is really large in relation to preventing these problems. I'm sure the interest will cause its own bill. You can see it already. In this regard, the old basis on which the government is going to build this work is that we immediately intervened at the beginning of the government's term to make a significant contribution to mental health. A mental health strategy was developed, which obliges all actors to commit to those common rules. It assumes that effective methods will be introduced at the basic level everywhere,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u106	Representative S.H.I.E.L.D. raised a very important issue in terms of the security and balance of our society as a whole, and specifically humanely. That is why I think it is good to see where we started in this government to dismantle restrictions: that was, of course, the opening up of libraries. There is quite a lot of story and the essence of the operation of this government, but also of the need of our nation, that libraries were really wanted and wanted to be opened. Of course, cultural and sports services are also involved. Today is the first day when outdoor sports facilities are open and people are able to prevent the challenges that can arise inside the head in such a special exception. We have a lot of plans and, of course, goals for summer and autumn,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u107	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u108	Mr President! First, a brief comment on masks: We can estimate that in older people's care, using masks as we are now using masks, we can save 200 workers a single serious infection. When we compare it to a situation at a distance of two meters in the open air, it goes to one part of a million. In tight interiors, of course, it is something in between, depending on the situation. My real question is that we have now achieved good results in this fight against the corona virus, and that is why we have been able to gradually open up society and activate the economy, but for more than two weeks we still have a maximum assembly limit of ten people and a recommendation that there should be no people in public places up to the throng. I know that the resources of the police are limited, but I would like to ask the minister in question: in what way have we been instructed, for example, not to have such crowded situations as the end of schools and the beginning of the summer,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u109	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Lindén, for the very important question. — In this exceptional situation, too, the police operate within the limits of their normal powers of action and intervene, if necessary, in situations and activities which endanger public order and security. These general meetings of more than ten people, such as demonstrations, are actually banned at the moment. On the other hand, public events, such as demonstrations and shows with more than ten people present, are also prohibited. But now, at the beginning of June, this limit will rise to 50 persons. As the representative quite rightly points out, it is also a matter of how each individual works in this society. Unfortunately, 7300 police officers are not enough to instruct every citizen by hand. Perhaps the same is partly related to the use of masks — if individuals feel that masks are worth using, then they are certainly worth using. The starting point for all police activity is that the police act by instructions, advice and invitations,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u110	Mr President! Officials talk and write about corona and strategy with official responsibility, and last yesterday the memorandum of the Government Decree STM stated that the progression of covid-19 pandemic will be curbed and spread until a sufficient proportion of the population has been exposed to the virus. In other words, the STM describes a herd protection strategy in this paper, but the government is talking about preventing the spread of the virus, and these are two different things. So I ask: why is the government talking about this in different words? If you have chosen such a strategy, is it not fair to tell the public as well? I would also like to ask: would it be good to listen to other experts at this point? Last week 46 researchers gave their own opinion on whether to suppress this disease, which means that it spreads to the minimum possible number of people. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u111	Mr President! Mr Rantanen and a part of your group have already called for this government to aim for such protection,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u112	Mr President! To make this point clear when it has been asked many times in this Chamber: The government's objective is to prevent the spread of the virus in society. For example, at the moment we do not know for certain that the disease will give immunity to it. We don't know that. This protection would probably only come through the vaccine, and I would consider it very irresponsible if the government were to seek the greatest possible proportion of the population affected by this disease. That is not what we want; that is not what we want. That is why we have imposed these restrictive measures and we have taken very tough measures because we want the virus not to spread to humans. That is why we are also very controlled in dismantling these restrictive measures, carefully monitoring how they affect them. We're not just following one chapter, just one chapter R. We are following many indicators, including how this disease is progressing, what its speed is, and we will react immediately if it seems so,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u113	Mr President! The clock is ticking, but there is no evidence of seasonal agricultural workers — at least according to the operators in the sector. There is currently a change in the law on foreigners in the Parliament. The amendment would extend the right to work for the applicant for temporary protection. However, the availability of labour does not increase by more than a few dozen persons. The temporary abolition of the period of validity of the bill from the start of the asylum process might be justified to some extent, but the extension of the right to work to the period after enforceable exit decisions is problematic. The extension of the right to work, even if it is only a temporary solution, does not encourage asylum seekers who have received a negative decision to comply with their obligation to return and return to their country of origin voluntarily, even if possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u114	Mr President! The government is committed to going through all the groups that are already in the country, in a situation where the disease is rampant all over the world, all over Europe. Why would we bring thousands of people from outside the borders in this situation if there are people here who can work? Is it not worth going through all those groups, such as the many young people who missed out on summer jobs? Of course the government will go through all the means. This is one way in this big palet. I myself at least get a lot of worried messages from those farms, and they really do need a workforce. Why not find out how it is possible to do so, because at the moment, when an asylum seeker submits a re-application, he will be completely excluded from the availability of the labour market for three months or six months? Why would people be inactive if they could help this society in this situation? This is a central issue, and I am a little surprised that there is a message from the direction of the delegation that people should not work where possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u115	Mr President! Now we should just really get the answer as to whether the government is looking for an infection rate that is more than 1 or less than 1, because it less than 1 means that the disease is fading here among us, and more than 1 means that it is spreading. When you do not answer it, it makes you feel vague, and that is why it is so essential to get the answer to whether you want the disease to spread or to be pressed down. The Coalition Party has argued that the disease is aggressively restricted and that the target is less than 1 infection rate, and if it is raised, then it will be pressed down even with regional restrictions. People need to get that sense of security. Nobelist Holmström said that ‘the spread of the Pelcorona virus is limited to a more significantrecovery of the threat economy’. That is why we are asking this question because there must be clear plans, clear objectives, people need to know. It's a sense of security. Then you dare to move.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u116	Mr President! I do understand the need for people to want one chapter, one clear thing, and then when one chapter is said, it would all be solved. We don't just follow one number, we follow different meters. We are following the incidence, this chapter R, we are following the way we have people in hospital and intensive care — and this is actually one of the indicators that you really want to follow, because how the number of people we have in the hospital develops tells us more clearly how the disease spreads in society — we are monitoring mortality, how this develops in relation to the disease, and we are also monitoring, of course, how immunity to the disease develops. In other words, we are following various indicators, several indicators, and then, if necessary, we will react if there is a significant and rapid outbreak of disease, for example, that restrictive measures should be re-introduced. There's not only one number we're looking at.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u117	Mr President! I will come back to Mr Sankelo's remarks on the amendment to the foreign law that we discussed in this Chamber yesterday. The number of unemployed asylum seekers affected by this amendment of the law is about a thousand at most, and a large proportion of them will be removed from this category by the time of harvest under the current law. It was by harvest that Minister Ohio justified this amendment of the law yesterday. Well, in any case, we have at least 4,000 asylum seekers in the process in Finland who have the right to go to work, and I would like to know: what kind of efforts has the Minister of the Interior made to get these asylum seekers who are already entitled to work? Depending on the TE Centre, their employment rate is currently somewhere between 0 % and 10 %, not to mention the much larger number of people on humanitarian grounds who already have a residence permit here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u118	Mr President! Mr Halla-aho asked a question very strongly about integration and the conditions under which people who have emigrated here can find employment. As far as the current situation is concerned, where there are many people of immigrant origin who, for example, have come from third countries to work here on a work permit, say, for example, in the restaurant sector, where the job has gone under because of the corona, and now it is also possible to obtain labour and potential for, for example, agriculture and the horticultural sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u121	Mr President! In anticipation of the need for masks, there was a serious failure and, as a result, the acquisition of masks has in part been out of control. Next, we need to turn our eyes to vaccines and ensure that they are available. It cannot afford to repeat the errors made in the procurement of protective equipment. Finding a viable and safe vaccine is one of the most critical solutions to the corona crisis. There's no vaccine like this yet. It is therefore now necessary to invest in research into vaccines and medicines and to ensure the availability of vaccines to the public through more than one route. When the vaccine is completed, it will create global competition and difficulties in accessing the vaccine, as has now been seen in protective equipment. In many cases, the vaccine has been better available in those countries that have taken part in the development work and should be aimed at with sufficient resources for development. Agreements and joint EU procurement can ensure the availability of the vaccine, and the re-launching of own vaccine production should also be evaluated in order to secure access. There are many of you. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u122	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Ikonen, for the very important question. Getting a safe vaccine as a means of fighting the corona virus is a common goal for all of us. The Government is currently supporting the development of coronavirus vaccine and the research of corona at both national and international level. As the representative has rightly said, there are currently several, even hundreds of different research projects under way with regard to vaccines. No vaccine has yet been given to the final phase of the study, and this will take its time. That is why it is very important that we, as Finland, are involved in both those international projects and national projects. At this stage, it is very difficult to assess the timing of the possible availability of vaccines, but we will do everything we can to ensure that we are involved in purchasing a vaccine in Finland when it is possible,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u123	On the subject of corona, Mr Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u124	Honorable Speaker! This has been a good Question Time. However, we still do not know whether the government's theme wants to prevent the spread of this disease from saying that the spread of the disease is being slowed down or that the spread of the disease is being suppressed. We still do not know whether the government recommends masks or not. We still don't know that. In fact, we know this: the government is in favour of greater solidarity, but the government is not familiar with its own proposals. You thus argued that the aid does not go to the banks. Two of the five programmes of the EIB, i.e. the EIB, are aimed at commercial banks. Then, while we go to this giant recovery instrument of the Commission,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u127	Mr President! As I said before about this European Investment Bank Guarantee Fund: Since 94 Finnish companies have been able to apply for funding there. All in all, almost 17 billion have succeeded in getting funding from this country, and over the last few years we have come closer to a couple of billions each year, and we have felt that, in this situation, when Europe is being shaken by this kind of corona wave, which is not the result of any country's own economic policy, both the euro countries and all the EU Member States have committed themselves to this investment fund arrangement and to that unemployment fund arrangement, and we are giving guarantees. We have not put money into it, as has been done, for example, some parliamentary term ago, and we will make sure that each country manages its own economic policy, because stability in the euro area is also absolutely central to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u128	Now we have a pre-emptive question which is not related to the corona and is presented to us by Mrs Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u129	Mr President! Finland’s high standard of living is based on natural resources, i.e. forests and fields, and this has created a huge productive forest industry for us in this country. It has created the metal industry, the chemical industry, energy production, all this. And thanks to farmers, after centuries of work, we have brilliantly clean fields that guarantee us very clean food. Now that we are experiencing the corona crisis, we must create our growth from the bioeconomy, as we all know. In this regard, Minister Krista Mikkonen recently appointed a working group, a month ago, to devise ways to get us out of this difficult economic situation as quickly as possible. And any activity based on domestic raw materials is certainly the best. There is only a small problem with the appointment of this task force. These genuine operators who work with the bioeconomy, forest owners, farmers, the forest industry and Metsähallitus, all the core groups were left out. Why? Will you, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u130	Mr President! In a way, this subject is also linked to the corona, because we are talking about recovery and how we can get on our feet after this crisis. That is a task shared by the whole of our government, and a large Hetemäe working group has been set up for this purpose, involving all ministers and all ministries also bringing forward proposals and ideas and with a scientific panel. At the Ministry of the Environment, we set up a Sustainable Recovery Task Force to look for ways to ensure that we do this resuscitation while at the same time helping us in the sustainability crisis after the corona, that is to say to solve the climate crisis and biodiversity loss, because we know that the recovery measures will be quite extensive and we should use the same euro to solve many common crises. This is what they do. This working group has now published the first results last Friday,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u131	Time is up and Question Time, Question Time is up. Let's move on to the other matters of the day.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u132	The fourth item in the order of business is now being presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of half an hour, or 30 minutes, will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u133	Mr President! The Government's proposal for legislation on the reform of the excise procedure and the car tax procedure is a major technical reform aimed at combining and harmonising the tax procedure for different tax types. The proposal is based on a transfer of competence from Customs to the Tax Administration in the area of excise duties and car taxation. The transfer took place during the last parliamentary term, with the aim of concentrating taxation more clearly on one expert organisation. This made it possible for taxable persons to apply the one-stop-shop principle in taxation. In this context, the procedural provisions were not amended, but taxation remained to be provided by the former procedures and by the information systems maintained by Customs. The reform of the procedural rules on excise duties and car taxation follows on from the extensive harmonisation and simplification of the tax administration's tax and tax collection procedure, which has been implemented in stages as part of the tax administration's information system reform. Mr President! The aim of the proposal is therefore to align the tax and tax collection procedures for product and car taxation, as well as the review and sanction systems with other tax procedures levied by the Tax Administration. Harmonisation would simplify and clarify tax legislation and thus reduce the regulatory burden on taxpayers, while at the same time improving the efficiency of the tax administration. Changes in procedures would also allow the introduction of a new information system for the Tax Administration in product and car taxation, which would also aim to save on information system costs. The aim of the proposal is to promote the timely administration of correct notification information and to encourage taxpayers to correct errors on their own initiative. In addition, the proposal aims to increase e-services, thereby reducing the administrative work of the tax administration, the costs associated with paper processing and also the administrative burden on the taxpayer. The proposal proposes to amend the excise legislation, the excise laws of the tax type and certain laws on charges to which the procedural provisions for excise duty apply. The proposal also proposes to introduce a new car tax law. In addition, the Act on the taxation of own-initiative taxes, the VAT Act, the Tax Recovery Act and the Act on tax increases and interest delays would be amended. Mr President! No changes are proposed to the amount of excise duties and car tax or to other tax criteria. The proposal proposes to amend only the tax procedure for excise duties levied by the Tax Administration. The procedure based on customs legislation on excise duties levied by customs in certain import situations would remain unchanged. The proposals on car taxation would mainly concern the procedures of both the Tax Administration and the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency. Excise duties would be converted into own-initiative taxes and their notification, payment, imposition and appeal would be governed by the Act on the taxation of own-initiative taxes. Common special procedures for excise duties would continue to be laid down in the Excise Act. Tax-specific procedural provisions would remain in the excise legislation. The time limit for the notification and payment of taxes by taxable persons who regularly operate in excise taxation would be the same as for VAT purposes and would therefore be extended by two weeks. Mr President! To the end: A change in the periodicity of the payment of the tax would mean a one-off reduction in the tax revenue of less than EUR 600 million in the year of entry into force of the change as the tax payment lapses. In the future, occasional taxable persons would also report and pay a tax for a tax period of one calendar month, which would also extend the notification and payment period for these operators. In certain circumstances, the tax deduction procedure would be waived and the refund would be granted on application. The car tax would continue to be subject to a chargeable tax, which would mainly be subject to the same procedures as other taxes levied. The notification of new vehicles by registered agents would be periodic and only one tax return would be given for all vehicles registered during the calendar month. It is also proposed to amend the tax returns for other vehicles. The procedural changes would mainly come into force from the beginning of the year, while product and car taxation will be transferred from the information systems maintained by Customs to the new tax system of the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u134	Mr President! Excise duties are indirect taxes on the consumption or use of products. Their main purpose is to increase the tax revenues of the State. In addition, they have environmental governance or health policy objectives. The car tax is another one-off tax provided for in the Automotive Tax Act. In 19 C.E., the total car tax revenue amounted to approximately EUR 1 billion. This proposal aligns the procedural provisions on product and car taxation with those on other taxes. The reform of the provisions on excise and car taxation is a continuation of the harmonisation and simplification of taxation procedures according to the Sipilä Government. The aim of the proposal is therefore to simplify and clarify tax legislation, thereby reducing the regulatory burden and improving the efficiency of the tax administration. In addition, the aim is, of course, to enable the introduction of a new information system for the Tax Administration, which aims to save money on information system costs. Moreover, it makes sense to increase e-services in general, thereby reducing administrative work, the costs of paper processing and the bureaucratic burden on taxpayers. Increasing the electronic procedure in product and car taxation will speed up and make the work of the Tax Administration more efficient, thus enabling more productive allocation of human resources. President! Reducing the administrative burden for Tax Administration customers, but especially for entrepreneurs, is in line with the central economic and tax guidelines. The reform will facilitate the everyday lives of entrepreneurs and clarify the administrative burden, so it is welcome. The harmonisation of legislation is also in line with the spirit of the standardisation work carried out last season by the Centre. I would like to thank Minister Kulmun for his clear and competent presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u135	Mr President! Although this is not a matter of direct car taxation, I would like to point out, however, that when we have working groups that are currently considering transport taxation, we have to say in person that with a little horror I am even waiting for the end, because it seems that when we keep the state in the treasury to get tax revenue, that car is the first car to be tackled. I myself calculated for fun, looked at leasing prices and a few other prices, and I would say that in a large part of the country where public transport does not work — and it will not function properly in spite of the money invested — for the active working population and the active people who have to move from one place to another, for example, keeping their own car is 10, 20 or 30 times more expensive than the monthly HSL ticket of EUR 53 here if there is an annual contract. This shows that we must push down the level of car taxation and the cost of driving in a significant way, because it cannot be right for a group of people who have been forced to use their own cars to take money for education, social and health care and for the rest of the state budget. There's got to be something else to replace this. If we think about our emissions targets, that we should halve emissions, the only way is for the car fleet to be renewed, and it cannot be renewed unless taxation is reduced so that the car tax is completely abolished. This is important in that way, because we also have goals for road safety, and if the car fleet does not recur if the new cars are too expensive, then the demand goes beyond Finland's borders, and the older the car, in principle, is less safe. I would also like to raise this issue in the presence of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u136	Mr President! This board's presentation, 418 pages, was already given to Parliament on 23 April, three weeks ago. Of course, it is perfectly understandable that it is only now in the referral debate. Of course, it has been sought to give all Members of Parliament the opportunity to familiarise themselves with this, first to read this and then to deepen their understanding of this proposal. Indeed, a weaker reader may have passed another evening’s bath, at least in part. The roots of this presentation are there at the beginning of 2017, during Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's reign, when excise duty and car taxation were transferred from Customs to the Tax Administration. There was also a desire to transfer these forms of taxation under the same expert organisation, which in general delivers the tax. This reform of the excise procedure and of the car tax procedure is a major step towards aligning the tax procedure for these taxes with other tax procedures. Different procedures will only be maintained if the differences between different types of tax absolutely require this. In the future, excise duties can be handled through the Tax Administration’s MyTax service. The car tax would continue to be subject to a tax which would be subject to the same procedures as those applied to other taxes subject to the levy. Mr President! The proposal is important as it would reduce the administrative burden on entrepreneurs in particular and thus make their daily lives easier. The harmonisation of legislation will clarify the operating environment. In the future, for example, it would be easier, faster and free of charge to apply for a registered car tax return. The tax administration could also give a preliminary ruling on the value of the vehicle on the basis of the application. The proposal does not have any effect on the basis of which excise duty or car tax is based, but it would, among other things, extend the period for payment of excise duty, which would be the same as VAT in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u137	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u138	Mr President! This is a government proposal to amend the law on transport services, the driving licence law and the Government regulation on the professional qualifications of lorry drivers and bus drivers. As a general rule, these changes come from a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directive on basic qualifications and further training for drivers of certain vehicles intended for the carriage of goods and passengers by road and the Directive on driving licences. The deadline for implementing these changes comes from the directive and is mainly 23 May this year. The proposed changes will update the professional qualifications requirements of truck and bus drivers in line with EU regulation. The changes to be made concern, inter alia, the content and implementation of professional training, in particular the use of ICT tools in training, mutual recognition and exchange of information between the competent authorities of the Member States on continuing training in another Member State for supervisory purposes. In addition, the situations in which the professional qualifications of a lorry driver or bus driver are not required are specified. There are, of course, a number of amendments which are not covered by the directive. The most important of these are the amendment to the Transport Services Act on the obligations of training centres to retain professional qualifications for lorry drivers and bus drivers, and the addition to the Act on driving licences, which treats night-time epileptic seizures in the assessment of driving health as open-ended seizures. These amendments also specify the details of the retention of the student records of car schools. Thirty-five opinions were issued on the draft of the Government’s draft opinion, which were largely of the same mind as regards the draft proposal and the need to amend it. Some of the comments concerned the need for change that came from the Directive and for which Finland has no national margin of manoeuvre. Restrictions on training through ICT in vocational training are one example of such a change. On the basis of the opinions, restrictions were specified on the teaching methods used in vocational training and, as proposed, the 12-hour limit for further training is limited to independent e-learning where there is no real-time relationship between the student and the teacher. The opinions also proposed legal and linguistic corrections to the Government’s proposal, and these proposals have been fully taken into account in further preparation. Ladies and gentlemen — I can, of course, speak in plural terms. The proposed amendments to the Act on Transport Services and the Act on Driving Licences update national regulation to reflect EU regulation. These amendments will contribute, inter alia, to the quality and comparability of professional qualifications and to the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in another Member State. In addition, a change to driving health requirements, independent of the Directive, is proposed, which is expected to improve road safety. Mr President! I dare hope for the government's proposal to be welcomed here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u139	Chairman of the committee, Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u140	Mr President! Indeed, this is a proposal which is strongly related to road safety. This is therefore the implementation of the amendments to the EU Road Professional Qualifications Directive and the Driving Licence Directive, and, as I said, this is intended to reduce traffic incidents and improve road safety, which is very important and to be welcomed. In 2017, the Committee on Transport and Communications issued an opinion on the Government's statement on the proposal for a Directive. In the opinion, we stated that ‘where the amendments to the Directive contribute to the recognition of professional qualifications in other Member States,the need Mr President! As Minister Harakka has pointed out here, the amendments to this EU directive have also added the possibility of online education to a part of professional qualifications training. Unfortunately, for Finland, this means in practice that the possibilities of using online education are limited as to what practices we have been used to. Until now, distance and online education in Finland has been made possible very freely, as previously there was no provision for online education in the Directive. Thus, under exceptional circumstances, this change creates challenges and pressures for education and training providers when the current epidemic of infectious diseases is eventually eradicated and training is resumed. Of course, the majority of the provisions of the directive are very detailed and do not give national discretion, but does the Minister have a view on whether the interest rate can lead to the relaxation of this directive so that, in the future, distance learning at national level can also be given more freely in the future, as has been done in Finland so far? In other words, as has rightly been said, with the exception of some of these acts, Member States must bring into force most of the laws, regulations and provisions necessary to comply with the directive by 23 May at the latest. That is why the Government's proposal last month is now being discussed here in Parliament and we welcome it in the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u141	Mr President! The government proposal concerns the introduction of an EU directive. The Directive harmonises exceptions to professional qualifications. This is good, of course, because everyone should have the same rules of the game. In the same breath, however, one must wonder how these exceptions will be monitored and what the purpose of the legislator is. According to the introduction to the Directive, transport is not the main activity when less than 30% of working time is spent on it. If you think that there are four employees in the workplace without professional qualifications and that each person takes turns carrying out a quarter of the journeys, is this now legally appropriate working time planning, or should the employer have one qualified employee doing all the transports? Mr President! The Directive limits the share of online education to 12 hours in further vocational training. This will make it difficult to organise further training when at least part of the training must be organised in the future other than in front of the screen. In the end, however, automatic renewal of professional qualifications every five years must be called into question. Are we now, without online repetitions, going to put professionals in compulsory first aid training or training courses? A larger picture should wonder whether it makes sense to have, for example, 30 years of work done to learn the same things every five years. Of course, when something genuinely new comes into the industry, it must be trained, but it should not be automatic. Mr President! When it comes to harmonising European rules and laws, we must consider whether drivers in each country are equally qualified. Although the Directive also provides for the content of training, it is nevertheless the responsibility of each individual Member State to organise the training. Because the Finnish truck driver is top of the line. At a time when the international performance of professional qualifications is being made easier, it should also be ensured that drivers from abroad are able to do their job. One further point: the directive prohibits commercial transport in the training of driving licences and professional qualifications. This may have an impact on the organisation of education and, in particular, on its costs. When this is denied, it means that in the future the student will pay, or, depending on the educational institutions, the bill may also fall into society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u142	Mr President! This is a very interesting subject, as a former Minister of Transport, but also as a child of a transport entrepreneur and also as a driver of a lorry. The aim of the Professional Qualifications Directives — which also come before us in the second paragraph of paragraph 7 with regard to health care — is precisely to provide people with qualifications which enable them to move within Europe. That is why we need to match those trainings, we need to match those criteria, we need to get that know-how and we need to ensure them in every country — just as Mr Ronkainen said, we need to make sure in every country, and we need to have a little bit of our own way, but there needs to be something in common. Then you must always remember that when it comes to professional qualifications, it is precisely that formal qualifications that are at stake here. Well, there's another thing. I mean, is there really that kind of expertise? Well, of course we want to believe that if we give a witness to the paw, then surely there will be knowledge there. Now I would like to ask you, Minister: Do you think that this professional qualifications are sufficient in Europe now, or are they even a little over the top? At the time, when I was familiar with these criteria for professional drivers and with everything that needs to be done, all kinds of courses had to be carried out in the same way as formally. Now that I have not dealt with this very issue myself, I ask whether there is any sense in that. When you had to do these things just because you had someone done it, it made no sense to think that for 30 years a person has been driving a truck and a truck and canceled and drove there and here, then you had to sit on a course. How is this now? Then, while the minister is here: In 2018, the driving licence law was renewed and the aim was very good. For example, the fact that it was cheaper to perform it became new ways, and there was also a great deal of simulation teaching, but what do you think, will knowledge remain? After all, the Committee on Transport and Tourism has now made a proposal, quite recently here, to make a report on this matter, and we also have a very competent chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism here, so when will that report come? Now there is quite a lot of criticism about whether or not the driving licence and the driving skills with these specs are now guaranteed, or whether something in that law should be a little bit more screwed up. For example, the officials of the Ministry of Transport and Communications are extremely competent and really think back then about what can be done about it, and made sure that knowledge is preserved, but I would now like to know what your position is at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u143	Minister Harakka, I have some questions for you, so you may answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u144	Mr President! Thank you for the good, multidimensional questions. If I go to this directive first, the time-essential questions were addressed, namely how real this knowledge is and what needs it responds to. There are, of course, two sources of income here, which are partly contradictory. The second is whether it is now guaranteed from the point of view of road safety that drivers from all European countries are sufficiently trained and qualified to transport under all conditions, such as Finnish natural conditions, such as heavy combined vehicles, in very difficult situations. For example, if you think of Road 21, where hundreds of derailments occur each year, that is quite unheard of when you consider how we are used to thinking of Finland as a safe country. Then the other angle of income is indeed how real and beneficial that teaching is and how perhaps as unnecessary requirements may be. In the past, Mr Ronkainen has rightly drawn my attention to the very opportunities that distance and online education could have for these very situations where people would not have to be bothered to come and witness what they know anyway, and that is definitely the direction that needs to be strengthened. In Finland, however, both professionals and amateurs have been well trained to use IT skills, and we must try to ensure that no EU directive turns the clock back here. At the same time, as Mr Risikko has just said, there has also been criticism of the amendment to the driving licence law, where more and more practical driving situations have been replaced by simulations, and this is something that has been very much addressed in a very critical way. It is quite clear that, for example, the future of bad road routes based on associations, which, however, will increase Finnish road safety — as the President of Transport Safety will certainly know — is essential, and I therefore look forward to the results of the follow-up study required by Parliament, which is about to be launched in such a way that it will be completed in the autumn. Now, of course, this corona situation has contributed in such a way that it may distort the material of this follow-up study now, because we have, for example, the circumstances of the car school students and even the amounts that are quite different now than under normal circumstances, and then the conclusions of this follow-up study may be slightly distorted. However, as the father of a car-schooler, I hope that we will come to such conclusions and common conclusions when we jointly assess the results of this study that we can ensure that reason prevails and road safety prevails. Finally, as a reply to the chairman of the committee, I am afraid that this interest rate situation will not affect, for example, the conditions for implementing this directive in a manner which could otherwise be very justified, for example, with regard to the increase in the number of hours of distance learning, which I too believe would be very justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u145	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u146	Mr President! Aviation is an international activity and aviation safety regulation has been largely harmonised by direct EU regulations. A revised Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on common provisions in the field of civil aviation, the so-called EASA Regulation, has entered into force in September 2018. The Regulation modernised the EU legal framework on aviation safety to respond better to the challenges that the aviation industry will face over the next 10 to 15 years. The aim is to maintain a high level of aviation safety and the competitiveness of aviation activities by moving towards risk- and performance-based safety regulation and oversight. The reform of the EASA Regulation broadened its scope. The new regulation will focus in particular on unmanned aircraft. The new EU regulation on the safety of unmanned aviation is comprehensive and it increased significantly compared to the current situation. Regulation on unmanned aviation is mainly included in the Commission's lower-level regulations. These regulations are supposed to be applicable in July this year, but it is possible that the Commission will postpone their entry into force for some months. Mr President! The national legislation proposed in the government proposal is intended to clarify and supplement the EASA Regulation and the EU regulation adopted under it. The proposal is intended to provide for the use of the national margin left to the Member States. Unmanned aviation is divided into three categories in EU regulation on the basis of the risk arising from the operation of the action categories. The open category includes the lowest risk, a specific category of medium risk and a certified category of highest risk, and the proposed national complementary regulation is also based on these ratings. For the first time, EU regulation imposes a minimum age requirement on a remote pilot of an unmanned aircraft. In principle, it is 16 years in the low and medium risk categories. However, it is possible to make limited national derogations to minimum age regulation. The minimum age is therefore proposed for the lowest risk category of 12 years and for the medium risk category of 15 years. However, it is still possible for those younger than these minimum age requirements to engage in aviation activities with the remote controller’s qualified supervisor. It is therefore still possible for all ages to continue their activities in the field of unmanned aviation. Civil liability insurance in aviation is based on the aviation insurance regulation in the EU and national competence falls to the decision on liability insurance for all unmanned aircraft weighing less than 20 kg. In this respect, the proposal proposes that the user should have adequate liability insurance for unmanned aircraft operations in the case of activities other than the lowest risk. National liability insurance rules would follow the same risk-based approach as other non-mannered aviation safety regulations and would safeguard the injured party’s position in the event of damage without unnecessarily increasing the regulatory burden. Mr President! The use of airspace may be restricted or prohibited as provided for in the Aviation Act. As unmanned aviation becomes more common, needs have been identified to limit or prohibit activities on unmanned aircraft above certain areas requiring special protection, such as court buildings. Well, the central point here is that aviation is not restricted beyond what is necessary in order to achieve the objective to be pursued. As unmanned aviation becomes more widespread, it has brought with it a great deal of potential, such as new types of business opportunities, for example in the transport sector and in various imaging services. Now, especially in the corona era, it has been suggested that the use of these drones would increase very much in the world. It is estimated that there is a need to allow unmanned aircraft to fly in certain areas by way of derogation from the requirements imposed on them, e.g. without visual contact. The Government's proposal proposes that the Aviation Act should provide for new unmanned aviation airspace zones based on the EU regulation described above. There would then be two types: restrictive and enabling. Firstly, under the conditions laid down by the law, the Agency could prohibit or restrict unmanned aviation in restricted airspace zones. In addition, the Agency could establish enabling airspace zones where open-class unmanned aviation could deviate safely from the requirements imposed on it. Mr President! Finland has regulated national safety requirements for certain aircraft used in light aviation. The national flexibility of the EASA Regulation will allow this practice to continue. In future, aircraft weighing less than 600 kg, sailplanes and helicopters would be covered by light aircraft. As in other proposals contained in the Government proposal, the aim is to promote the safety and development of aviation activities, both as a hobby and as a business activity. Mr President! The legislative proposals contained in the Government proposal are intended to enter into force at the same time as the lower level of EU regulation on unmanned aviation described above. In this respect, too, I would like to hope that the proposal will be received from Parliament so that we can carry out these important reforms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u147	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the presentation. Security's a big part of this show, too. The proposal therefore complements the provisions of the revised European Union EASA Regulation on the safety of civil aviation at national level. In 2018, the revised EASA Regulation will have a lot of new regulations, in particular on the safety of unmanned aviation. In recent years, unmanned aviation has become more common, and, for example, the flying of multicopters — that is, drones — has become more and more common. That is why it is good that their safety is also being regulated. The present proposal contains a number of legal acts which complement this European basic regulation on civil aviation safety. Aviation is strongly regulated internationally, largely based on international agreements, so there is very little national regulation and room for manoeuvre. However, there is a certain degree of national flexibility and scope for derogations in the EASA Regulation. In the proposal under consideration, it is proposed, inter alia, to provide for age limits for remote pilots of an unmanned aircraft with an age limit of 12 or 15 years, depending on the degree of risk the operations performed as flight operations are calculated. There is no national margin for high-risk operations within the EASA Regulation, but a minimum age of 18 years. I must thank the Minister and the Ministry for their preparation for setting age limits for low- and medium-risk operations in Finland lower than the starting point of the EASA Regulation’s 16-year-olds in the context of national margin. In addition, it should be noted that under the EU Regulation children and young people younger than these age limits can also fly a remote-controlled aircraft under the supervision of a person who meets the requirements of a remote pilot. This is particularly important from the point of view of hobby activities. In addition to these points, I think it is important that the proposal proposes to make full use of the national derogation, so that light aircraft will continue to be regulated in Finland in the Aviation Act and the Transport Services Act, and of course we in the Committee on Transport and Communications will also take this proposal seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u148	Mr President! Indeed, the unmanned aircraft to which the Minister referred have brought great potential. For example, with regard to the service sector or photography, what kind of opportunity has it brought, and just as you referred to the corona time, I have been thinking that not quite yet flying these quarantined commercial bags for over 70-year-olds, at least not very much in that climate, but you never know what it will be like when you need something from a pharmacy or so on. Well, this is what it could be in the future. I very much welcome the fact that, even in this draft law, there are demands which are absolutely necessary for security. As you said, Minister, the airspace can also be restricted to these unmanned aircraft, and even during my own ministerial term in Helsinki, we restricted a few places where these should not be used. Now all I can think of is whether all these people who are enthusiastically going to take drones into the air are aware of the rules in Finland. So the question is: how to ensure that you know how to use it, and how to ensure that they know what our regulations are, and how to monitor this? And when the chairman of the committee is here too, when you go through this, pay attention to that training, training and also to that supervision. When the minister is here, I would like to ask you about this: When it comes to aviation safety and when it was a few years ago that these transponders were discussed, what is the current debate? At the time, there was a hard debate in the EU and we had to be on top of these transponders when we were in the atmosphere, and then some countries used this situation a little, and they were not, and I intervened. Now the question is: has there been a recent debate about keeping these transponders on board, because that is now, if what is aviation safety?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u149	Is the Minister still asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u150	President! Thank you for your comments and questions. I am quite sure that the question raised by Mr Risiko about the way in which the content of this legislation will be told and communicated to the enthusiasts is an absolutely essential and important question, because, quite apart from the fact that we have wanted to guarantee this hobby for the young and early teens who have been enthusiastic about it, there is a small concern in my mind that at that age we may also be excited about the raptures that are then not the safest. In that way, raising awareness of what is permitted and which subjects are things that should not be approached, and in general understanding of what belongs to a person’s privacy are things that must be sharpened. This proposal does not, in itself, take a position on, for example, the activities of unmanned vessels, which may seem to be hindered by the fact that we feel that privacy is being invaded, and that is something that must be taken into account by the increase in the number of drones. Then you asked, Mr Risikko, whether this question of transponders has come up recently, and the answer to it is quite brief: now, in my own short term, there has not once been a debate where I would have come across this, but it is certainly such an important and interesting question that I am looking forward to the moment when I can return to this question with you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u151	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u152	Mr President! A civilised Europe must stick together. When I was in favour of joining the European Union, it was important to me that Europeans should be allowed to study and educate in different countries, that entrepreneurs should be allowed to trade in the European internal market and that we should travel freely and work in accordance with our strengths in this stable Europe of great peace and common values. In January last year, the European Commission has made a formal comment to Finland on the compatibility of Finnish legislation with the provisions of the Professional Qualifications Directive. The note states that Finland has failed to comply with some of the provisions of the Professional Qualifications Directive. The Government's proposal is a response to this remark. That is why the Act on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and the Act on Health Professionals is being amended. The previous law introduces provisions on professional training and the effects of recognition, the latter clarifies the procedure for the recognition of specialist doctors, specialised dentists and specialist nurses. The rules on the equivalence of qualifications in higher education studies carried out abroad will also be clarified. This will help us to be free to study across Europe and to bring diverse knowledge and civilisation to our small country. Finland is a member of the European and Nordic family. Member States shall recognise the training and professional qualifications acquired by a citizen of the Union in another Member State where a Member State requires a professional qualification for access to or pursuit of a regulated profession. A regulated profession shall mean a function the taking up or pursuit of which requires that a person fulfils certain professional qualifications requirements under the law. Recognition confers on citizens of the Union the right to pursue in another Member State the same profession to which they are qualified in their home Member State. We have a number of recognition systems which should be evaluated and developed: a professional experience system, an automatic recognition system and a general recognition system. Mr President! A parliamentary reform group for continuous learning is also working in the middle of the interest rate. These common labour markets and recognitions of Europe and, at the same time, the Nordic countries must also be taken into account in this reform. We must remove barriers to qualifications. Mr Risikko, Chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, spoke highly of the real knowledge and work experience of people from other parts of the world. The national and regional service model for continuous learning, which is under development, must also meet this challenge. We need a good level of precision, conversion and in-service training to ensure that a professional who meets the criteria from elsewhere adapts well to the Finnish working life and is able to get started flexibly. It is important that he also gets on the path and career of continuous learning in his work — the culture that self-development is part of the work and management. I support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u153	Mr President! This is indeed coming to the Committee on Culture and Education, and I would like to point out a little bit about what this is all about. One of the key objectives of the EU is to remove barriers to the free movement of persons and services between Member States. In particular, as regards nationals of Member States, the right to pursue a profession as a self-employed person or as an employed person in a Member State other than that in which they acquired their professional qualifications. In this context, the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU provides, inter alia, for directives on mutual recognition of diplomas, certificates and other evidence of formal qualifications. The Professional Qualifications Directive lays down the rules under which a Member State must identify and recognise the training or professional qualifications acquired by Union citizens in another Member State where a Member State requires the professional qualifications required for access to or pursuit of a regulated profession. A regulated profession shall mean a task for which access to or pursuit of which is subject to the fulfilment by a person of certain professional qualifications under the law. Such recognition confers on a citizen of the Union the right to pursue in the host Member State the same profession to which he is qualified in the home Member State. Yes, this directive is very important, and I personally see that, when it comes to health care professions, which is what has become a bit of a complaint here, this comparability of qualifications and, above all, the comparability of skills is very important, just as Mr Kinnunen spoke very well about it here. It is precisely the quality and effectiveness of health care services and patient safety that are at stake. In my day, when I was the adult education director and principal, I have had a lot of discussions about the fact that when another Member State becomes a person and when I see the certificates that are there and I see what that education has kept in it, it may be very different from what it is in it. It is therefore very important that, for example, the training of doctors and carers has gradually begun within Europe to make these content more uniform, not only because it is not only recognised and recognised that qualifications, the formal qualifications, but also because we really know what they contain. Of course, one might think that medical knowledge must be exactly the same all over the world and in all countries. It should be, but it may have been achieved with very different methods. That is why it is always good to see whether there is something that needs to be supplemented, however, when Finnish legislation comes in — for example, it is such and so is our information systems and everything. In other words, even though we recognise the professional qualifications of another country when it is acquired there, and we recognise and recognise these formal qualifications, we must always see if we have control over the skills needed in Finland. It's the patient's safety. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u154	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u155	Mr President! I seem to be the Parliament’s seedling manager when there are no other speeches to be made. It is very suitable for an old 4H gardener and seedling farmer. I therefore warmly welcome this technical amendment of the law. It is important that we can guarantee the high quality and diseaselessness of the seedlings sold in Finland. It proposes to amend the Law on seedling material, which regulates the production, marketing and import of seedling material of horticultural plants. The purpose of the law supervised by the Finnish Food Agency is to promote the supply of healthy, good quality garden plant material suitable for Finland’s growing conditions. The law also ensures that sufficient information is provided on seedling material of horticultural plants to seedling buyers and other users. The amendment implements the EU Implementing Directive on pests in seeds and other plant reproductive material. Due to the growing distance selling of seedlings and the challenge of controlling distance selling, there is a need to bring in unidentifiable sampling in distance selling. Without identifying themselves, the Authority could order samples of seedlings in remote sales from operators. Indivisibility is important in order to see the same information that consumers can see on the internet subscription page. Once the product has been ordered, the operator is informed that the sample has been ordered for official control. The law also includes the fact that the Finnish Food Authority will carry out the approval and registration of seedling material in the future. The Agency will therefore accept applications and take decisions. This would no longer be the task of the Ely Centre. It is also proposed that the decision taken by automatic data processing and the documents relating to the processing of the matter can be signed by machine in the future. The law would come into force at the end of this month. The additional work created by the law can now be managed with resources. Of course, testing and self-monitoring requirements for plant pests in seedling material may result in a small amount of additional work being done by authorities and laboratories carrying out research. However, the economic impact is limited. I support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u156	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral and the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u157	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the law on police administration. The aim is to change the rules governing the reporting obligation of the police administration and the powers of appointment of the Head of the Police Department to better reflect the strategic and operational steering powers of the Internal Affairs Administration. The proposed law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible. Mr President! The Ministry of the Interior has assessed the effectiveness and effectiveness of the Ministry of the Interior’s performance guidance and also the success of the goals of the establishment of the Police Board. The Ministry has also worked together with the administrative sector on group strategy work and developed strategy processes and the performance management model with a project that has addressed activities and tasks as a whole from strategic management of the Group to operational and tactical activities. In addition, the new civil intelligence legislation, which entered into force on 1 June 2019, also has an impact on the development, monitoring and flow of information, among other things. Mr President! The proposal would implement the objectives of the abovementioned development of the administration by changing the content of the reporting obligation of the police administration and the powers of appointment of the chiefs of the police services provided for by the Law on Police Administration. The aim of the proposal is to contribute to the clarification of the management and control system for police control, information flow and also operational police activities as regards the obligation to notify the police administration and the regulation of the authority of the police chief to appoint a police officer. In particular, the provisions on the obligation to notify would safeguard the necessary control and information rights relating to the performance of ministerial tasks. The obligation to report matters of social importance to the Chief of Police and the Head of the Protection Police would be specified by the law to define the officials of the Ministry of the Interior who should be informed. In addition, information should be provided without prejudice to confidentiality rules. In addition, the law would provide that the Police Government and the Protection Police should inform the Ministry of the Interior of the same information as is now notified to the Government Situation Centre, without prejudice to confidentiality rules. The notification obligation proposed in the proposal may have a minor impact on the tasks and practices of the authorities. The clarifications made in the proposal on the reporting obligation are mainly related to the guidelines for action. The proposed regulation would clarify the relationship of jurisdiction between the authorities, since at the level of the law on the one hand the obligation for the authorities to notify matters of social importance and on the other hand the right of access to information by the Ministry on the other. Furthermore, the proposed regulation can be expected to have a positive impact on the increase in the two-way flow of information. This will help to ensure that the competent authority concerned always has the most up-to-date picture of the situation. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The proposal also proposes to amend the powers of appointment of the Head of the Police Department by transferring the powers of appointment from the Ministry of the Interior to the Police Department, which acts as the Police Department. According to the law in force, the Ministry of the Interior must consult the Chief of Police before appointing the Chief of Police. In addition, other civil servants' acts relating to the powers of appointment, such as the appointment of temporary posts and the granting of leave of absence, are currently divided between the Ministry of the Interior and the Police Government. The aim is to centralise the responsibilities of the Head of the Police Department and the related civil service legal activities as the guiding and supervising body for operational police activities and the Police Board as the Police Office for Police Administrations. A clear concentration of civil servant jurisdiction on one body would facilitate the process and the implementation of supervisory functions. Mr President! A clearly organised division of roles, supervision, governance, information and information will create the conditions for a functioning police administration. The implementation of the obligation to provide information and the powers of appointment contained in the proposal will also create the conditions for better management and guidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u158	Mr President! The proposal would update the police management system and also specify the reporting obligation for the Chief of Police and the Head of Protection Police on matters of social interest. The police government was established in 2010, and before that, the top police chief was in the Ministry of the Interior in the police department. Some of the tasks normally assigned to operational management, such as the powers of appointment, remained in the ministry. The proposal proposes to amend the powers of appointment of the Head of the Police Department by transferring the powers of appointment from the Ministry of the Interior to the Police Administration's Supervisory Authority, which is established. In addition, the law would provide that the Police Government and the Protection Police should inform the Ministry of the Interior of information equivalent to that communicated to the Government Situation Centre, without prejudice to confidentiality rules. The proposal to develop action and clarify the situation can be welcomed and a legislative amendment is necessary. It is important to clarify the obligation to report to the Chief Superintendent and the Head of the Protection Police. The procedure ensures the transfer of a clear, rapid and reliable picture of the situation to the responsible parties. It is important to stress that confidential information is processed only by persons for whom it is necessary for the purposes of their work. This proper information security needs to be firmly adhered to. Mr President! The legal status of the Chief Superintendent of the Police, as the supervisor of all policemen, is in favour of transferring the powers of appointment. Nomination decisions would take place where the background to the decision is certainly best known.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u159	Mr President! The chairman of the committee, Mr Purra, has already said everything I had intended to say. I just want to say to the Minister that this is an excellent law that you are now doing. It is in this law that management, communication and information are now intertwined, clarified and made more transparent by increasing access to information, but it is not forgotten about data protection and its preservation. All this has to do with the power and responsibility that these people, who are now dealing with, must bear, both power and responsibility. This transfer of powers of appointment to the Police Government and the Chief Executive is an excellent thing. At one time, when I was Minister of the Interior, all these things were brought in, and that was when we started to find out what could be done about all this. It is a great thing that this is not just about the powers of appointment, it is about the police administration being passed through. I would like to thank you for taking this into account precisely from the point of view of the police administration and the administration of the protection police, because they are the ones who will then have to do so. It is important that there is such an operator-driven approach in these laws and that these are quite serious situations when it comes to considering who is doing what and its division of labour must be so clear. In this context, I would like to say that you have an excellent ministry, Minister. It's clear, and that's where things will work out. You can thank the ministry officials for me, but also the Police Government and the Protection Police and the Krp for the fine work they have done. Many such things have happened now, considering how much drugs and weapons are moving at the moment, and the corona also brings new dimensions to the work that nothing but strength there for them. They are one of the security providers even in this corona period, and for that reason too there must be clear responsibilities and information and communication to play well. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-14-ps-73.u160	Mr President! I thank the representatives for a constructive, very good debate here, and I am pleased to hear such feedback. This has indeed been under preparation for a long time, and this work to refine the strategy and improve these management systems in general has been carried out for a long time. For that, I would like to thank the previous Ministers of the Interior who have been on top of this work. I agree that the ministry is on top of the last fine ministry and a fine house where things work, and as a minister it is, in a certain way, always easy to trust that the right thing will be done — even though there have been difficult situations in these difficult exceptional circumstances, and then they will be resolved later if there have been any problems. Perhaps that is where this amendment of the law is necessary, because in this area, if, where, those situations come into play very quickly, then all relevant parties must be informed. An example is that the ministry's communications know what's going on when the situation's on. It is one concrete place which must also be kept in the fork constantly. Perhaps at the very heart of this law is the fact that the role of the ministry as a strategic leader, as it were, is now more closely separated from that of a strategic director, and then, at the operational level, that they are not constantly confused in many places as well. Personally, I think it is important for us to be able to make progress on this, and even if, in this exceptional situation, matters relating mainly to corona are now being brought here in the Chamber, thank you for allowing us to deal with this here as well.
