ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 2/2020 vp. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 23 September 2020. In the debate, Sanna Antikainen Jari Ronkainen, supported by Mr Ronkainen, has tabled an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u2	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u3	Mr President! Very briefly: Since I am now chairman of Sitra’s Board of Directors, I would like to say a few words. I have not been involved when this activity report has been completed, as it were, which we now have in the Chamber, but I would like to remind you that Sitra's administration has changed. In the past, we had a system in which it was very closely linked to the banking council, and then Parliament actually felt that Sitra was not adequately supervised. That is why the law has been changed, and now Sitra has the same external government but then the Board of Directors through Parliament as Kela or Yle, for example. This is the major change that has been prepared during the previous period and is now being implemented. In addition, from the previous period, the main themes at that time were the carbon-neutral circular economy, the ability to reform and the new working life and the sustainable economy. Now Sitra is in the process of developing a new strategy to build new priorities, and at the moment it seems that, at least as a new issue, biodiversity will be significantly involved and how we could also make better use of market mechanisms on the nature conservation side than we have done so far. In addition, democracy and inclusion, digitalisation and climate-related and sustainable development issues will be followed. Mr President! These are very brief.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u4	Mr President! Also briefly: As stated in this report, solving complex social problems and clarifying new phenomena are Sitra's special expertise, and it is precisely this kind of expertise and future information that is needed today more than ever when the corona virus shakes our society and other societies and their foundations. I would take this opportunity to take advantage of Mr Filatov's presence here, and I would like to ask: has the new Board of Directors considered in any way yet what role Sitra could play now in the middle of the interest rate?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u5	Let's go in the order of the speaker. — Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u6	Mr President! In this rapidly changing time, I would like to thank Sitra for its valuable work and its approximately 170 employees who work with different projects and projects. In this parliamentary work, it sometimes seems that the time pressures are excessive for many of us and the power is passed on to unexploited preparers, people who have time to prepare, and when Sitra does this, can you say, a cross-cutting overview, explore megatrends, directions, try to publicise them, the importance of its work can only be commended and praised? It's Sitra's special expertise. Such an exceptional time also brings extraordinary phenomena, and one of the phenomena that I have come across is the growing distrust of what citizens show for decision-making and governance. I am getting messages from various conspiracy theories: the 5G network, vaccinations, corona, the EU and many other things that are thought to be conspiracies against the citizens. We have complex problems, but solutions are rarely simple. It is good that these megatrends and entities can be accessed through more extensive personnel and time use. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u7	Mr President! The first thing I want to check is that this mask is a recommendation. I find it very difficult to use it at all, because I am now getting an awful lot of suffocation reflex here. And now I ask whether I can speak without this mask or what the situation is, whether this is an obligation or a recommendation. I shall now ask the President: what is the way in which this is done? [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola :Yes to this recommendation. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u12	Mr President! To this question by Mr Pelkonen, for example, Koronavilku is something Sitra has been working on. This work involved our medical districts together, and these first lunches were purchased there very quickly and agilely as an experiment when the corona came. Perhaps another thing related to this question is that one might think that when Sitra is, it is said, think tank and do tank, an organization of thinking and thinking and thinking and doing, and in that sense it differs from these traditional think tanks, so when one idea is how we can be agile and capable of change, the corona is the most important phenomenon with which we need to be able to change, and we have talked a lot about the new normal. One might think that it is one of the things where this ability to change is needed. But, in the interests of honesty, it must be said that the ability to change and its development is a long process and cannot only be linked to the corona; it is, in general, a characteristic of society that we need to strengthen, but at these times it is extremely important. Perhaps I should also like to emphasise that, alongside sustainable development and diversity and inclusion, one of the things that Sitra has raised strongly is digital democracy. I myself have had the opportunity, before I was on Sitra's board of directors, to participate in one of those experiments that, as it were, watched what information goes where after our digital behaviour, and I think it is something we need to follow closely and be active in, because, for example, the transparency of algorithms and democracy is something that is not right. And if I think of myself then as a part of that experiment, I used very little social media or Internet connections during that time, because I was abroad and the spyware program that was put on our phones, which was following the digital trail, was a little tricky, and despite being minimal, I left 15,000 pages of text to the world and left such reliable pages as VR and elsewhere — some for a really good purpose, but some for a slightly less shady market. And when someone, mainly the United States, uses that information about us and we think about all the online commerce and everything else in the world, we should be better involved in how we use the information we are going to go, but we should also, above all, manage the information from us better, and I think it is one of the important things about digitalisation where Sitra can play a role.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u13	Mr President! Representative Filatov made a good point about this role of Sitra’s new Board of Directors. Sitra is indeed a significant social influence, and the name of Jyrki Katainen — Sitra’s Chief Ombudsman — has not yet been mentioned here, and I must say that I am very pleased with the way in which he has taken over his job. He has been a socially very convincing discussionr within the framework of Sitra. Now, for example, at the Helsinki Ethics 2020 conference, he pointed out in his speech how critical it is for the media and also communication professionals to commit to high ethical standards in their work so that an inclusive and high-quality social debate can continue. He highlighted this whole social media as a new form of social discussion culture and noted that there are many mild phenomena that have led researchers, communication professionals and media representatives to reflect on ethics and trust. It is precisely this type of opening of the debate in this time, in this society, that is very important, and when no one has yet mentioned Jyrki Katai, I would also like to point out that: Sitra is the sum of so many different actors. I myself am Sitra's alumni, i.e. I have once attended a society course organised by Sitra, where there was a hugely interesting program. This is still going on, and this is the way we politicians are being kept on their toes, as it were, in time, and that is really important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u14	Mr President! Representative Filatov spoke about this, could you say, about digital footprints or digital tracking and the use of digital data? It is a very important point of view, who has access to our data, how they can be handled. When you think internationally, the situation is changing very quickly. Some countries have the need and desire to use this information against other countries, against citizens of other countries and against their own citizens. Democracy has progressed a little as in wave movements: there are times when you take more steps forward, such as after World War II, and then you move forward in a calmer way. At the moment, it seems that democracy is actually going backwards globally: we have more countries where human rights, freedom of expression, rights to participate and rights of the media are being restricted, and we are going in the wrong direction, even in Europe and in Europe's neighbourhood. This is a serious problem. It is also a problem in Finland, as this kind of digital influence, social networking is reflected in the desire for people to participate in the debate. If there is a risk of being tempted, tempted, targeted, as it were, by researchers, journalists, experts, politicians, ordinary citizens no longer wanting to take a stand because they feel that it is nothing but trouble for them and, in the worst case scenario, even a threat of violence, or, as recent examples show, direct violence is a real threat in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u15	Mr President! Indeed, this Sitra annual report and financial statements is interesting to read and I think very well prepared. When we talk about Sitra, it is often remembered that there are really large amounts on the balance sheet. The annual budget is also between EUR 30 and 40 million and the market value of investment assets was EUR 933 million at the end of last year. A few years ago, there was a rather critical discussion about Sitra. For example, Eero Heinäluoma of Social Democrats said that Sitra could be run with much less capital, and said that if the state has invested money in something, we should assess where it will bring the best benefit to Finns. Similarly, Elina Lepomäki wondered if this size class was correct. So this critical debate has taken place, and now that Sitra has this board of directors, I hope that it will not be as if it were a bubble that these Boards are easily formed into, so that critical judgment or critical determination to assess will be weakened as to whether all the investments that are being made within Sitra will actually bring the benefits to society and the state that they want. There have also been many descriptions in the past of the fact that there has been quite a lot of money found in certain forms of ancillary activities and, I might say, social relations, there have been great opportunities and trips abroad, and this has also been a source of criticism. In other words, I hope that when Sitra has good goals, good goals, there are many important visions, at the same time it will be kept in mind that certain strict economic thinking and cost-effectiveness and not, as if with this large balance sheet, go on spending money.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u16	Mr President! To this point raised by Mr Räsänen: Sitra is now earning 100 million in this current period, one might say that this is where education research is going to be used through the budget, or will be shared by society. This is the result of the debate that took place last season that, in Sitra, in a certain way, many felt that there was a lazy capital which was not used in the way that it should have been used effectively for the benefit of society as a whole. Well, then, at the same time we have had stock market fluctuations, and we know that they dived quite strongly, when the funding Sitra has also had in use through the funds that came from there was also stalled. Fortunately, however, it has now reached a reasonable level and one might say that this is how the situation is controlled. But what I have had so far, which is short and incomplete, is that Sitra does not currently have such a culture of unreasonableness. Instead, there will always be criticism as to whether or not the right things are being done, whether there are real studies, whether there are real experiments, whether they are investing in the right substance, and I think this is the role of the Board of Directors, that we are involved in what is being done, even though Sitra does have a government with the same resources as limited companies, which is very strong and directs the practical work. The Management Board is, as it were, the next step, but through it, through an active debate. I agree with the thanks that Mr Guzenina has given to the Chief Agent here, that he has been well informed to the Management Board and is prepared to listen to the messages that come from there. We have also had discussions with the government, so that the will and message of Parliament can move forward better through the representatives. And as far as this democracy and, in a way, the digital world are concerned, that is where we really stand. It is not just a question of scoring or bullying and this type of thing, whether people dare to tell their own views and thus participate in discussions, but rather of what kind of marketing we are going to have. It surprised me in that digital survey that, for example, when all of us around the world have gathered that information before it opens up to a person, there is already such an auction of half a blink of an eye for the information that people have — or do not know — but who will get their advertisements on the front page of that magazine, and it may be that the same advertisement will never appear to anyone else. So there is a big auction in between, in a way, the economy plays, but then the information that each of us has is also used. If we think about this, even in political influence, it makes it possible to send different messages to different people without seeing what is being said about something because they only come to individuals. These are, in my opinion, the exact points of the game. In traditional political communication, if someone goes too far across, we will see it, but in this digital world we may not see it, and that is why we need rules of the game.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-09-25-ps-119.u17	The 11th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 29 September 2020. The Council of Presidents proposes that the following procedure be followed for the sole examination of the fifth draft amending budget: The case will begin at 2 p.m. on Tuesday, 29 September 2020. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, a 45-minute debate will follow. After the debate, we shall move on to the general debate, in which the speaking time allocated in advance may not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. The amendments must be submitted to the Central Assembly no later than 12 noon on Tuesday 29 September 2020. The relevant votes will take place on Wednesday 30 September 2020. To the extent that no amendments to the fifth amending budget have been proposed, it is deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
