ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! The electronic weapons license register should be completed in the end. After all, we have a long history of preparing the electronic services of the weapons information system... [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u5	Mr President! Mr Heinonen knows this very well, and he also spoke about it with a very good and well-founded speech, and there is not much to add to it. However, perhaps I should also like to say that shooting, such as hunting and reservist activity, are very important for us Finns, and it is therefore of course important that the regulation that is being made and the administration that is involved in these matters is smooth and reliable and appropriate from the point of view of the citizens. In this respect, I should like not only to endorse these points raised by Mr Heinonen, but also to thank the Administrative Committee for its concerns about the functioning of the administration, but also to thank it for the fact that, in the introduction of this electronic system, the Administrative Committee wishes to take care of it, including in a statement to be made here at second reading, stating that this system must really be in good shape when this new law, Article 25, comes into force, so that the arms enthusiasts and those who use this new system can be confident that their affairs will be properly dealt with, and that the transition will not give rise to any unnecessary confusion and mistrust on such an important issue. In this respect, the Administrative Committee has done a good job and I am sure that we can accept this report together with pleasure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u6	Mr President! Indeed, at that first reading, much was discussed about this speeding up of the electronic licensing process and how many wish that this had already been done. Last autumn I asked Minister of Defence Kaikkonen a written question on the location of the shooting ranges and also on how to secure the training of reservists in various parts of Finland and, of course, sufficient resources for the reservist organisations. We must remember that in Finland, however, our defence relies on this self-regulating training of the reserve, and in that sense a comprehensive network of shooting ranges across Finland is important. Of course, we also have shooting athletes who need these shooting ranges. In many of our municipalities, different environmental standards, noise and so on, have become more common, and some of them may have contributed to the fact that the current firing ranges do not necessarily exist in the future. But as shooting clubs and national defence organizations have pointed out, they are pleased that: The Defence Forces have also opened up their own shooting ranges. If their own needs for use have not been so great and authorised by the authorities in that area, these may also have been opened up for use by gunneries and national defence organisations. It would be hoped that this type of multi-purpose multi-use could be considered at regional level and thus ensured that there really is sufficient use of these shooting ranges for both shooting sports enthusiasts and reservist activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u7	Mr President! At the time, questions relating to firearms legislation were dealt with extensively during my time as Minister of the Interior and this development of the weapons information system was also a project that was launched. After all, weapons licences used to be in the hand-held systems of police services, and it has taken a long time to put them together in electronic systems, and this development of the electronic weapons information system, which is very necessary for all parties involved, has indeed taken a surprisingly long time. I am pleased that the Administrative Committee is clearly very carefully focused on this issue and also unanimously corrected this government proposal by pointing out that this information system for weapons enabling electronic transactions would not be in place during the proposed period of entry into force of the regulation on 1 June 2020, and it was therefore considered appropriate to postpone the start of electronic transactions until the new information system is fully operational. I am a little surprised that the Ministry had not thought this far enough, but it is a good thing that Parliament has done a careful job here, thus ensuring that the practice will then remain in line with these points. This problem is, of course, more broadly linked to state ict projects. In many respects, the timetables that have been allocated to them have failed and have always moved on. Here, too, we see the constant delays in the objectives that have been set.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u8	Mr President! We really had an in-depth debate on this a few days ago, and I am also a member of the Administrative Committee, in which this matter was carefully discussed. I asked for the floor now, and only because I was interested in what this is really all about. As we all know, a digital project or an ict project usually has a subscriber — in this case, it was the Police Board — and the producer — in this case it was the CGI, which is a large international IT building, 78,000 employees worldwide and 3800 people in Finland. I have been talking to both so-called parties, and I had the impression that the problems here were more on the part of the subscriber, the delimiter, when new wishes were always coming. This is complex in such a way that there is an arms trade involved, this is an individual citizen, this is a police officer, this is a lot of people. During that process, new and new objectives and hopes were put forward for this, and it was then discovered that the budgets and timetables set for this were being betrayed, and so to speak, the table was being set clean. Then, because of the new timetables, that thing came back here for us decision-makers and has already come back twice, and if things are really bad, it will come back for the third time — but I am not going to go ahead and anticipate them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u9	Mr President! I myself used to work in the police licensing service to deal with these matters too, and, as Mr Lindén has just mentioned, it is a regrettable fact that, in fact, there were more and more demands from the police board on this issue. Let us hope that this will finally be achieved at the end of this year. That would be desirable, because it is a rather unfortunate situation like this to see that when a good thing is being prepared, then there will be complications. However, I would also like to remind you of the section that, even if we have a well-functioning weapons information system, the police's identity in licensing services is still undersized. If there is no one there to process these information and requests for purchase and procurement permits, and so on, it still slows down gun activity. In this regard, Mr Heinonen mentioned that a gun purchased from a gun shop would not have to be introduced by the police. I do disagree with that. In the same way, I believe it is necessary to introduce a gun purchased from a private company, because, in this presentation, the police are also going through the rules of storage and others regarding this purchased weapon. — Such comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u10	Mr President! It is indeed a matter of amending the Firearms Act and, as I think I said in the referral debate and at first reading, it is regrettable that we are in a situation where this electronic processing does not come into force today. In the Committee on Administration, where this matter was dealt with, the same thing has been said in many other parts of our state's ict solutions: it is important that we know what is ordered so that we can actually get what is ordered. Mr Lindén raised an important point here, which is what is defined. However, when it comes to legislation and defining things for our e-services, the situation is that the purchase of e-service cannot be put forward until legislation has been adopted here. In a way, it brings with it the challenges that, in some cases, legislative claims may be too heavy or too detailed as to what is expected and assumed from these electronic services, whether it is a system of licensing, registration or health care. This is something that we should all pay attention to, and this falls within the responsibility of Minister Paatero in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u11	Mr President! Long-line gun enthusiasts with long-standing experience in the handling and pursuit of weapons have previously criticized the slowness and rigidity of arms licensing processes. The thinning network of police offices also presents its own challenge when applications are submitted and then, of course, after purchase, the weapon must be submitted to ensure that it is the weapon that is subject to the permit. The electronic licence register will promote this electronic service and will certainly speed up and facilitate this process. But like a representative The Niemi raised this point, and we must also ensure that the police have sufficient resources to deal with these arms licence applications.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u12	Mr President! Representative Heinonen gave good feedback from users. For my part, I would have liked to add that, when the reform comes in due course, the interpretation of the law would be the same everywhere in the country, because it is now a matter of not applying for a permit in a particular area, but applying for a permit in another district. The interpretation is different, i.e. that it should also be taken into account. Otherwise, I would feel that the starting point for this reform should be, in addition to facilitating the work and reliability of the authorities, a better service for a legitimate enthusiast. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u13	Mr President! Thus, the current Arms Information System was introduced in 2012 and the decisions produced by the system are still filed in paper form. It is quite true that gun enthusiasts and applicants for licences are sending out this message, that licensing practices vary from one police station to another and have also had a certain degree of inflexibility, to which this electronic system is expected to bring significant relief. The costs of the project, the total costs and also the maintenance costs, have been assessed by the Ministry, but it is clear from the committee's report that it is still uncertain what the final costs will be, provided that this electronic weapons information system is made available. Of course, it is important not only for gun enthusiasts and gun-licensers to be flexible but also for the price not to be unduly high.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u14	The debate will continue. It is not the job of the President of Parliament to rush the representatives, but let me say that if this apparently unanimous law is to come into force on 1 March, it must be brought to an end in this sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u15	Mr President! I do not want to prolong this debate, of course, but I am interested in this debate because, when the municipalities and the state are making information system reforms, they do not want to succeed at a time. It is becoming new information, and this is also a problem in the municipalities. One aspect of this is that there should be very precise information about what the system wants to do and produce. After that, I am sure that this system will also work. In other words, it is worth developing these systems on the whole of the public sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u16	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 4. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on the LiVM 1/2020 vp, it will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreements and then on the legislative proposals at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u17	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-21-ps-11.u18	Mr President! This bill provides that Article 4 of the Road Safety Fee Act is to be interpreted as meaning that: The amount of the road safety charge would be changed to 1,5 % of the premium income. It is proposed to increase the percentage of the road safety charge in order to ensure the financing of statutory road safety activities. According to the law, a tax-like road safety charge is collected from a motor vehicle insurance company, which amounts to 1 % of the premiums written for compulsory motor vehicle insurance. Similarly, the state budget allocates an appropriation to promote road safety. The amount collected as a traffic safety charge has fallen sharply in recent years, by up to a fifth. The aim is to ensure that the money collected as a road safety charge corresponds to the financial need for statutory road safety work. Mr President! The amendments made in 2016 transformed the road safety charge into a parafiscal charge and, accordingly, the budget allocates funding to promote road safety. On the basis of the application for funding, the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency allocates that funding to road safety work. At that time, the government's proposal was based on the fact that it was the continuation of road safety work, which referred to the road safety work of the Finnish Institute of Accident Investigation and the Province of Åland. In the preparation of the Act, it was estimated that payment income would increase. However, the estimate was incorrect and the contribution income from motor insurance has decreased sharply since 2016. As early as 2017, the traffic safety charge based on premium income decreased from 9 million to 7.7 million, and in the 2020 budget, the payment revenue had decreased to 7.3 million. According to preliminary data, the downward trend in payment income continues. However, there has been no reduction in traffic and vehicle numbers and therefore the need for road safety work has not been reduced. In the current situation, road safety charges have not been sufficient to cover the well-established resources needed for statutory road safety work. In the 2019 budget, ministers Orpo and Berner and in the 2020 budget, Ministers Lintilä and Marin increased the allocation for road safety work beyond that collected by the road safety levy. The aim was to keep the appropriation at almost the same level as in previous years. For this understanding of road safety work, thank you to the ministers mentioned above. At the same time, however, costs have increased, so real resources for road safety and accident investigation work have already decreased despite increases. The funding of statutory road safety work cannot depend on the goodwill of key ministers on an annual basis. Security is a fundamental right of citizens, and it also applies to the right to safe movement and transport. Finland has set targets in line with EU policies to improve road safety and reduce the number of people injured and killed in traffic. The main areas of safety concern are people, vehicles and transport infrastructure. All of these must be constantly invested in, and comprehensive, preventive work based on time requirements and phenomena must be ensured. In road transport, the experience of safe mobility belongs to everyone. That is why this bill has been put in place.
