ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 19/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should be repealed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u2	Mr President! This is, in fact, quite a big deal that we are dealing with here. If I were to crystallize it, we are now for the fourth time in these observed exceptional circumstances in strengthening the use of the current section of the Emergency Act once again for a month to come. I do, of course, support this proposal, it is not a question of it, but I think it is quite the right time to start asking whether we should assess whether we still have the conditions that we had at the time when the country was found to be in exceptional circumstances, which then led to the introduction of certain articles of the Emergency Act on 16 and 17 March and the following days. After all, two of the articles introduced at the time have already been completely decommissioned, and there is not once, as I recall, Article 87, which, although it has been in force all the time, an application regulation, so I think that this whole should be considered. After all, this is a matter of the annual holiday law and the employment contract law, and just as the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states, it has been observed that these have been somewhat over-interpreted and used in that hospital and health centre world also as a justification for working time arrangements which do not really originate from this necessity collapsing which is then linked to this corona epidemic. It is extremely important that this is stated in this report, and now that summer has begun and, in my own experience, when summer time, at least in that on-call special medical care, has been a very critical period for years, it is very important to underline the fact that this article is not used there in itself to fill the work shifts and resource deficits that often arise during the summer, but they are the normal ones, if that is the case, for the challenges that have arisen with regard to the availability of healthcare professionals. But my main message was that I think it is about time to assess this whole emergency situation and whether or not it will be the fifth time again in a month's time for these same articles to be extended.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u3	Mr President! After all, the original objective of this Regulation has been to maintain the functioning of the health system during the pandemic. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the validity of this Regulation is 30.6. Until then, there are still grounds, but it drew attention to the fact that the epidemic situation has improved considerably and therefore, as Mr Lindén said, the validity of the directive must be carefully considered in the future. There have been some problems with the application of the regulation across Finland, as the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities pointed out in the opinion. The derogations provided for by the Emergency Act have been used in some health care units that are not related to the treatment of the corona epidemic. The conditions of employment have also been ignored beyond what the Regulation allows, and notice periods have been extended without a clear link to the corona epidemic and without demonstrating the need for extension. Annual holidays have also been postponed or cancelled contrary to the requirements of the Regulation. Such information is worrying and it is imperative that these situations be addressed. Once again, this is not the first time, however many times it may be, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs points out that the powers of the Emergency Act can only be exercised in ways that are necessary to achieve the purpose of the law and in proportion to the objective pursued. In other words, the powers of exception must not be used to eliminate, for example, the shortage of staff due to normal sick leave or under-staffing. In the future, there is a need for clearer guidance and more effective monitoring of the application of competences. In order to improve supervision, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed to clarify the need to provide for the employer's obligation to notify the supervisory authority of the start of the application of the powers of the Emergency Act at the workplace. In addition, the Constitutional Committee proposes that the Government closely monitor the use of the Emergency Act and report to Parliament on the exercise of powers no later than the end of this crisis period. Mr President! This whole issue is big and important because it is a question of fundamental rights for workers. The previous weeks have been a very difficult time for social and health care staff, and the problem has also been, for example, that health and safety authorities have not been able to carry out inspections at the workplace. For example, according to a survey by the Nurses’ Association, there have been a lot of gaps in information and crisis management in the workplace. In times of crisis, it would be particularly important to create a common reality through an open culture of debate and a common understanding of things and to know what is being done and why. This has not always happened. Let us hope that the mistakes we have made and that we want to learn from them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u4	Mr President! This regulation has sought to secure the availability of labour in health care units during this corona crisis, and there have been grounds for this, but this is a good time to question whether it will be necessary in future whether Finland will be in a state of emergency. That is what we are here to decide after the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and this is meant to be in force until 30 June, and you may well ask — at least after that, if the situation remains calm — whether there really is any basis for this. It is worrying that the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities drew attention to the fact that, according to the reports received by the committee, the derogations provided for by the Emergency Act have been used in some health care units not associated with the management of the corona epidemic and that the conditions of employment have also been more widely ignored than the regulation allows. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also drew attention to this information on the abuse of the powers of exception. It should also be very careful in exercising its power in an exceptional state. The Constitutional Affairs Committee drew attention to Article 4 of the Emergency Act, which states that ‘the powers of the law may be exercised only in ways which are necessary to achieve the purpose of the law and in a proper manner to achieve the objective of exercising For example, it is not permissible to use exceptional powers to fill the staff gap resulting from normal sick leave or under-staffing. In other words, now that summer holidays are coming, we must also be very careful to monitor and monitor the correct application of this preparedness law in the workplace, as long as it is in force, and then, of course, the law of normal conditions when this has been abolished. And as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has seen as necessary, it must be dealt with promptly and appropriately, and there must be sufficient guidance in the field and then reporting on how this law has been applied and how it works.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u5	Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has assessed the admissibility of the introduction of the powers provided for in Chapter II of the Emergency Act and the regulations adopted under them from the point of view that maintaining the functioning of the health system during a pandemic is a very strong argument from the point of view of the fundamental rights system, which justifies exceptionally far-reaching action by public authorities, including those lacking in fundamental human rights. In the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the conditions for the application of the implementing regulation are 30.6. Until then, in the light of the explanatory memorandum to the regulation and the other report received by the committee, still exist. However, the committee draws attention to the fact that the epidemic situation has changed since the regulation was adopted. Mr President! However, I find it particularly worrying that, according to the reports received by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, the conditions for using the exemption provisions have not been fully met. The derogations provided for by the Emergency Act have been used in some health care units that are not related to the treatment of the corona epidemic. The conditions of employment have also been ignored beyond what the Regulation allows and the notice periods have been extended without a clear link to the corona epidemic and without demonstrating the need for an extension. Annual holidays have also been postponed and cancelled contrary to the necessity of the Regulation. In its opinion, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities stresses that it is only in situations where it is absolutely necessary to achieve the purpose of the law that the employee's annual leave and working hours should be addressed and that the use should be a last resort for ensuring adequate staff. For example, it is not permissible to use exceptional powers to compensate for staff shortages due to normal sick leave or low personalisation. An adequate number of staff should also be sought under exceptional circumstances, inter alia through the recruitment of alternates and the transfer of staff from one place to another. The Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs consider it essential that the unjustified exercise of the powers of exception be dealt with promptly and appropriately. Adequate and clear guidance should be provided to employers on the use of the derogations provided for by the regulations, highlighting the need for derogations and the need for a last resort to ensure an adequate number of staff. In addition to adequate and appropriate guidance, effective monitoring of the application of the competences of the Emergency Response Act must also be emphasised. I warmly support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee to see whether it is necessary to provide for the employer's obligation to notify:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u6	Mr President! I share these concerns which have been expressed here by the representatives above. Originally, it has been necessary to lay down these exceptional regulations and has been justified. This regulation has also been dealt with unanimously in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and we unanimously accept this here too, but it is worth taking these concerns seriously. Indeed, the epidemic situation has changed quite significantly, and it has changed even since the regulation was adopted, so I hope that the government will monitor the situation and, if necessary, bring a proposal to reverse this if it appears that there is no longer any need for this. In other words, there is also a need for action by the government. I share the same concern, which has been expressed here in all the speeches, that the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities drew attention to the fact that these powers of exception have also been misused and used contrary to purpose. It would certainly also be important to get the right information to all medical districts and health care units. In particular, the phenomenon in the current corona period is that recommendations and guidelines for e.g. interest rate testing or the use of protective materials or also the treatment of risk groups have been applied in different ways in health care units and at local level. Perhaps this too has gone to the point that it may be that there has been an inadvertent or unintentional wrong. Of course, it will be even worse if there has been deliberate wrongdoing. It is important that developments in the epidemic are monitored and conclusions drawn. It is unnecessary to continue any exceptional circumstances if there is no longer any justification for them. So, of course, as soon as possible, we must return to the normal order of things in this respect too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u7	Mr President! As has been said here, the epidemic situation has changed dramatically recently and this has also happened since this regulation was adopted. The necessity of these regulations based on the Emergency Act must be assessed at every level. It has, of course, already been evaluated when exceptional circumstances have been established and it has been evaluated when a further regulation has been adopted, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also drawn attention to this in its ex-post review. The necessary assessment must also be made in the work of the authorities each time the powers are exercised. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities has drawn attention to the fact that not everything has gone right everywhere. Control is needed, and that is the task of the Government. When the epidemic can be prolonged, it is important to move on to drawing up legislation on normal conditions on a temporary or permanent basis. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers it important that the Government regularly monitor and report back to Parliament on the implementation of the Emergency Act. The committee also always needs up-to-date information in order to assess this need. As Mr Räsänen said earlier, exceptional circumstances cannot continue when they are no longer necessary. That is where we are at some point, and that is something we must dare to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u8	Mr President! I wanted to go on with this, actually, when the time ran out. So at this stage, I think it is particularly important that employers be informed that this regulation is not abused. Then the next step, which is very important, is that, now that we assess the possible extension of this regulation from July onwards, it is increasingly necessary to assess, among other things, whether this still fulfils Article 23 of the Constitution, according to which fundamental rights are subject to a requirement for temporary derogations. However, it has been more than three months since July, and in that sense it is particularly important that, next time we consider the possible extension of this regulation, this issue of temporaryity is also being considered in greater detail. This is, in that sense, a very important matter for the nursing staff, who have already had a very heavy spring with the corona, and this is perceived as a form of punishment. I have also received a lot of feedback about the fact that the nursing staff now feel that Finland is being opened at their expense. Restaurants, among others, were now set to open on 1 June, and they feel that this regulation will continue in case, for example, the opening of restaurants would lead to a new increase in epidemics. This is also important for the attractiveness of the care sector in the future. As we all know, it will be more challenging for us to have skilled care staff in the future, and all these things will also have a fundamental impact on the attractiveness of the sector. In that sense, I think it is very important that, when we consider the possible continuation of the regulation, we take a closer look at all these issues and make that decision on the basis of whether it is absolutely essential to continue at this stage from July onwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u9	Mr President! Just a few more things, first of all, to give clear instructions. Indeed, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has repeatedly stressed in its reports and opinions that the guidelines must be clear enough to be respected on an equal footing throughout Finland, and now one can really ask whether the guidelines were clear when, in my opinion, serious errors of this kind have occurred in order to ensure the fundamental rights of workers. Secondly, as regards supervision, I would like to say that it is the health and safety authorities who are responsible for supervision, but I am sure that this task of supervision has not worked as well as it should in this crisis situation, for example, when it has not been possible to carry out these monitoring visits to the workplace. It would now be very important to make health and safety at work as quickly as possible return to normal. However, from the point of view of the follow-up, it would be easier to monitor if we could move forward on the point proposed by the Constitutional Committee that it is necessary to provide for the employer's obligation to notify the supervisory authority of the start of the application of the powers of the Emergency Act at the workplace. When this notification came to the supervisory authority, the supervisory authorities would then be better placed to consider and carry out possible inspections in these working communities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u10	Mr President! I shall now turn to this point raised by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen for lack of guidance. This is very important if you think that we are in an exceptional situation and that we are using a preparedness law that is not familiar: not for the staff there but not for the management either. It would be very important, though, for the Ministry to provide sufficient guidance. Of course there is a need for control, but it is also a fact that the resources for control are quantitative, and the starting point should be that there is sufficient guidance and, therefore, that self-monitoring should ensure that things are carried out as they should be, because the controls are undoubtedly lagging behind, but that too is needed. In other words, when there is an exceptional situation, the guidance must certainly be in line with it, and it seems that it has not been enough. Hopefully now, at least this June, when these regulations are still in force, particular attention will be paid to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u11	Mr President! With regard to this excellent speech by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, I would like to add that it is precisely as it is that both the reports of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the opinions of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities on this matter have clearly highlighted how this regulation should be applied, but for some reason the message has not come to light, could it be said, up to the working units? I have also heard a lot about the fact that the management of the hospital may have been aware of how this regulation is being applied, but unfortunately, at the level of the immediate managers, this has not always gone as it should have been. With regard to supervision, I would like to raise one more point which we in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities have raised, perhaps even as a surprise. In other words, when an opinion was requested from the Regional State Administrative Agency, the Regional State Administrative Agency pointed out in its opinion that they did not have access to the provisions of Articles 93 and 94 of this Emergency Act whether they were also the competent authority to monitor these exemption provisions of the Regulation. It did come as a real surprise to us that the regional government authority has not been aware of whether they are the competent authority to monitor these exemption provisions of the regulation and would think and hope that at least this message has come to light, that they are.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u12	Mr President! Indeed, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities pays particular attention to the importance and shortcomings of guidance and information and requires that employers be given adequate and clear guidance, highlighting this necessity and last resort of the derogations. This, Mr President, tells us how complex and fragmented this system of responsibility and production of our social welfare and health care systems is. So in health care we have a lot of these units that are responsible for the operation, and then in such an exceptional situation, where quite a lot of new information comes into play and that corona situation is sure to scare and change the atmosphere a lot, then perhaps only that information will not get there well enough. Unfortunately, this is not the only thing where information does not get there properly. This has also been seen in these other interest-rate measures, and that is why, of course, we need this social reform, but, in particular, this delivery of guidance and information must be given serious attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u13	Mr President! I decided to take part in this specific discussion of the guidelines. Yesterday I read on the THL website a very detailed and precise set of procedures on how oral health care should be organised now that this epidemic is in the process of dilution. There was an extremely accurate explanation, just in the order in which each part of the protective clothing was clothed and stripped, and everything was very accurate. But now we are dealing with labour regulations, with how things are organised in the workplace, and this is not the case with THL, as we all understand, but with the regional government authority and this is the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, and just as Mr Räsänen has just said, we have a very fragmented field of social and health care. It is roughly divided into four large entities: we have hospital districts, joint municipal boards, then we have municipal basic social and health care, then we have occupational health care and we have a very large private health care sector. Well, these situations have now, of course, been most affected by this municipal system, and I would therefore like to highlight KT, the municipal employers. It should play a special role in issuing these guidelines, including the authorities, of course, but also the KT.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u14	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 20/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should be repealed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u15	Mr President! First of all, I am of course in favour of what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes in its report. But I asked for the floor on this issue because, just as in the case before, this is the fourth time that we are continuing to use the adoption regulation in this respect. This is really big and important. It is difficult to compare things with one another, but I would venture to say that it is perhaps even bigger than the one we have just discussed. We have all seen an exceptional situation in Finland now, and we are, of course, officially in exceptional circumstances. Over the last three months, the number of ter-veyskeskus visits has decreased by 50 per cent, and the number of health centre visits has decreased by 60 per cent. Thousands per hospital, or tens of thousands of us, have reduced hospital visits and, for example, the number of surgical operations. The use of antibiotics — just according to newspaper information — had decreased by half in Finland. We have not seen such changes in the past decades. On the other hand, this tells us that what is called health behavior is very diverse. Let me take one example that has nothing to do with the present. After the well-known Night Band Olli Lindholm died and there was a public perception — which was later corrected and was wrong — that the cause of death had been sleep apnea, and our demand for sleep apnea equipment quadrupled in the hospital district. Now I don't want to belittle these things. This is not really an insignificant issue, but these reductions in treatment are due to four different reasons: certain diseases have actually decreased now, for certain reasons people are afraid to go to treatment, certain treatments have been reduced in the medical districts, and then there is the fourth category that people have not quite understood, the average elderly Finn does not really understand whether he needs urgent or urgent treatment, and all of these together have contributed to this. Now we are in a situation where the care load, the care debt that has been incurred, is extremely high and will certainly go beyond next year, even if private subcontracting is widely used, so that this situation can be closed down. Not everyone may be so familiar with this legislation in practice, but the question is that if a large number of people in the hospital district wait for more than six months to be admitted to treatment, it will result in a fine. I'll be on my second day of work ten years ago. As the CEO of HUS, I received a EUR 2 million penalty payment on my desk, which was linked to the previous turn of the year. Well, that situation could be handled and worked out. So now we have to do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u16	Mr President! According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the municipality's right under the Emergency Act not to temporarily comply with the deadlines for starting the assessment of the need for emergency care and basic social care services can be extended until the end of June. However, the situation has changed a great deal over the last few weeks and therefore the regulation needs to be considered very carefully in the future. As the committee once again states, exceptions to fundamental rights must always be made necessary, and this has not been sufficiently respected everywhere. The interpretations of restrictive measures have varied between municipalities and care communities, and restrictions have also been made in the interests of certainty, even though the Act on Preparedness does not mean that and does not give it the right. There is a need to learn from this, and one key lesson is how important these uniform and clear guidelines are, as mentioned in the previous paragraph. It is worrying that no family carers' holidays have been arranged and no personal assistants or even a personal physiotherapist have been allowed into nursing homes to rehabilitate. As a result, the condition of the inhabitants may have deteriorated considerably. In many municipalities, memory nurses were transferred to other tasks in order to be safe, and memory families were left without support, which delayed diagnosis and treatment. The situation has been very new, and it is understandable in that sense that there have also been excesses. At the beginning of the epidemic, training for new tasks may have required exceptional solutions, but these measures remained in force for too long. Now that we are moving towards a more normal approach, it is important to consider how we can reduce the problems caused by restrictive measures. The challenge is great, for example: According to reports from the Institute of Ages, there has been a significant deterioration in the ability of people over 70 years of age, mental health problems have become more common and feelings of loneliness and purposelessness have increased. It has also been found that the worse the life situation was at the beginning of the epidemic, the greater the deterioration on average. There is now a need for rapid corrective and rehabilitation measures, as studies show that regular and controlled muscle strength training and proper nutrition can also improve the exercise and functional ability of a very elderly person. In addition, I am particularly concerned about family carers, because the fatigue of family members is reflected, for example, in messages to the Family Care Association and the Family Care Associations. 24 hours of work a day without any days off for a long time is unreasonable for anyone. In addition, being in rehab also led to a deterioration in the ability to function and made the work of a family carer much heavier. We have a huge care debt, which will take time to pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u17	Mr President! I am also in favour of this draft decision by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but at the same time I think it would be important for Mr Lindén's idea here to be taken seriously in the government to consider that it is not really going to be the case that we are going to have to live long enough with this exemption law until the end of this year. After all, we are growing in an unprecedented form of care debt, which is going to burden health care for a long time. At the time when this threat of the corona epidemic began to materialise, it was very necessary that cuts and reception times were cancelled and allowed to change the deadlines for urgent care, but it must then be borne in mind that, at the same time, many citizens have withdrawn reception times and time periods on their own, even if these services were arranged for them. In March, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, among other things, instructed that people over 70 years of age should shop, pharmacy and health services only for absolutely necessary reasons, and this has in practice led to many people not having the courage to visit health services that are assigned to them, especially those over 70 years of age and possibly at risk, which is more of a threat and risk to their health than to the safe conduct of these services, and this has also contributed to increasing this care debt. A significant proportion of doctors have decreased their workload. There's been a lot of messages coming out of there that only thumbs have been rolled around at the workplace. Of course, it has grown again in some doctors and medical staff — those who have been particularly involved with these corona measures — but it would be important to get to normal conditions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u18	Mr President! In the early stages of the epidemic, the phase-out of urgent treatment periods was justified by increasing intensive care capacity and the need to mobilise staff elsewhere. Now this regulation is due to continue on 30 June. Until now, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already pointed out in its own opinion that the situation has changed since the adoption of this regulation and underlined the importance of up-to-date information. In the past, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been concerned about the report it has received on the necessity of the fact that, in some municipalities, the time limits for services have differed somewhat in advance. The derogations from the time limits must be justified by the need to ensure social and health care, and the necessity must be considered not only in terms of time but also in terms of substance and regionality. The longer this waiver of the time limits for unsolicited treatments is maintained, the more we will have a therapeutic debt. We have elderly people, mental health customers and oral health care needs that accumulate and are facing us as longer queues and even more difficult illnesses. Of course, it is also particularly worrying that there are some of the potentially progressive diseases, such as cancer diagnosis, which are likely to be delayed, and we will see them later in the receptions. When urgent periods are reduced and cancelled, there are many things that would have been noticed at the reception and led, for example, to a referral to special medical care, which will not be made and many diagnoses will not be confirmed. Of course, it may be that the need has been reduced because people too have clearly focused on what they really need, but there are also those needs that should be able to be addressed at an earlier stage. That is why I would now like to see the government really wondering whether, for example, this regulation could be looked at earlier than at the end of June now in view of the continuation. The fact that we have a deadline in the law and this penalty payment must be dealt with through another law. We cannot keep an exemption law on account of the fact that municipalities do not then have to pay fines. Those fines must take some other route, just as Mr Lindén has pointed out here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u19	Mr President! On the basis of this ex post verification, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that this regulation should not be repealed and I support this proposal. My acquaintance went to the gates of death because he was afraid to go to the hospital in time for treatment. He didn't have a corona. He had a whole other disease. I'm sure he's not the only one, and it's important, as has been said here, that the maintenance debt doesn't increase, because you can also die in line. There are also needs in the social welfare sector that are good to deal with. According to surveys, four fifths of young people find this corona time difficult and in some way distressing. Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen raised the issue of the fatigue of family carers, the interrupted rehabilitation of nursing homes and the absence of support for memory families. He also raised the issue of disability and loneliness among over 70-year-olds. When instructions have been given and the media maintain this continuing state of knowledge, it also causes fears and isolating people in homes. We would need to get closer to the normal one that my older parents, for example, have been living. They have been jogging every day throughout the corona, but not everyone has dared or could have done it. One sentence has been added to this new regulation, which is very important: ‘The obligation to start assessing service needs without delay and may end without undue delay. “ So this one sentence has been added, and it is important, and it is in line with the guidance given in the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which was given earlier. Mr President! There has also been talk of the need for clear instructions. Of course, it is important for the authorities, but the instructions are also read by ordinary citizens, and what an official understands is not necessarily understood by an ordinary citizen. There is a need for plain - language instruction, for translation, so that people are encouraged to seek help when there is a disease, and there is no increase in the debts and queues.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u20	Mr President! The aim must therefore be to bring the basic services in particular back to normal as quickly as possible, because, as has been said here in many speeches, these restrictions on the exemption law have resulted in a huge amount of care and care debts for society. We should now find resources to pay for this debt, otherwise society's expenditure will increase even further, not to mention how inhumane it is if people are forced to lose their ability to function, for example, because they have not been rehabilitated. But I would like to raise one point, an important point that has not yet been mentioned, and that is that this debt would be even greater if the third sector and organisations had not taken up this situation so quickly. I have followed closely the activities of memory associations and family carers' associations, and here I want to publicly thank the associations and organisations for the work they have done during this epidemic. In many associations, support activities for those who need help quickly started online, by telephone and even in the form of writing letters, if it was thought that they could not use the Internet. Organisations in various parts of Finland were also involved in organising food transport and other necessary assistance. Once again, the third sector organisations showed their strength and strength and also their ability to react quickly, and I hope that this work will continue to be supported with sufficient resources, because I believe that this future social reform cannot succeed without good cooperation with the third sector and organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u21	Mr President! Deviating from the time limits for urgent care has been quite justified in this acute situation, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has now also dealt very thoroughly with this extension and I think it is quite right to say that it is worth continuing to do so for the time being. But, Mr President, I would like to say a little about this care debt and to take a position on this aspect of inequality in particular, because this accumulation of care debt is particularly difficult from the point of view of inequality and also a serious place, because we understand very well that there are a lot of people in the public sector who have now missed their treatment or treatment, and now that this acute situation is over, then we have a more burden on the public sector. And I say that, too, this social welfare reform of ours plays an extremely important role in enabling us to find a social and health funding system capable of carrying and enabling equal treatment throughout Finland in our public health sector. These remote receptions that have been introduced in the medical districts have been discussed in public, and this is a great thing that, in this acute situation, the various actors were able to move very quickly also to remote reception and thus enable the necessary care for people to be assessed and received by a doctor or nurse. But there is also this aspect of inequality in this remote reception activity, because not everyone has the same access to digital tools. I hope that this aspect will also be taken into account when assessing these measures taken during the crisis and then assessing how we may develop these systems in the future. It should be noted that studies can now be carried out on those who have been affected by the crisis, which may also provide a means of further learning. Then, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that I fully agree that the guidelines must be clear throughout Finland in relation to reception and treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u22	Mr President! It is, of course, appropriate not to impose fines on medical districts or municipalities if they are faced with an overwhelming medical debt. But it is unacceptable to continue with this regulation if the corona epidemic subsides in such a way that there is no real need for exceptional circumstances. As Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen rightly said, it is necessary to cooperate with the public and private sectors as well as with the third sector in order to pay for this care debt and care debt. I'm gonna bring up oral health care. The private sector has already played an important role in the capital region, for example. Now, during the corona epidemic, only urgent patients have been treated in the public sector and private dentists have been practically unemployed or have been driven down anyway. It is clear that, in this case, quite a care debt is starting to come into play, even in that area of oral care. For example, there, as in the rest of health care, the public sector needs private sector support through commitments and purchasing services in order to resolve this problem and to move forward as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u23	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma mentioned this remote reception here, and that is where I was inspired to speak again, because in my opinion there have also been good things in this unfortunate situation, in this epidemic, and it has also helped us to see things in a new way. I myself have been speaking for years, if not for decades now, in favour of telemedicine and telemedicine, and I have tried to highlight how much potential it can also give in terms of the efficiency of the use of resources. It will continue to do many things very well and effectively, and I see and hope that these new innovations, which have now been put to the test and to do, will continue to develop even after this epidemic, bearing in mind what Mr Heinäluoma has emphasised here, that this digitality is not yet available to everyone. There are currently around one million people in Finland who do not have the opportunity, knowledge, skills, resources, equipment to use these digital systems, but of course they can also be used in healthcare for the internal communication and interaction of professionals. For example, I see a great opportunity to consult a doctor through telemedicine, teletherapy, for example, so that it is not necessary to visit a doctor every time, but that things could be handled so smoothly together. In other words, I would like to take this forward and stress that, when this epidemic is over, we would not leave these technological opportunities untapped either, but would systematically take them forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u24	Mr President! There has also been much discussion here this spring about the fact that different actors have had to react very quickly to this changed situation. This, of course, has also been a challenge in this assessment of care without haste, and the situation of social and health care in general has become difficult. I would like to see that it might also make sense for a broader evaluation to be carried out, a study work — possibly a good mandate for the Audit Committee — which would allow us to consult around Finland and ask what kind of situations have arisen. When, on my own, I have also heard and been contacted about situations in which, in an acute situation, a cancer patient has been told that his cancer treatments will be delayed, or have been directed to cancer treatments on one side of Finland, I hope that there will also be an evaluation of these individual cases in Finland and how many of them have been at the end of the day. It is quite clear that in the case of cancer treatments, for example, it has not been appropriate for them to be delayed for a day or a week, but, in the case of urgent treatments such as these, treatment must be received and there should be no delay in exceptional circumstances, so here too the Audit Committee should receive greetings.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u25	Mr President! Thank you for your greetings to the Audit Committee, of which I am also a member. Representatives Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Heinäluoma took out these remote receptions. For example, in my region, Kanta-Häme Hospital District, good experiences have been gained with mental health customers. Psychiatry’s receptions and psychologist’s receptions have been made work and these have been used in many other areas. Of course, it is important that these good experiences are gathered and used as necessary even after they have returned to normal conditions. Then we have those special areas of health care where teleactivity is practically useless, such as oral health care. Yes, the dentist or dental surgeon or oral hygienist must act right in the patient’s mouth to make those treatments work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u26	Mr President! In this very briefly, I would like to support an in-depth assessment in Finland, and I believe that it will certainly be. The last time we had a situation similar to this was in 2000, when the medical strike lasted five months from the beginning of March until the end of August, and then the care without haste was driven down in the largest emergency hospitals. Acute treatment, or on-call treatment, did go on. As a result, we had 100,000 people in Finland in the autumn of 2000. This later became a matter for Parliament in the following spring, which was then answered. One day I read that answer. Of course, it has been almost 20 years since then, but in a certain way this situation has now been repeated for quite different reasons. These effects are, in fact, very unpredictable and I am not going to anticipate them here at all. Man is so complex and this human community then even more complex, that in some sectors there is actually a kind of healing in this kind of new kind of stress situation. Other sectors then show an increase in the stress load and then perhaps later as an increase in the incidence of disease. This is a very demanding issue to clarify, for example, the overall mortality associated with this corona epidemic. In fact, it may be that the combined effect of many things in March to April in Finland was lower than in the previous year, although in recent years we have had an annual increase in total mortality due to the number of our population and the ageing of our population. These are complex effects, but it is very important that they be clarified. This is a big social impact issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-03-ps-86.u27	Mr President! As Vice-President of the Audit Committee, I would also like to say to Mrs Heinäluoma that we are very happy to take a catch with Mrs Räsänen on this issue in the Audit Committee, because we really need to learn from this epidemic now. Mistakes have been made, we all know that, and mistakes will happen when there is a new situation. But society is really stupid if it does not learn from the mistakes that have now been made, because this is certainly not the last crisis that this society is facing, and that is why we need to prepare more carefully for future crises. We were not prepared for this type of situation as well as we should — or as well as we thought we were. Many things came as complete surprises against us, and this has been a stress test for this society. I believe, however, that we have managed reasonably well just because the citizens have been so alert and have followed the instructions and so on. But we have a lot to learn. I agree that the Audit Committee can be one such entity where such an ex post inspection or a learning place for reflection would be excellent. I think that Mrs Räsänen and I will take this matter forward, because this will then also help us to train and anticipate possible future crises. I hope they will not happen, but there is a very great chance that this will certainly not be the last crisis we are facing.
