ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which other committees may deliver an opinion by 12 May 2020 at the latest. After Mr Kulmun's presentation, 10 minutes, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches that have been requested in advance, with a maximum of 5 minutes of group speeches. There will then be a debate in which I will, as a general rule, give one-minute replies to group speakers, party chairmen, group chairmen and committee members of the Committee on Finance. After about an hour's debate, the other pre-reserved speeches will be taken in the order of the group speeches, with a maximum of 5 minutes. The starting point is that today we will have until 6 p.m. from now on. The debate will continue at a later session today. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u2	Mr President! At the moment, we are in more extreme circumstances than ever after the war years. The crisis deeply affects the everyday lives of ordinary Finnish people and families. Today’s children will remember these experiences in their old age. After the wars, the people built a successful welfare society in Finland, which serves as an example for many other countries. The most important explanation for Finland’s survival can be found in our common value base. We put the common interest ahead of our own. We care about each other. We take care of each other. Our mutual trust is strong. Consensus has been the most important building material in our welfare society. Over the past few weeks, we have shown how fast and effective decision-making can be done if necessary. Now we are faced with a new and serious situation. These strengths of Finnish society help to cope with a new miserable crisis and to rebuild our country after the epidemic has ended. In many ways, we are in a better situation than Finland was after the war years or the recession of my generation in childhood in the 1990s. Still, I can't create a rosey picture of what's coming. We all have tough times ahead of us. In a harsh way, Korona hangs on the foundations of a safe everyday life: health, work and livelihood, and relationships. Mr President! In order to minimise the economic and social impact of Korona, it is essential that we manage the epidemic and return to normal everyday life as soon as possible. Last week, the Ministry of Finance presented its forecast that Finland's economy will fall by 5.5% this year. If the epidemic and the restrictive measures are prolonged, the blow will be even stronger and the recovery will be behind more hard work. We must therefore turn our attention to the exit strategy, which consists of as extensive testing as possible, tracking the disease chains and the most effective isolation of the carriers. At the same time, restrictive measures and their dismantling must be assessed. Mr President! In this acute situation, the main task of the government is to ensure the survival of ordinary Finns in the context of the corona crisis, so that there is no need to compromise health and safety, so that people will have enough work and livelihood in the future. I can assure you that the government has made decisions on the best available information. We're gonna have to go into debt for billions of euros, with a two-digit amount. Borrowing is like a tax passed on to future generations tomorrow. The balance between short- and long-term economic policy measures is therefore necessary in order to safeguard the future of the Finnish welfare society. The Government is committed to sharing the burden of the crisis in a socially, economically just and environmentally sustainable way and fairly between generations. In any case, today’s children will have to bear the cost of ageing the age structure. The process of reducing the long-term balance between government revenue and expenditure will be examined in May in the context of the adoption of the third amending budget for 2020, and will return to this issue in the autumn of the budgetary debate on the overall economic policy framework. In the autumn budget debate, the Government will also review the outlook on the future of the finances of municipalities and in the same context examine the tasks and obligations of municipalities. Mr President! On 16 March, in cooperation with the President of the Republic, the Government has stated that the emergency conditions in the country are covered by the Emergency Act. Therefore, the budgetary plan is not in line with normal practice and there is no spending limits this year. The exceptional circumstances of the EU's Stability and Growth Pact also prevail, which is why this budgetary plan does not include a stability programme. In this situation, we will only be able to make a credible assessment of the achievement of the economic policy objectives in the autumn budget debate. In an exceptional situation, the government has decided to support companies in order to avoid a wave of bankruptcy. Due to the significant uncertainty of the situation and the current exceptional circumstances, it has been decided to classify Finnvera's withdrawal-related expenditure and the granting powers to support small and medium-sized enterprises as a conscious exception to the Government's spending limits rule. Mr President! The goal of the government’s economic policy is to increase people’s well-being. This requires new economic growth, high employment and sustainable public finances. The outlook for the international economy has deteriorated very rapidly in the early part of the year. The outbreak of the corona virus situation has led to a downturn in the international economy, disruption of production and a sharp decline in demand. As a result of the international situation and domestic activities, Finland's economy is shrinking strongly this year. Employment is deteriorating, unemployment and lay-offs are increasing rapidly. The Government is constantly monitoring the economic situation and the achievement of the economic policy objectives and reacts accordingly. The government has decided on extensive measures to safeguard jobs and people's livelihoods and to facilitate the financial situation of companies in difficulties arising from the corona virus. Budgetary automation, i.e. a reduction in tax revenues and an increase in unemployment expenditure, also underpins demand. In addition, the Government will prepare for the State's third draft amending budget in May for targeted, rapid and temporary measures in support of the rapid recovery of the economy, which will continue in line with the economic situation in the coming years. For exceptional cyclical situations, the State spending limits rule includes a mechanism which, if necessary, allows for an increase of one-off expenditure of up to EUR 1 billion and a maximum of EUR 500 million per year. The process of activation of the mechanism of exceptional circumstances has now been agreed to be launched. Mr President! The Government's decisions aim to reduce inequalities and monitor the impact of its measures on income distribution. The Government is also committed to sharing the burden of the crisis in a fair and environmentally sustainable way. In addition to the stimulus measures, it is also necessary to decide on structural measures to restore Finland to a path of sustainable growth, high employment and strong public finances after the crisis. In accordance with the Government Programme, the Government is committed to reviewing the Government Programme measures if their implementation would jeopardise the achievement of the budgetary targets. We must therefore consider whether some of the important reforms that have been agreed should be transferred to the future to wait for better economic times and opportunities. The Government Programme also includes a number of measures to strengthen the sustainability of public finances, such as social and health care reform and other measures to increase the productivity of public administration as well as measures to improve overall economic productivity and employment. The autumn 2020 budget debate outlines the economic policy as a whole and specifies the measures that will strengthen the long-term balance of public finances and employment, taking into account changes in the economic environment. Mr President! I will return to the beginning of my speech. In the past, Finland has risen with hard work and solidarity. Our line is, therefore, that the economy should be in order, that we should overcome unemployment together and that we should take care of the weakest. That is what all of us in this Chamber must rely on — the repair of the corona will oblige us to carry out a common reconstruction mission for years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u3	Mr President! Our solutions over the next few months will depend on the size of the gap between the interest rate crisis and the consequences of our national economy: is it EUR 13 billion or EUR 30 billion? The budgetary plan is bound to be based on uncertainty in an unprecedented world economy discipline. The government’s grips on controlling, limiting and suppressing the pandemic have been certain and prompt. Exemptions from the Emergency Act have been introduced to protect groups at risk and to safeguard the capacity of health care. At the same time, determination must also ensure that the situation does not lead to a wave of bankruptcy and a sharp increase in unemployment. We must work together to ensure that the recession remains in line with more conservative estimates, not horror scenarios. It is now important to minimise first the health and social damage caused by coronavirus pandemic and to take measures to minimise economic shocks and losses. To date, the government has adopted two amending budgets to support jobs and businesses, improve social security networks and improve health resources. In the first wave of business subsidies, examples of carefree distribution of money have emerged, while unemployed and laid-off people are waiting for their daily allowances and small entrepreneurs for rescue measures. Business Finland's allocation criteria need to be corrected as a matter of urgency to focus on employment. In the JTS process and in the government's next additional budget, it is necessary to align the stimulus measures that will enable Finland to recover from the immediate crisis and create sustainable development and growth. The world is different since the pandemic survived. Greater emphasis must be placed on knowledge, community, social security, high employment and fair distribution of income. When we choose a socially, ecologically and economically sustainable path, we will continue our success story as the leading country in the European welfare society. The great goal of this government cooperation has been and must continue to be to increase well-being and reduce inequalities. Mr President! We are living in a situation where all the other European countries are in debt. The situation in Finland is essentially easier than in the recession of the 1990s. Interest rates are low and debt-taking is advantageous for public finances and investment. Now we are building a foundation for future growth: with a smart policy, Finnish society will grow safer, more productive and more hard-working. The lessons of the deep and long recession of the 1990s must be taken into account. Many entrepreneurs were then trapped in a debt trap and problems in households passed from generation to generation. Now the state strongly supports companies and households. Later, we also need a revitalising economic policy, a well-targeted effort to boost employment and growth, such as reconstruction and investment in the fairway. Knownly, municipalities provide most of the services in our welfare state, such as health care, education and care for the elderly. It is therefore vital that we can support them now in the midst of this acute crisis. Deterioration of tax revenue and additional expenditure have led to a narrower local government finances that are already weak. Sustainable solutions must be put in place to replace them. It is impossible to predict all the effects of this crisis on our society. We all live in uncertainty and hope for a better tomorrow. We need a strong united spirit and a common approach to overcoming the crisis. The Finns have shown this laudably. The political opposition has rushed to announce its enthusiasm to rewrite the programme of Prime Minister Marin's government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u8	Honorable Speaker! In general terms, the economy and the international economic outlook: They're very foggy, we know that. All countries revitalize in debt. The printing works are hot. Yet the central banks fear deflation. The ECB’s support programmes in order to save Italy account for unimaginable sums, and this is only the first aid programme. There'll be more. Most of the discussion is about who will be left with Black Pekka and who will pay the bill. The IMF's emergency aid has been applied for by about half of the Member States, and the price of oil has also fallen negative. We live in strange times. Even in strange times, good decisions must be made — in fact, in strange times it is necessary to make good decisions. It may even be that those good decisions can be the weirdest ones. Intelligence and wisdom are required to measure the overall impact of alternatives and decisions. This is a task for politicians. This is the task we have prepared for all the previous years, each in its own way. On central government finances: In this budgetary plan, the calculations have largely been made in such a way that the measures taken to prevent the spread of the epidemic are effective and the duration of the measures is about three months. Needless to say, if the epidemic lasts for six months or longer, all calculations and forecasts will become considerably worse. Among other things, debt in relation to GDP would rise to unsustainable levels at the end of the government term. It is a deceptive notion that we could announce from this Parliament House that society is now open and that citizens can start living their normal lives. A common citizen and his confidence in the use of services are key. We can count on the return of confidence to take about half of the time that the measures actually take. It is essential for central government finances to control the epidemic and restore consumer confidence. We'll both do it. About the local government economy: It was already in bad shape. Of course, the epidemic also weakens the local government economy and, in practice, forces municipalities to reduce their activities and to take other measures to stabilise the economy. In many municipalities these activities would in any case have been carried out over a period of time. Hopefully, the municipalities will take the digital leap forward in this situation, and the state will also support the municipalities in this project. This is also an opportunity for municipalities to develop their own industrial policy. Guarantee liabilities: Finland has considerable guarantee liabilities and they will grow further. These guarantee liabilities may be due, and this must also be prepared. The current budgetary plan does not take into account the fact that, with the new support programmes, Finland will be faced with new guarantees or credit claims, or, if not agreed, losses from past guarantees or loans are likely to arise. So what do you want me to do? New projects should be reserved. In particular, measures that have a negative impact on the local government economy should be stopped. Similarly, extending compulsory education should be left for a later period. On the expenditure side, cuts should be made to non-essential expenditure and, in particular, to projects which increase the outflow of capital from our country. This is the key. If we do not export, then imports must also be curbed and many types of products must be re-produced in Finland, even if they are bulk products. The government should immediately abandon excessive ambition, for example in its climate and immigration policy and development aid. The price tag for these activities is untenable in this situation. On the expenditure side, in such a general way, it would be preferable to be on a relatively narrow line. Several government projects may entail considerably more permanent costs than is foreseen and should therefore be carried out as a liability in this situation. Employment measures must be mobilised. They are necessary in this situation. For leadership: In general, management receives a reasonable salary or reward. The key task is to know things and lead on this basis. Not all of this has been successful. In particular, there have been shortcomings in the knowledge of things. What's going on? In my opinion, management tools are incomplete. There is a lack of an overall view, or no one has it. There is a clear list of tasks by administrative sector and a compilation of these. Finally, the Exit epidemic programme, which is currently being prepared, should in fact be a huge confidence programme on how to restore public and consumer confidence. Life will come back to its end. Perhaps we have a slightly different-looking world after the epidemic, but we will restore trust in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u9	Mr President! "This devil can be won, menurammesen",sanoipresident It's been a few days. It certainly gave faith to many homes in this desperate situation. So far, interest rate measures have been bitten. Finns have followed the restrictions very well, and the number of infections is falling — thanks to everyone in Finland. But there are even more difficult times ahead, there must be wisdom to find a path out of the crisis. The government must therefore be in full swing, because there have been problems. This has been the case in the development of a situation picture, the preparation of measures, the procurement of protective equipment and the organisation of tests. In addition, there have been shortcomings in the flow of information between Parliament and the government, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also drawn attention. There is a genuine concern in Parliament as to whether the corona crisis and public health issues are being handled adequately in the middle of the crisis. We do not want to ask a mid-term question; we want a viable government in Finland. In order for us to be able to work together and decisively without the government—oppositional arrangement and limits in this national emergency, right solutions and cooperation, we need to be clear about the state of affairs, especially with regard to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. It is important because Parliament can count on the ability of the government to act when the more difficult days of the crisis are still ahead. We therefore call on the Prime Minister to report on the management of the corona crisis and on the mistakes made in the political leadership of the STM during this time of the corona crisis. In this context, it is also important to hear the Government's plans for the next steps in crisis management and to discuss them in advance and together. Mr President! In homes, pain grows. One father contacted me when the child’s distance school did not work and the hobbies have stopped. There is a worrying increase in intimate violence in homes. Dozens of entrepreneurs have been in distress when life’s work is going down. The care staff are deeply concerned about their health and well - being. Almost half a million Finns are in negotiations, tens of thousands of companies are on the verge of bankruptcy. We need to get out of the interest-rate crisis as quickly as possible. The social barrier costs Finland approximately EUR 1 billion each week. We need a plan to which the light lies at the end of the tunnel: testing, tracing, isolation, protective equipment and restrictions. All actors in society must also be involved in tackling the corona crisis. This is not exactly what has been done. The government handles the crisis with great political faith. Municipalities and cities, organisations and industry — everything has to be involved, we need all the actors. The budgetary plan is based on a forecast which, in a word, is horrendous to read. I was concerned about the government's economic and employment policy even before the corona crisis, and I am unfortunately even more concerned about it now. The government transferred the long-term financial decisions to the budget debate. It is clear that the government programme must be rewritten there. We now have to take on debt in order to move forward from the acute crisis. However, after this crisis, the distribution of money must end as quickly as it started. The additional expenditure of the obsolete government programme must be forgotten, because there is simply no and will not be growth and property income to finance it. We must not impose any new obligations on the municipalities in this situation. Resuscitation is beneficial when the restrictions have been lifted and people get back to their everyday lives. Those means must be carefully thought out and timed correctly. We cannot therefore take on the disastrous path of the budgetary plan when given. It's up to the government and all of us to change that career. [Interjection from the Socialist Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u10	Mr. Speaker! The most important thing for the city centre has been in this situation, and there is still care for people's health and livelihood. Unfortunately, there have also been casualties, but Finland as a whole has suffered considerably less human losses than many other European countries. Thank you for this, above all, for the care and care professionals and for the restrictions that have been imposed on Finns in their everyday lives. The financial damage will be, and are already massive. That is why society's arrival is also exceptional. We must prevent a large-scale wave of company bankruptcy and the resulting high unemployment. Mr President! The restrictions have plagued people’s daily lives for several weeks, and homes and workplaces will certainly ask when this will end. The Centre considers that decisions in one direction or another must be made on the basis of information and effectiveness, taking into account that the disease is still raging in Finland. The danger is not over. The government will have a meeting on this tomorrow on Wednesday. In any case, human testing and tracing of infections must be substantially increased. The Centre considers that more testing requires cooperation between the public and private sectors and research institutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u16	Mr President! Finns have held out under exceptional circumstances. The epidemic has passed away close to home, the memory - sicknessed one has not held hands for a while, the worry of a child who is doing well at home is great, the uncertainty of livelihood and loans is distressed. The interest epidemic does not treat everyone the same way. Nearly one million people are at risk in Finland and, on the basis of other risk factors, the number of people in risk groups is considerably higher, and age or health in all situations does not protect them from the most serious forms of the disease. A year ago, when we were elected as a Member of Parliament, none of us thought that we would decide on the measures to be taken under exceptional circumstances aimed at guaranteeing the right to health and life. Up to now, Finland has been very successful in limiting the corona epidemic: we are doing well in comparison with intensive care and mortality rates. Restrictions are not the strictest in Europe, because the instructions have been taken seriously and we are taking action in good time. The spring sun may have been outdoors, and the right to learning has not ceased. Mr President! The outlook for public finances and economic forecasts include exceptional global uncertainty. There is only a certain direction: it is everywhere at the moment downwards. Estimates of Finland's decline in GDP this year range from around five to 13 depending on how quickly and by what means the epidemic can be contained. The virus, which is still unknown to man, is spread and transmitted very easily without physical limitations and constitutes economic and health crises that cannot be solved separately. The way we minimize both health and financial harm until the vaccine is introduced is very important. International cooperation with the EU and the World Health Organisation (WHO) in the exploitation of information, the establishment of a strategy and the development of security of supply is important. Solutions have been found, for example, in testing and mobile technology tracking transmission chains, while respecting privacy. Since the European Central Bank, a number of parties have stressed the key role of resuscitation. The debt is at a sustainable level in Finland, but the resources must be invested in the right and profitable way. The government is now increasing spending in order to take care of companies, jobs, health care and municipalities where tax revenues have fallen but investment and service needs continue. Now even cities are suffering, which, under normal conditions, allow tax revenues from the state. Organisations also need support. Confidence and feeling of fairness are the fundamental foundations of society, and this must also be taken into account in the criteria for the distribution of business subsidies. The allocation of aid cannot take place at random or on the basis of the size of the company, nor should it be allocated to companies which make use of tax havens to distribute excessive dividends. But much of the service sectors, for example, need our support. Further diversification of the economic structure is desirable. Not all old success stories are new success stories. We do not have the same Nokia, but we have several promising growth companies. Even after the interest rate crisis, there are sectors with labour shortages. As a small, open, export-driven country, it is particularly important to invest in education and knowledge in Finland. Mr President! Although the corona crisis has dramatically reduced production and consumption, even at the moment we are not on a sustainable path to climate or resource use. The state cannot invest in targets that deepen climate change or undermine biodiversity or the cleanliness of our waters. Nature, forests, lakes and cliffs have shown their uniqueness, as people all over Finland have headed out to find places to breathe in the middle of the crisis. Future generations must also have the same right. Although the recession ahead is serious, it offers an opportunity to look at economic structures from a new perspective. Investments that stimulate the economy must be directed towards sustainable growth-enhancing projects such as passenger rail transport, cycling and walking. In Finland, sustainable mobility within the country and elsewhere in Europe, for example, on a night train, must be promoted. As expenditure increases, it is increasingly important to ensure a broad and sustainable tax base and to shift the focus to the taxation of environmentally harmful activities. Mr President! The interest crisis has shown that research and science are in the interests of society as a whole. [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u17	Mr President! Until the beginning of the year, no one could imagine this situation in which we are now: Finland’s borders are closed, and the majority of people are closed to their homes. Healthcare professionals, institutional administrators, shop staff, people working in transport services and many others are now keeping society at bay, risking their own health. The restrictive measures taken to curb the interest rate epidemic also have a huge impact on the Finnish economy. We already have almost half a million people in the negotiations, and the Ministry of Finance forecast that this year the economy will decline by 5.5% if the restrictions are in force for three months. At present, there is still an exceptionally high degree of uncertainty about interest rates and, at the same time, economic forecasts, and the budgetary plan for 21-24 currently under discussion is of a technical nature. In addition to the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, the measures already decided have been taken into account, but it has not yet been possible to anticipate future policy measures. As stated in the budgetary plan, the government’s decisions on expenditure and revenue in 2020 will be clearly supportive of economic growth. This is very important because only an active and responsible fiscal policy can ensure that the Finnish economy does not get into a negative spiral as a result of this crisis. By supporting people and businesses across the crisis, we can ensure that, following the dismantling of the restrictions, we can quickly achieve a career of favourable economic development and that people have a job to return to. No later than now, the welfare state has demonstrated its need for many people who, under normal circumstances, claim that they do not need or use welfare state services or safety nets for anything. Now the subsidies and services are good enough, and that's a good thing. Hopefully their importance will also be remembered when the crisis is over. The Left Alliance believes it is important to ensure that the fall in the crisis will not be paid in the future for those who are already in the most vulnerable and fragile position in our society. Mr President! After the acute crisis, significant recovery efforts are still needed, the first of which will be seen in the May amending budget. Properly targeted and timely recovery measures can create new jobs while also speeding up the transition towards a carbon-neutral welfare state. At the same time, it is also important to take account of the gender impact of stimulus measures. In the midst of the crisis, it is all the more important to invest in the future and to create a sustainable basis for the Finnish economy. The extension of compulsory education is one of the main objectives of this government and is the most important reform of education policy for decades. The budgetary plan safeguards the financing of the extension of compulsory education, and the interest rate situation underscores the importance of this reform. This is also the opinion of the Teachers' Trade Union Organisation (OAJ) in its opinion. The labour market is undergoing rapid change, and a basic level qualification alone in the labour market is no longer sufficient. Finland will only emerge from this crisis with the help of people who are well-off and highly skilled. In addition, the funding of the management staff of 0.7 of the services of the elderly is now included in the budgetary plan for both the training of local carers and the dimensioning itself. Although the interest rate forces us to re-evaluate many things, it does not change the economic policy objective set out in the Government Programme, which is to increase prosperity. This is not only a choice of values but also a sensible and responsible one, because in the midst of the crisis it is all the more important to build a sustainable future and to strengthen the climate of trust in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u18	Värderade Talman! Det ska sägas genast från början: planen för de offentliga finanserna är krass läsning. Den har uppdaterats nu då samhällsiekon dyker till följd av pågående coronavirusepidemi och rådande undantagsförhållanden i Finland. De reserver vi har stätts nu in för att rädda företag och arbetsplatser och för att stöda permitterade och familer som tvingas reserve borta från jobbet utan lön.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u19	Mr President! This time the report does not contain a real plan for the years to come. The main decision of the spending limits committee was that no decisions are now being taken. On the other hand, this is understandable because the economic outlook is blurry. However, the government will have to make tough decisions in the autumn if the economy is to be managed in a sustainable and fair way for future generations. In dealing with the interest-rate crisis, it is important to put measures in place so that society can be opened up as soon as possible without endangering people's lives and health. The sooner business gets on its feet, the smaller the damage will be. Addressing the acute situation will also have a decisive impact on the economy of the planned years under consideration. Prolonged blockades also increase mental health problems, loneliness among the elderly and child protection problems, as well as the accumulation of other health problems. To prevent the corona epidemic from becoming a long-term open bar to repeated additional billion-dollar debt, strong measures are now needed to overcome it. Public and private sector actors must be linked to increasing the testing capacity and tracing of exposed persons, and the possibility of testing also needs to be better informed and the threshold for testing further reduced. The purchase of protective equipment must be speeded up and equipment distributed to all those in need. Issues of authority of ministries and agencies shall not restrict the use of reason in guidelines relating to protective equipment. Even though mistakes have been made, the government deserves recognition for the fact that, after the initial slowness, we have managed to keep the infection at a manageable level. So far, the capacity for hospital and intensive care has been sufficient. Mr President! However, structural problems affecting public finances, above all the ageing of the population and the decline in labour force, will not disappear during the epidemic. The government's economic policy problems cannot be swept under the non-corrosive. The report notes the need for a permanent reduction in public finances, strengthening the revenue base of public finances and curbing future spending pressures through structural reforms. However, no such action is proposed by the government. I am surprised that a year ago the report contains some entries in a government programme drawn up under completely different circumstances. It would now be necessary to reform the government programme without prejudice and without any charge of authority. Distance education in schools and educational institutions and early childhood education interruptions create an unprecedented need to support children and young people who are leaving school and who are excluded. The resources available are needed for special education and support for education, and we must therefore abandon the ideological and costly proposal to raise the age of compulsory education. The Christian Democratic Parliament considers it important that the improvement in the level of care for the elderly be maintained. Costs must not be left to municipalities. According to the report, the funding is managed through cuts in reimbursements of medicines and medical visits to Kela, digitalisation and more efficient procurement. These measures do not cover costs, but make access to medical services and medicines more difficult. The sale of assets intended to finance the Government’s future investments will be postponed but projects will be promoted. All projects that increase the costs of public administration and businesses must now be reconsidered. For example, the gender-neutral social identity project in the Government Programme, which brings the cost of billions of dollars to businesses and public finances, must be cancelled. [Right : Yes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u20	Mr President, ärade talman! In the near future, large and small solutions will exceptionally shape the conditions under which budgetary plans can be made. We are living in a transformation where state intervention has a greater multiplier effect than normal on the future. I would therefore like to remind you that the most important factor in good public finances is a healthy and effective business field. At the end of the parliamentary term, the Government will not ensure that this basic condition is in order. Individual entrepreneurs, companies employing a few people, growth entrepreneurs are falling as a result of the interest rate. They only get crumbs from the government. Up to now, businesses of all sizes have only been offered difficult loans or product development support. In particular, companies that have had the ability to develop rapidly a suitable sound development project or to buy it from an appropriate consultant have received the latter. The most striking example is certainly a company with a turnover of EUR 1000 per month, a loss of EUR 7000 per year, one employee, and receives EUR 100000. The criteria for allocating development aid have been confusing. For example, subsidies of EUR 100000 will be distributed from the conveyor belt to all types of companies. It has been obtained by companies of one person as well as by companies employing thousands of people. For the first, the support is massive and for the latter far too small. The aid should, of course, be linked to the number of employees, for example. The movement now demands and assumes that the use of these grants of aid to businesses will also be monitored. In particular, if the search is further reduced, accountability and reporting and proper ex post controls are essential for taxpayers' legal protection. It's more than just money. If it seems that some of the people are getting more than the others in this division, it will be left to pruning the people. There will be a cloud of injustice and bitterness around public finances for years, which will not make it so much easier for future budgets to be balanced. For the time being, it seems that the lot of a normal Finnish entrepreneur is empty. The government forced the restaurants to shut down, but it doesn't send the restaurant owners any more than parking tickets. The government did not force the landlords to pay rent discounts, as in Germany. The government refused to pay the salaries of workers under lay-off threat, such as Denmark and the UK. The government did not cut employers' contributions, as in Sweden. The government refused to refund VAT payments or even to abolish them for a moment. We have not seen any measures that would directly help ordinary entrepreneurs who are struggling with rents or other fixed costs. That is exactly the kind of way we need to help small businesses that employ a few people; restaurants, special shops, hotels and other companies in the tourism industry. Public finances rest on the shoulders of such entrepreneurs. A recent survey of industrial investment shows that in any case, a five-digit number of companies will fall in Finland. That is why, right now, we must also have an impact on the ability of their entrepreneurs to continue to provide jobs. In order to avoid the mistakes of the 1990s, we must quickly intervene in bankruptcy law and make it possible for personal bankruptcy to take place. Otherwise, the bill will be huge — we will kill another generation of entrepreneurs. At the same time, we should ensure that foreign investors do not buy out companies that are central to security of supply in Finland cheaply right now. In Sweden, such a law is already planned. Mr President! It should be self-evident, good government, that this is not the time to force expenditure increases in the government programme and in the budgetary plan. For example, it is right now that all those who know something about it and are affected are opposed to extending compulsory education, but the Minister is pushing it forward in a hurry. Instead, we need a clear and ambitious road map up from this swamp. If we just drift forward now, the threat is another lost decade.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u21	Now Minister Kulmuni 3 minutes and Prime Minister Marin 1 minute and Minister Ohio 1 minute. Secretary Ohio will have to leave the session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u22	Mr President! Thank you to the parliamentary groups for your views on the budgetary plan. As has been pointed out in several speeches, in this exceptional situation where our country is, the fact that we are now surviving this virus at the very first stage is also the best way of enabling us to build our economy and this country after that, so all the measures to deal with this virus at the very first moment are also crucial for the budgetary plan and the economy. In these exceptional circumstances, and also because of the number of hours in the day, the government has not been able to go through all the things we will be waiting for in the autumn, and we do not even know exactly how this will all go, so, at this stage, we also have, unfortunately, the misgivings over economic policy that the government must return to these many issues raised by the parliamentary groups. It is quite clear that we will get out of this crisis — which I firmly believe — and we will bring in a draft amending budget in May, in which we will already be able to start the stimulus measures that this country will be able to take, but if this were to be dealt with by increasing money alone, then this would be an easy thing, but it will not solve this once and for all, but we will have to look at what we are leaving for the next generations. All of these will therefore also be important measures for assessing the sustainability of its public finances. And the structures and deep problems of the Finnish economy have not gone anywhere during the corona crisis, but this means that we must work even more to get back to the employment path, that we can raise our employment rate, that we can get to the growth path, that we can get public finances left in strong shape, but that all these things are best served by people following all the guidelines for combating the virus without exception, and that is how we can build up the country. It is quite clear that when rapid action is taken, for which there has been no manual of any kind, which would be the best way forward in this situation, there will certainly also be things that we will have to correct, which we will have to do more. All of these have been able to react with a very rapid cycle, but the reconstruction work that will follow from this corona will be extensive, and that is what we need the whole Parliament, and that is also part of this budgetary plan. Of course, when a large part of the income base disappears, we will also have to assess what we have sufficient resources for, and this major debate on economic policy will continue in May as well as in the autumn budget debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u23	Mr President! In the midst of the crisis, the Government has sought open communication, not only for the citizens, but also for all parliamentary parties. Last week, at a joint information conference with all the parliamentary parties, we were very open about, for example, the supply of protective equipment from the Security of Supply Centre, the situation of domestic production, and above all how the disease is currently progressing in our country. Tomorrow we will again have this parliamentary group together, and it is planned that we will now deal together with those prospects out of this crisis. The Government will be informed of this tomorrow afternoon, and this is also to be done together with all the parliamentary parties. We also wanted the Prime Minister's announcement of crisis management and, in particular, of these protective equipment supplies. There is no reason or will on the part of the government to hide or conceal information from the Parliament. I am sure that this announcement can be made, and I believe that here too, together with the parliamentary parties, we can discuss it, [in the middle: Good! A Constructive Attitude!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u24	Mr President! In the spending limits debate, the government also made important decisions in the area of internal security. Internal security professionals safeguard the daily lives, health and life of each of us, both under normal conditions and now under exceptional circumstances, and the government will, of course, take care of the financial conditions for this important work. EUR 10 million will be increased to the Border Guard to ensure operational performance for the years 21 and 22. The budget for police action will be increased by 10 million for the maintenance of investment-like performance next year, and we will continue to look at resource development in this interest rate situation as well. We need these investments — we need equipment at the same time as we also increase the number of staff, which is certainly a common goal for everyone here. In line with the Government Programme, measures against the shadow economy will also be extended and accelerated to reduce the tax deficit. The Government has also decided to prevent radicalisation through clear budgetary efforts. The operation of the Emergency Response Centre will be secured for the coming years and the system for assisting victims of human trafficking will be resourced. Efforts will also be made to accelerate the dismantling of congestion in the Finnish Immigration Service and the handling of matters in general in the future. [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u25	Now I would ask those who wish to take part in the debate, particularly those who have been identified in the course of the procedure, to make themselves known by pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u26	Mr President! During the day, this has been the subject of a discussion on these corporate subsidies channelled through Business Finland. After all, the situation is that, in a truly spectacular way, the government was able to get into the historic serious situation of entrepreneurs in order to facilitate the distribution of these various support elements, and this was done very quickly without bureaucracy in order to alleviate the rapid crisis. Of course, the result is that this division must be done on the same principles, and that is why these question marks can also be created. It is quite right that Mr Lintilä should now clean out these subsidies, because those subsidies really belong to those companies that suffer from this situation, which are employing and have prospects for the future. There has also been a debate on pay subsidies and other forms of aid. We must remember that in other countries to which Finland is compared there is no lay-off mechanism at all, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u27	Mr. Speaker! This economic crisis is not just a matter of debt. That is probably clear to everyone in reality, but now the government must also say that this is not going to work out.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u30	Mr President! We can start with representative Turtiainen's corporate subsidies for those cuttings. [Laughter] But, Mr President, it is now important that companies are supported because it is part of the strategy for the future. Ensure that healthy businesses do not go down and unemployment increases. At the same time, we must ensure that aid goes to the most vulnerable sectors and businesses. Mr President! During the crisis, we need to be able to look at the acute situation and acute problems, but also further into the future. Finland has always risen from economic crises through education and research. Extending the age of compulsory education is precisely the kind of investment that will support us for decades to come. When asked who the experts who recommend this are, OAJ’s chairman, Olli Lukekainen, has said: ‘OAJ’s vision is clear. Extending compulsory education is the most important reform of education policy for decades. In its relevance, it corresponds to the birth of comprehensive school and polytechnics.’
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u31	Mr President! These budgetary frameworks look very bad and, Mr Government, you cannot be content with them when you act responsibly. According to estimates by the Ministry of Finance, in 24 C.E. they are still well above EUR 9 billion in deficit. They must be changed with decisive and responsible action. One of the key points here is employment and unemployment. It is therefore essential how our Finnish companies and jobs cope with this corona crisis. Every tenth company doesn't even think they're gonna make it through the next month. These companies have lost their total turnover and about one third more than half of their turnover. The key question, therefore, is how to increase investment, employment and growth in the economy. They are the only ones that will enable the public authorities to continue to fulfil their obligations as our population ages. And then the export industry, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u32	Mr President! This corona crisis strikes a severe dent in Finland's economy, as it does in the global economy and in all countries, and it is also justified to be concerned about the sustainability of public finances in the long term. But now the very first and most important thing that affects how we come out of this crisis is how we succeed in the fight against this corona. Whether we succeed in this or not, it is a key factor, and so far it seems that Finland has done well in this regard internationally. Secondly, how we manage to defend jobs, so that lay-offs do not turn into redundancies, and here it is absolutely essential that the aid is targeted correctly. Thirdly, how we succeed next, what is needed for recovery measures. These three factors are crucially determining the challenge ahead of us in the coming years, and that is why we need to focus on them now, and I understand that this is also in the government's priorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u33	Mr President! The Coalition Party has presented a comprehensive test programme to protect the health of our population and save our economy. However, the number of tests lags significantly from what Minister Kiuru has promised weeks ago. Testing has been held back by the fact that the government has not wanted to involve companies, and now all the knowledge that exists in our country must be exploited at the latest. The extension of Kela allowances to corona tests and occupational health care must also be carried out. Is the government aware that this important Kela proposal has been rejected by the Minister of Social Affairs and Health? And I hope that those decisions will not now be based on the incorrect data on the number of tests that Mr Pekonen presented yesterday at Studio A. Indeed, the government must now avoid the mistakes that have been made in the procurement of protective equipment in order to extend testing. Minister Pekonen had all the wrong information about the number of tests. And here I would like to say that the test deficit is still very serious. For example, symptomatic health care personnel still do not
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u36	Mr President! As has been well pointed out here, education and knowledge are essential in coping with this crisis, and it is important that we invest in it. As has been said, we know that there will continue to be work in those areas where higher education is needed, and we have sectors where there is a shortage of labour today. It is extremely important that we invest in these sectors and in new starting places. There is a funny mention in this JTS that industrial restructuring has not treated Finland correctly, but that is entirely up to us how we are able to reform our economic structures all the time. It is also important to separate the tasks of the State and the company, and this may also be reflected in these aid decisions. It is not for the State to distinguish between the winning industries. In particular, the State is responsible for:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u37	Mr President! As stated in the report, there is currently no normal situation in the international economy on which the government programme and its expectations were based. However, the government does not adapt its own political objectives to changed realities. Shrinking tax revenues and growing public expenditure are financed by debt alone. There are certain things that the Finns of Peru would like to ask for. Firstly, we should now put on ice expensive but questionable projects, such as the extension of compulsory education. Secondly, secondary expenditure must be cut. For example, the refugee quota and development aid expenditure are increasing at the same time as public debt explodes. Internal transfers of asylum seekers will continue as if nothing had happened. Thirdly, every effort must be made to promote the employment of laid-off Finns in those sectors where work is required during the crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u38	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Government for your recent comment that you will report to Parliament. I believe that this is an open, good interaction, that you have always been open and willing to engage in dialogue with Parliament in this crisis situation. It is very valuable, and I appreciate this spirit of cooperation, which has often been here. President! It is certainly just as Mr Lindtman said here that one of the most extreme cornerstones of how we succeed in doing this is that we can maintain employment, prevent waves of bankruptcy, and it is therefore important that we have been able to take swift action and also that these measures should be directed at those who need help.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u41	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council! It is not that you are being criticised for the crisis measures, I am sure they have gone that way, but now that we are talking about this budgetary plan, you seem to have little concern about this chilling table 2 here, which tells us our qualified officials' view of the closest five years of national and public finances. This, contrary to what some have said in this Chamber, is not a technical, theoretical calculation that has nothing to do with reality; it is a valid assessment of what lies ahead of the current government decisions, taxes and spending criteria. The worst thing is that we have a deficit of more than 10 billion for municipalities and the state there in 21 years. And in 24 C.E., when we should be strongly recovered from this, how much is there? Well, there's a 10 billion deficit, there's no 10 billion deficit.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u42	Mr President! This spending limits, the budgetary plan was conducted this time in thick fog and in the light and shadow of uncertainty. It is justifiable in my opinion that we should not try to predict the next four years, now that we are in the eye of the crisis, in the eye of the storm, and the future seems to be inconclusive, but many very important decisions were made in this debate on the framework, which was essential to the management of this corona pandemic: we invested in health care, so that there really is enough equipment in care of the elderly for which there has been a problem, helping the municipalities. But, President-in-Office, it is quite clear that tough and difficult decisions will have to be made in the autumn, that these debts will be able to be paid in the future, but we also need investments in knowledge, access, digital connections, self-sufficiency. President! I'd like to hear it now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u43	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, when you look at the figures and the tables of this budgetary plan, the cold sweat is coming up, but, as I would say in general terms, there has been some success. However, I must say that this budgetary plan has been calculated in accordance with its optimistic view. But then it's a happier thing. It's not a May Day yet, but I'm glad these centenarians are out. Now, if a person experiences a sting in his heart, is there any way to return it if not all of this is not used? I'm not asking for myself right now, but I'm almost there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u44	Mr President! Mr Vähämäki spoke in his earlier speech about these liabilities. It is quite right to say that this level of risk in Finland's current export guarantees, for example, has increased, and we must be extremely careful not to add any more guarantees that affect Finland's public finances. When it is a very topical issue in European fields this week, it also appears that this public debate is confusing matters. We are talking about solidarity solutions when we refer to such solidarity ways of participating in the management of the interest rate and other crisis in all EU countries. After all, we have been involved in them, and they generally have that clear maximum country liability, and we must continue to adhere to it, rather than go into such self-debted guarantee models, where the debts of others are transferred indefinitely to other EU countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u45	Mr President! The Christian Democrats have already pointed out in Question Time last week that business subsidies, which are now being distributed through Business Finland and through Ely Centres, are very much directed towards these development projects and not at the major problem that companies face today, namely the acute cash crisis. Now we have read in the papers how business Finland’s support decisions have been leaked to companies that do not seem to need them the most, and also to different positions, business consultants and others. How are you going to go now, Mr Government, to remedy this problem? Because, if we look at the years ahead, we are now taking a lot of money, billions of dollars, debt, and taxpayers' willingness to pay taxes in the coming years will certainly be better, if we know that these subsidies will help them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u46	Let us take this stage of the debate, Mr Orpo, and then the answers of the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u47	Mr President! Thank you to the Prime Minister for taking the opportunity to submit the Prime Minister's announcement. It is important that these issues are dealt with because they have raised so much debate and so that the trust of the STM, which is a key player here, can be restored in order to move forward. And we need to look forward to overcoming the corona crisis. We have to get out of this quickly and get Finland started, otherwise this plan for public finances will become reality, and it will be disastrous for the services, well-being and employment of Finnish people. That is why it needs to be changed. In addition to speed, it is now absolutely essential that this business funding, which is what we are talking about here, saves Finnish jobs. Measures have been taken — no more of them — but what is needed now is direct aid to companies in the simplest way possible, whether it is the refund of VAT at the beginning of the year or the introduction of employers' contributions at the State's expense, whatever. You've got the official machinery. Get that habit quickly. The crisis is severe, and the days are passing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u48	Then Prime Minister Marin. Let us try to speak for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u49	Mr President! For this test, Mr Kurvinen asked about it: the Government's line is quite clear. We want testing to be increased as soon as possible. The test capacity has been achieved very quickly. We are also open to testing not only on the public but also on the private side and through health and safety at work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u53	Mr President! These subsidies from Business Finland seem to be being discussed and on the subject very much, but I would now like to remind you of one thing: Ely and Business Finland went on to do this a month ago, could you say, with crisis funding? Neither has been made for such rapid crisis financing. Both are covered by their own legislation, which has not been adopted in this world. A month ago we had the option of going to the third road, making our own legislation on it, doing it technically. It would have taken months. This was the quickest way to finance companies, most certainly. But we must constantly look at the fact that we are getting closer to what Mr Orpo referred to, we need to get to direct support, and that is why tomorrow's government negotiations will go through, for example, the regulation that we will dissolve the obligation to develop it and that we will be able to focus on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u54	Mr President! I am used to listening in this Chamber to excellent speeches that value schools and education, and that is why it is quite disappointing to hear today that, when we discuss the cancellation of permanent expenditure increases, so many representatives are the first to withdraw the historic contributions to education. What kind of message is this for Finnish young, Finnish children and teachers after this spring has revolutionized their everyday life into a completely new and exceptional position? [TimoHeinonenarvous] It said here that everyone who knows something about it is opposed to this. This reform is strongly supported, among other things, by the Teachers' Trade Union, including secondary student organisations, which have long been campaigning for free for secondary education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u55	Mr President! According to the Government Programme, the taxation of entrepreneurship and business transfers does not increase. Important entrepreneurship incentives, such as entrepreneurship reduction, that have been achieved during the last parliamentary term, will also be maintained. In the current crisis situation and in the future, in order to address its consequences, it is important to reduce the tax burden on entrepreneurs, as far as possible, by facilitating the recovery of businesses from major market failures, reducing bankruptcies and improving employment. In this exceptional situation, a political consensus has been reached on the importance of ensuring the continuity of business and on these support packages, which, however, help employers across the crisis in an absolute majority. It is important to ensure the smoothest possible continuation of operations, as companies are the backbone of our economy. Overall economic impact of support measures and tax reductions
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u56	Mr President! The lack of protective equipment is one important factor which makes it difficult to deal with this very acute situation in order to reduce the damage in the future, and the mess surrounding their acquisition and also the poorly and contradictoryly justified guidelines have made this situation more difficult, and I would like the government to take a more consistent approach to these protective equipment in the future. First of all, we really continue to have messages from hospitals and health care that protective equipment is not enough, and if masks protect or even scarves the elderly or hospital patient who is being treated at home, they must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u57	Värderade Talman! Coronaviruses påverkar de offentliga finanserna kraftigt och negativt. Så länge viruset sprids och vi inte har tillräckligt med info om det finns det behov av begränsningsåtgärder, och det kostar samhället på många sätt. Nu behöver vi framtidssatsningar på forskning, och det är nädvändigt att Finland bidrar finansiellt till vaccinforskningen då vi inte ännu har ett vaccin mot coronaviruses.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u58	Mr President! Personally, I would like to thank the whole government and the Prime Minister for the constructive spirit of cooperation with which this crisis has been dealt with, and at the same time all the Finns in this Chamber deserve to be thanked, both in hospitals, schools, homes and in companies and organisations that lead Finland out of this crisis together, because together we will get through this. While we are fighting the spread of the virus and the wave of bankruptcy, it is important that we also combat the human crisis that can result from such a situation, and that is why it is up to the state to take these attacks on behalf of Finnish people and Finnish companies. As we now focus on dealing with the acute crisis, we are also building steps out of this crisis. What is essential is that this is not done by means of a call for votes, this is done in consultation with experts. Everything is uncertain, everything is changing, but one thing is not changing, and that is what this government's policy is based on: it is based on people's
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u59	Honorable Speaker! In other words, the essential thing for Finland is how we plan to get out of this epidemic. For the sustainability of public finances, this is the most important thing, and we must somehow be able to restore consumer confidence. Our consumer demand is very weak at the moment. We must be able to make credible plans and measures in such a way that the consumer actually has the courage to leave his home and, in my opinion, when, above all, the KD has raised these questions about masks, this is the key issue. In this case, a person dares to leave his home when he wears such masks as these that are often used. Of these Intergovernmental Mask Shops, I would like to ask if VTV could also monitor this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u60	Mr President! The opposition was said to have worked well after the initial slowness, and then it was demanded that we test, trace and isolate, but Finland was able to track these disease chains and isolate them for a very long time, and that was why we had time to put those general restrictions in place. If they had been done before, when the opposition insisted, they would have been of no use, but we would already have a huge amount of bankruptcies in our hands. So this has gone as the textbook says, and we can thank the authorities and the government for it. Now that the capacity has been raised, we can then go back more fully to what was done at first. And contrary to what Mr Sarkomaa said, I understand that companies have been involved all along, but it is not worth buying something for which there has not yet been a need that could not be used. Mr President! After all, Finland was heading towards a 75% employment rate in statistics at a good rate. The opposition may not have noticed that the world has changed completely. In the economic situation that we are in after the crisis, we do not need more supply, but more demand, and that is why it is good,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u61	Mr President! It is important that the government now responds to the question of whether companies are also involved in the extension of testing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u64	Mr President! First of all, the Minister Thank Lintilä for the swift action you have taken to get these clarifications in motion. It is important that we proceed quickly. Give me a hand with this. Then when it comes to this debate about the economy, or especially about compulsory education and this corona crisis, there is a bit of an old saying that some people have used, that it is never worth losing a good crisis. Admit that you were of the opinion, even before this corona crisis, that compulsory education should not be extended;
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u69	President! We must remember that public finances are as big a whole, both municipal and central government finances, and now we really need to calm down. No new decision should be taken now, which will increase the expenditure of municipalities. The local government sector has made a serious request not to bring new obligations and spending targets into this situation when it is completely foggy. Now, if we look at what is being pursued, we are looking for every child to be able to carry through school, and now that we see where we are at the moment, those most vulnerable children, and from the smallest point of view, are in their homes at the moment possibly outside of distance education, possibly in a family with social problems, then the Minister for Education is not now making such decisions here, but using all the resources we have to help those weakest, smallest children, early years, special education, searching youth work
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u70	Mr President! Certainly none of us want to cancel future spending or investment, but it is certainly the case that we must be prepared for the fact that in the autumn we are faced with the fact that we may not be able to afford everything we have planned or sought. It is time to look at it in the autumn, when we have clearly clearer prospects of what the situation is and we can make better decisions. I don't think there's any point in arguing about that right now. What is much more important is that we will be able to get out of this crisis as quickly as possible in normal circumstances. Although the abolition of restrictive measures must always take place on medical grounds, I would also like to stress that the restrictions on fundamental rights cannot, of course, last any longer than is necessary. The side effects of the medicine must never be more serious than the symptoms of its disease. Now we need to focus on this, that we can manage to bring Finland into normal conditions with regard to human health, and then it is time to make decisions about what we can afford.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u71	Irade the Talman! We have now seen in a short time how disastrous the effects on the economy will be, or what the consequences will be for the borders to be closed. We have also seen how dependent we are on foreign labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u74	Mr President! Finland has two simultaneous interdependent crises to resolve. It is a matter of health, and it is an economic issue, and it has become more and more complicated to solve both of these problems in the context of the interest rate. That is why I appreciate the fact that the government introduced a budgetary plan to which it did not think it would put all the solutions and recognise that in the autumn, when we know more about this economic situation and forecasts, we will see the tools used to seek solutions. However, I would like to remind you that the economic recession, the fall in employment and the social recession are all linked together, and when the economy starts to move, then employment will rise, but the social recession will often remain. That is precisely why it is necessary to invest in the future. It is necessary to ensure at least upper secondary education for every young person in Finland, because it is the instrument by which the employment career of the future will be built. We know that the lower the employment rate for the population,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u75	Mr President! No one questions the importance of secondary education; it is now a question of whether the mechanical extension of compulsory education is the right way to increase those qualifications in this situation. The problem is that many people fall off track because of a lack of resources and a lack of resources and problems already accumulated in primary school. The second level, which is free of charge, is, unfortunately, mainly a transfer to people who do not need it when targeted measures are needed specifically for the families and pupils who need it. This is a bit of a zero-sum game.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u76	Mr President! Both Mr Halla-aho and, before that, representatives of Orpo and Sarkomaa have at the same time demanded that permanent expenditure should not be increased, and then they have insisted that instead of extending compulsory schooling age, measures should be targeted at disadvantaged people. In other words, you want to cut the EUR 129 million that is being put away for learning, for permanent expenditure, when you say that there should be no increase in permanent expenditure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u79	Mr President! Of course, education must be invested in, it is the way out of such a crisis. More starting places, early support for children and schoolchildren. The increase in student support is also an effective means of ensuring free upper secondary education for everyone. This is the kind of aid we need. I will return to that question of VAT refund. I saw in Western Finland media that, Minister of Finance Kulmuni, you are ready to support VAT refunds. It would now be interesting to know who, then, in the government is opposed to returning these VAT taxes to businesses at the beginning of the year. And then this restaurant support. It has unanimously said that there will be targeted support for restaurants, and now I ask: when will restaurants and cafés receive this support? And last but not least, one of the biggest bills from this crisis may eventually be a mental bill, and I would like to ask if there would be a place like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u80	Mr President! The Finnish economy will not survive if the Finns do not. This becomes clear when we look at the effects of the recession in the 1990s. We already know that mental health problems are the main cause of disability, which is why investing in mental health services, the well-being of Finns and education is the building of long-term carrying capacity. A young generation cannot support the Finnish economy or pay taxes if the level of education remains low. For example, a young person who is left behind in comprehensive school has a very high probability of becoming unemployed, which is why investing in education is the way out of this. There is no point in contrasting early childhood education with the second degree. We will be able to invest in both, as long as we make the choice of values to invest in education at all. And then, if there is to be more efficiency, it should be applied for somewhere other than education. No one between 16 and 17 years of age has been lost. Although it can be said that it would have been worth investing in early childhood education ten years ago, at the same time we must help those young people who feel that the second level of education is difficult. This is precisely what extending compulsory education means, among other things, that everyone will be provided there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u81	Mr President! There is no prioritising of public expenditure, no provision for the weakening of the euro area and no abandonment of ideological projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u84	Mr. Speaker! We in the central parliamentary group have also wondered where business Finland's business subsidies, interest subsidies, have gone. However, I would like to say that when I asked for that information from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, I noticed that there were well over half, almost two thirds, small subsidies of less than EUR 10,000 for small businesses, for good businesses: roundly speaking, 4,000 out of some 6000 were such subsidies. But the Centre believes that the matter should be clarified and our Minister Lintilä has acted as the Minister should, very carefully and put the reports in motion. We believe that interest rate subsidies should be targeted at companies in which the crisis has actually caused business losses, which employ and have prospects. No corona support should be paid in the drawer. President! I would like to ask, when the Minister for Labour is present, what is the current situation with regard to the need for labour in agriculture? Are the Ministry of Labour and the Minister of Labour now trying in some way to support it in order for Finns to go to work on farms, and is this 1500 seasonal workers enough to deal with the fact that we also have domestic vegetables in the autumn?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u85	Mr President! Here Mr Kurvinen said that there is no point in predicting public finances, and you, Mr Kurvine, do not have to do that when it has been done by qualified officials. [AnttiCall]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u86	Then, Mr Halla-aho, and then we go to the Ministers' answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u87	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate and I will answer a few questions. This VAT refund for the early part of the year, which we have discussed several times in this Chamber, has not been a very quick way of getting it, because it takes about a couple of months for the automation system, but now I have wanted to take it forward by any means.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u92	Mr President! Now we need those construction trees to build a bridge across this dark stream, and many elements are needed. The first element that has been tackled is to support businesses beyond this crisis. As far as restaurant companies are concerned, we have models in preparation and the government will deal with them. The second point is that we must also do everything in our power to prevent these layoffs from becoming redundancies, that is to say, to ensure that people can return to work and get the country back on track and running again. It is equally important that we take care of the human capital that we have in our young people, and that is why I also see, from the point of view of employment, the investment in education and training for young people as vital. All of these must be in the balance and, of course, in economic terms, but there is no economy without human social well-being, and knowledge is a top priority. In this we will shake hands with the Minister for Education to ensure that there is also an investment in knowledge, because it is a way forward. So all these things are being done and done and the government has gone into this work. This morning I had a discussion with the social partners and Finnish entrepreneurs, and we had this debate on how to see and bring forward proposals for the work of Hetemäki, which will also seek ways to overcome this crisis and then build a sustainable future. It will be a long way and certainly not easy, and it will also require a good common vision and all those good ideas and ideas in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u93	Mr President! Mr Adlercreutz's question on the timetable for local government support: The first part was in this amending budget, which provided this temporary aid for tax losses. The second part comes from the third amending budget, which has been allocated aid of more than EUR 1 billion to municipalities through four different elements, namely direct aid to the health care districts, a change in the corporate tax rate rate, an increase in discretionary state aid and, most importantly, a normal state aid system — but the directing of the system of state subsidies to the extent that it will be on a per capita basis or on the basis of the loss of municipal taxes are currently being calculated. Thirdly, in August, we will see whether these means are sufficient or whether there is still a need for more. I am thinking of the amending budget, but also of the budget for the next year. These timetables go towards this support for municipalities, which are directly linked to increases in interest rate costs or, on the other hand, to loss of income. Then we still have a big question to deal with about the finances of the whole of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u94	Then there is Minister Andersson, and then there is the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u95	Mr President! Good opposition! I have now heard quite a few speeches here, where it has been said that there should be no permanent increases in expenditure in this situation. This has been repeated many times. This statement would mean that there would be no money to extend compulsory education, but there would be no money anywhere else in the education system. So this would mean that this historic extra effort, which is now being made in the education system, despite the crisis conditions, will not be done at all. And I am surprised that this training effort is the first to be cancelled.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u98	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u99	Mr President! As has been said here before, I think it has been perfectly right for the government to have gone right ahead of health in this. It is the only option and, of course, it must be seen in this situation that when it comes to low interest rates, it is justifiable and good and important in any case that we can make these investments, both within the framework of the promotion of health care and then in the overall context of major efforts to prevent bankruptcy and to alleviate the human need. As has also been said here, all the continuation will depend in a significant way on how we will succeed in maintaining employment, in combating bankruptcy, in creating growth, in all this wise economic reconstruction. Although, of course, the economic outlook is frightening in any case, I believe that, with good consideration, we can take these measures either in a wasteful and inefficient way or in a more efficient way, and that the results are not only employmentable but also fair. They're important, big principles. I am sure that the question will then arise as to how, for example, this fully needed support can be directed at businesses as effectively as possible and at the time as appropriate, so that it is precisely those who need this support who receive it. As far as taxation is concerned, we already have an element which is currently under discussion here in Parliament, namely this possibility of tax deferral through payment arrangements, which is an extremely important measure, and that is what we have been taking forward here. We will certainly be able to continue to do so. After all, Parliament is in the process of accepting this impetus, which requires that this element should be further worked on, and it will certainly also be accompanied by a debate on this possible refund of VAT, as it were, in the form of a tax debt. If that is the way in which the cash crisis can be managed quickly, that is good, but then the same criterion applies to this too, in my opinion, that how fiscal means are used so that they are directed specifically at the person who needs it, and not at the general level. VAT is also paid a couple of billions a month, and of course it is clear that such tax revenues cannot be permanently excluded from the use of society, municipalities, for example, when, at the same time, you have to take care of people's health, care for the elderly, education for children, all of this. In this equation, you have to be quite wise to build these things all in all. So, in this regard too, the debate which, unfortunately, rose during the weekend through this Business Finland example, is not conducive to supporting this way of thinking, because I can well imagine what it feels like to a person who has been laid off, unemployed, afraid of his job, care staff who, at the risk of their own health, are fighting every day for the destruction of this virus — it does not seem good to me that there is also some of this kind of aid of EUR 100,000 in the distribution of funds in a situation where we cannot be sure that it will be targeted precisely at the number of people most in need, so that we can be sure that the small entrepreneur with the cashier empty and the question marks in the air will not be able to get these subsidies. That is why it was important that Minister Lintilä, for example, just now confirmed that he will quickly intervene. It is absolutely necessary. I do not think that anything should be paid for there now until we look at these criteria again, and that is an important point. It is a good thing that this has already been announced by the government today as a whole. President! It is also important to rebuild how we build the future justly from now on. The place for these value choices will also be in the budget debate in the autumn. Now that I have listened to this debate, I would like to say that it should not be the case, ladies and gentlemen, that there will then be opposition to these contributions to the future for reasons of ideological opposition. Because it was the case that the assembly opposed the extension of compulsory education or the composition of carers even before the crisis, and now we are taking advantage of this crisis in order to resist these additional contributions to education. Yes, I think Mr Andersson quite rightly said that if it were said here that there was no permanent additional investment in education, that would be a cut in power here. This is not the line I wish the government would go, and I don't think the government's going to go for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u100	In the meantime, two things. There will be two sessions today. This matter will now be resumed at the first sitting until 6 p.m., followed by other matters on the agenda. After their discussion, we will take a short break and take the second part-session of the day, at the beginning of which there will be reports, one of which will require a vote, and after that we will continue this debate on the spending limits. Secondly, the President-in-Office of the Council today concluded that we are going to follow the three-minute limit for the part of the speeches that took place on Thursday instead of seven minutes. If you do not have anything to say, you can always ask for another speech. — Let us return to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u101	Mr. Speaker! Red-green policy appears to be more important in government activity than balancing the economy. Unfortunately, it has also become clear from the speeches made here today that even in the event of a crisis, we are not going to agree to remove those red-green glasses. The budgetary plan now under discussion includes significant appropriations to promote carbon neutrality in Finland, for example. The Government is committed to acting in a way that would make Finland carbon neutral in 2035. Similarly, Sweden's carbon neutrality target is 2045 ten years later and in Germany the carbon neutrality target is 2050. I can't believe that even in the midst of the corona crisis, the government will continue to prepare a series of measures which will only now seek to find new emission reductions and speed up existing ones. This carbon neutrality is being budgeted for billions of euros each year. The Government has also decided to set up a climate fund, which will focus on combating climate change, among other things. We are currently in the process of preparing the matter and will therefore continue to do so, in spite of the interest rate situation, as if this whole corona crisis did not exist. Of course, the same criticism is directed at the European Union, where the whole Green Deal continues to live, and that is what this climate fund is about. I also noted that this budgetary plan includes support for public transport. The Finns of Peru think, however, that now that the corona virus is in existence and when it is spread, we urgently need to understand the importance of private motoring. After all, single-caring is now a health act in the years to come. It avoids more corona infections compared to putting people in public transport. In Finland, measures must be taken without delay to reduce the cost of private motoring. In practice, reducing fuel taxation would be a good thing. In addition, these planned fuel tax increases should therefore be withdrawn. In the economic policy of Finns, Finnish work and enterprise come first. In order to recover from the crisis, Finland must think first of all of its own economic and national interests. Our job is to help companies overcome the crisis and save Finnish jobs. It does not mean endless debt-taking, but must target those companies whose customer numbers have been significantly reduced due to these restrictions and quarantines, or companies whose activities have been completely stagnated. From an economic point of view and in order to recover from the crisis, it is essential that, as the necessary expenditure increases and economic growth is halted, the State should also be able to reduce other expenditure. This has not been done, however, and expenditure increases are constantly being made with new debt money. The True Finns feel that it is all the more urgent now to cut back on development aid, economically harmful immigration or over-ambitious climate action, i.e. we call for prioritisation in what is considered to be the most important for taxpayers. It is now up to politicians to continue to act as enablers for economic growth and business activity. Thus, companies will be helped to overcome the crisis, and after the crisis, on the other hand, when the crisis continues for a long time, they will be helped to promote Finnish competitiveness, for example with cheaper electricity and fuel. However, in the longer term, only productive work in Finland, especially the export industry, will generate economic growth. Continuous resuscitation and living as a debt do not generate economic growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u102	Mr President! It's a bit of a shame that my Finance Minister, Mr. Kulmun, has left here. I had hoped that this discussion could take place in his presence. But indeed, we have this document at hand, which describes the state of Finland's public finances and finances for five years to come, and that is appalling and shows the enormous need to strengthen public finances that we have every year from now on. In that respect, this debate is also depressing in such a way that there seems to be little understanding of the nature of this problem in this Chamber. After all, we were not on a balanced economic path and a balanced fiscal path before this corona crisis. Lars Calmfors, a professor at the University of Stockholm, a long-standing member of the evaluation council there, and also familiar with Finnish economic policy, wrote an own-initiative article at Dagens Nyheter, in which he was rather amazed to see how weak the prospects of Finland's public finances are and how weak the policy of the current government is in this regard, and here I do not think it would be a big surprise if... I would like to point out to the government that the credibility of your government in this Chamber is not so great in my eyes. Earlier in this sitting, Prime Minister Marin spoke about how to take further decisions to strengthen public finances, as the mist fades and is more known, but that was the situation we had last summer and autumn when the government had been appointed. At the time, there was nothing in the forecasts other than a steady high economic cycle or normal use of resources, and no decisions were taken to strengthen public finances, even though these same sustainability deficit problems were well known at the time. At that time, everything was postponed to a number of vague working groups, which have since not been heard, the working groups of the social partners — whether they were seven, there were dozens of people, and they have produced a description of the current situation, I think. And this sustainability gap — these problems of public finances, which daily appeared in the lives of Finns before this crisis — has not disappeared. We have misery in child welfare, we lack money from the police, doctors, the judiciary, all over the place. This decline in our public sector is beginning to be reflected in ageing, and nothing has been done about it. Here Mr Lindtman spoke about how the cornerstone of all this, the cornerstone of dealing with the sustainability gap, is that this crisis is being successfully overcome. Well, it certainly isn't. There is always a way out of this and its impact on the sustainability gap is limited, but it will still exacerbate these serious problems for us. Think of it, ladies and gentlemen, this figure, 10 billion. It is about the need for adaptation that we have, and perhaps a little more than that, if we still think about the responsibilities of the 20th century, which come with ageing and health care and care. It is therefore the need for adaptation that we will be facing in the next few decades, and there will be an argument here in the Chamber about some amount of tens of millions or 100 million. I think it is a direct mockery of the Finnish people. The 10 billion, how should we approach it? Public finances can be strengthened through structural labour market reforms, tax increases or expenditure savings. Clearly, none of these things in this Chamber really want to talk about, even though these numbers here scream like Abel's blood from the ground to us, who are responsible decision-makers. I have also heard it said that all euro countries have such problems. Well, yes, but it will be seen, unfortunately, that the other Nordic countries and Germany are losing their heels much faster because they were in a much stronger budgetary situation in the first place. Unfortunately, as far as I can estimate, Finland is slowly running into a weak euroland. This development is only just beginning, but since we have the inability to carry out adequate labour market reforms and a sufficiently robust budgetary policy, we already have a weakened creditworthiness. In this respect, we are no longer part of the Nordic family, and we are slowly sinking deeper and deeper. This is understood by reasonable people throughout society. Unfortunately, here, Secretary of Education Andersson is not... [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u105	In this debate there is this special rule on this speed, that is, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u106	Mr President! At this stage, it is very clear to all of us that the global crisis caused by the corona virus has led to unprecedented economic challenges worldwide. Small export-driven economies such as Finland, which have benefited from open trade and globalisation, are particularly affected by market disturbances resulting from this situation. The Korona virus has closed our borders and has severely restricted the movement of people. Goods are still allowed to move, but the situation affects in many ways the logistics chains through which we are used to international trade, people, businesses and countries are forced to isolate themselves. This underlines the need for self-sufficiency and security of supply. We welcome the fact that we have maintained our own production in agriculture and have kept our security of supply at a very good level. Unfortunately, with regard to the protective equipment used in health care, our good pandemic plan as such has not been followed, and that is why we are in a weak position in this sector because of the huge surge in global demand. Mr President! I did not get the floor in the recent debate when Mr Kurvinen asked about the seasonal employment situation in agriculture from Minister Haatainen. Well, Mr Kurvinen did not receive an answer from Minister Haatainen, no answer whatsoever to his question. For my part, there is some experience of these agricultural issues and also of this need for foreign seasonal labour: I absolutely believe that this 1500, which has now been decided, will by no means suffice if we are to harvest that crop of strawberry, berries, vegetables, root vegetables, peas and so on, next summer, and first of all it should be planted or planted, grated and so on. Yes, we need almost the same number of these seasonal workers from abroad. And now that these border barriers do not exist, at least as far as Ukraine is concerned, I think that a sensible nation will take care of the work of this growing season. It is clear that the Finnish workforce is happy to be used. However, there are many obstacles. Some have a strong economic incentive not to do these jobs: when unemployment benefits get more than work, it is clear that a reasonable person does not work then. And if the taxation of pensions increases when you do these fields — many pensioners would be willing — then that too is an economic incentive to intervene. And then there are many who are unable to do this heavy work. But then perhaps a separate study should be done that if there is no such lack of financial incentive and if there is ability to work, then why would such a person not do if he has no other job. Mr President! The picture of the Finnish economy for 2021 to 2024 is very much dependent on the depth and length of the economic dive caused by coronavirus pandemic. The forecasts provided in the Financial Review published by the Ministry of Finance on 16 April 2020 are based on an estimate of the continuation of exceptional measures for a period of three months. Of course, we have no guarantee as to how long exceptional measures are actually needed. In Finland, the epidemic has clearly not spread nearly as fast as in the worst epidemic regions worldwide, due to the relatively early introduction of restrictive measures, our few settlements and our lesser social contacts. This means that when restrictions are lifted, there is a clear risk that infections will turn to sharp growth. Furthermore, it is reasonable to assume that the disease will interfere with us by heart until the cures develop decisively. We must therefore be prepared that coronavirus will require periodic restrictions in our society for a very long time to come if we are to actively slow down its spread. Of course, these restrictions have an expensive economic cost, so it is a question of balancing between bad alternatives. It is estimated that the current restrictions will cost about a billion dollars a week, so we should do everything we can.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u107	Mr President! It's always hard to predict the future. Yet such a plan has never been discussed in such a state of uncertainty. Perhaps it is not worth twisting the figures of the budgetary plan when the figures, or even the signs, are now difficult to estimate. As usual, the plan has a sensitivity assessment, but even in that slow and rapid scenario, the difference in GDP in 2024 is a few per cent. When you look at the world situation now, you can see that possible futures are not necessarily limited to this fork. Significant uncertainty about the future is caused by at least the following factors: First thing to do is fold the corona. Will it be possible to manage the epidemic in such a way that as far as possible large-scale mass restrictions can be achieved through targeted isolation measures based on extensive monitoring, tracing and testing? And if we succeed, what are the consequences of the fact that, for example, our neighbour, Sweden, is not even trying to do this and, in many countries, the scale of the epidemic is already quite different from ours? Second, EU and euro area solutions. Will it be possible to respond jointly to economic discipline in a spirit of solidarity, and will the Member States and the Community also be prepared and able to take advantage of different radical solutions without prejudice? It will be difficult for the Finnish economy to recover if, by the way, Europe plows deep. Third, the United States, China, Russia, developing economies. How deep is the attack on non-EU countries, and what choices do they make to respond to it? The collapse or prolonged recession of any major economic area is severely overshadowed by the global economy as a whole. The social consequences of failure to fight epidemics or economic recovery, especially in countries of weak governance, can be terrible and unpredictable. Fourthly, it seems that we are facing a time when the market economy is taking a little oxygen and the elements of the planned economy are underlining. This is something to be expected in a state of disturbance, but it is difficult to predict and model. Safety and security of supply are emerging in a new way, but will the time come for inward protectionism and zero-sum game? I hope not, it would be a disaster for a country like Finland. The direction in which these factors turn is also partly influenced by the decisions we take here. The projections of the budgetary plan may keep an eye on things, but the future may well be something quite different. It is therefore important that, while this JTS anchors the default career of the future, we also have the ability to anticipate and analyse alternative scenarios. The goal is not to be surprised, but if we do, we have to take care of ourselves anyway. In the face of such uncertainty, it must be ensured that decision-making is robust and that it is aimed at building an economy and an ecologically sustainable society. It would be absurd to make a hard effort to get out of this pandemic and run blind into the next system crisis, which will be hit by a global warming or dwindling biodiversity if we do not prevent it in time. It is incredible that the representatives of the Finnish people at the mouth of Tavio want to completely bypass the messages of the scientific community. Moreover, maintaining the dependence of fossil energy, even increasing it, is a very big risk of security of supply. [Ville Tavio’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u108	Mr President! We are closed a large part of private and public services to protect people. People have been urged to avoid close contact, when many of the open services have also suffered customer loss. Almost half a million workers are in the negotiations, the layoffs are counted in hundreds of thousands and the unemployed are already in tens of thousands. Even if we in Finland were to stop the restrictions and try to continue as if there were no interest rate, the recession in the world economy would affect us as well. The export industry has already begun to clot in global demand. “From the jamming crisis to the crisis,I’m moving in good steps,I’m going The last employment statistics before the crisis seemed to indicate that the government was well on track towards the 75% employment target, but now the world is completely different. Public finance plans must be built in line with the new world as soon as the scope of the restrictive measures and their economic impact begins to emerge. We will need more demand, not more supply. Of course, there is an increase in supply in certain sectors separately. Mr President! Fortunately, we live in a welfare state that is capable of taking the worst attacks and gives us a strong stepping stone to building the future after the crisis. Now the State is also being called upon by those who have previously wanted to cut the role of the State in society to the minimum possible. When public finances are planned for the coming years, we must learn from this crisis. We need more investment in children, young people and education, as well as care and health services. It is important that we now have a government that has not only the historical objective and experience of building a welfare state but also a lasting vision of reforming it for this decade. Mr President! Since the State receives an interest-free loan, unlike people, businesses and municipalities who are in trouble, it makes economic sense for the State to take the biggest role in coping with the crisis. Anyone who needs help must get help quickly. However, we must ensure that aid is targeted fairly and genuinely at the need and not waste public money by supporting those already in good standing. Business Finland's policies, for example, have been publicly challenged, and such subjective support models need to be replaced by more reliable systems that treat companies that need help equally. It must also be ensured that free subsidies are not used for the payment of dividends or for the purchase of own shares. When larger and larger companies are going to need support, it is also necessary to find out how companies linked to tax havens can be excluded from the scope of the aid. Subsidies must be concentrated in Finland for companies that pay their taxes and employ them here. I myself have been presenting a model of rent-reduction support. There has also been a VAT refund model, which would be good if it could be implemented quickly. In the big picture, however, the government's actions have been quite correct. We must not act as we did in the '90s when jobs were allowed to fall and billions of dollars of aid were subsequently drained to bank owners. Mr President! Although the closure of society is beginning to tire out and many people would just like to go back to the way it was, we must also recognise today that we would have many problems without a corona. Ismo Alankokin also sings: ‘From crisis to crisis, even with no intention of doing so. “ The crisis means a turning point, a new situation, after which the direction will change. Now that we are seeing public finances in the coming years, we are doing so partly blindly because no one is yet able to assess the depth of the crisis. However, we already know that we want the direction to be up and left, towards a safer welfare state where no one is left alone, but everyone's knowledge is involved in building well-being. Under the exceptional circumstances of this year, the framework does not limit the state's ability to act, and in the following years we will have EUR 1 billion more available for reconstruction. It is important that, in planning recovery and reconstruction, we look not to the past but to the future. In the midst of the crisis, it is all the more important to invest in education and in future jobs with jobs and environmental sustainability.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u109	Irade the Talman! We live for the second month of the corona and many things have changed, perhaps even permanently. We have experienced the negative effects on the economy that closing down borders means. We have also noticed that in certain sectors foreign workers are dependent on them. On a practical level, we have made major changes under duress. Schools have done the long-awaited digital leap, and companies have finally learned that even outside the conference room, not to mention us politicians, can participate in decision-making. At the same time as the workplace has acquired new meanings, the concept of working time has also been flexible. Work is being done in abnormal places at a different time, undoubtedly also in a way that may not always be quite compatible with working time legislation. At some point, this coronation is behind us. Now is the time to press ahead with the exit strategy and reflect on the post-crisis period. Many things have changed and the picture of the economy is no longer the same. Mr President! There are a lot of good and necessary strategic objectives in the Government Programme, which are completely curative, but it is clear that many measures to achieve these objectives will have to be re-evaluated. The economy is falling, and tax revenues are dwindling. There is reason to believe that unemployment will rise. You have to react to it, it matters. In this situation, the lessons learned during the crisis must be kept in mind: working hours can be flexible, jobs can be flexible, working methods can be flexible. When life normalises, it is important not to forget the flexibility introduced during the crisis. Keep the digital leap, separate work from place, travel less, communicate more. The Government Programme's record on promoting local reconciliation is particularly important right now. It will be possible to agree jointly, in cooperation, to create a culture of carbon-blasting, to give employees a place on the boards of companies and to bring flexibility to the workplace where it is hoped, both in organised and non-organised companies, because the doctrines of the corona crisis should not be lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u110	Mr President! The Christian Democrats have, as a general rule, supported the government in the short-term measures required by the acute corona crisis. Of course, we have highlighted the shortcomings — the lack of too slow and limited testing, the lack of protective equipment and the confusion in their procurement and guidance, the slowness of the granting of unemployment and business subsidies and, in particular, now the targeting of business subsidies — and also warned against opening up the debt of solidarity in the EU. However, in recent days there has been concern that the government does not now seem to wake up to this new reality that comes after that crisis. The economy must be revived for sustainable growth, employment improved further and public finances adapted. The structural challenges affecting Finland’s economy, i.e. the pressure on social costs due to ageing and the reduction in the labour force due to the baby deficit, have not disappeared with the interest rate. However, it was gratifying to note from the interview with Minister of Finance Kulmun in Helsingin Sanomat on 5 April that he had stated: ‘It is clear that the Government Programme has left its economic base. As far as the economy is concerned, it needs to be rewritten. This means that no expenditure increases can be made that have been thought of as a task. And we also have to talk in the government about the expenditure increases that have already been made.” I could have imagined that there would have been a deep consensus in the government that this was absolutely the case, but instead, on the way out of the next few days, we saw that almost all the other parties and ministers in the government seem to be living in another reality and these concerns of Kulmun that something must also be cut off in the future were wanted to be silenced. It seems that at this stage the government is holding to its many ideological favorite projects, such as the categorical extension of compulsory education that has been discussed here several times and the billion-dollar gender-neutral personal identity reform that brings to businesses and public finances. Categorical extension of compulsory education: In this debate, it was made clear that opposition parties consider it important that every young person should receive at least the secondary education, but we have different views here about the way in which it is carried out. Instead of categorically increasing the compulsory education age for all, it would make sense that, in this situation, resources should now be allocated to those young people who otherwise find it difficult to keep up with learning and who are at risk of exclusion and who need special support. Mr President! Even the revenue side is weak when the so-called future investment in the government programme — many of which are just ordinary permanent expenditure increases in public finances — was to be managed through the sale of state assets. However, the extent to which stock exchange prices have melted away is that selling in this situation would not make any sense. Even potentially escalating economic growth should not be allowed to go about corrupting by the traditional means of left-wing governments, i.e. heavy tax cuts. Instead, what is necessary is structural reforms, both in the war and in the war, the reduction of permanent increases in public expenditure, and labour market reforms, in order to maintain competitiveness. As we saw, both employers' and workers' organisations were able, at the time of the acute crisis, to bring a whole series of good proposals which have then been taken forward in this Parliament. I hope that this crisis will really stir up the question of how the Finnish working life needs to be developed in the future, how we will be able to maintain competitiveness in this changed situation and what measures are needed to promote, among other things, local reconciliation. It is particularly important to invest in the well - being of children and young people and families. In view of the decreasing age groups we have in Finland, we cannot afford the exclusion of any child. It is also good to bear in mind that these children are those who will have to pay these interest payments in due course, and in that sense also that, in this situation, we are particularly concerned about the situation of children, young people and that, after this crisis, they will be able to return to the school world, that their activities will continue and that the families will receive the necessary support, should now be at the top of the priority list.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u111	Mr President! It should be said to be a disgrace to Parliament's authority that even at this stage of the debate, when there are still 50 speeches to be taken on the list alone, the ministry is completely empty. This attitude and lack of appreciation are unacceptable when it comes to such a big, long - lasting issue. Is this more about the lack of television in this sitting? Government parties claim that the measures to combat corona have been timely. That is not true. If quarantine and traffic restrictions had been put on the external borders in time, there might not have been a need to build control points at the Uusimaa border. If testing had been stepped up in time, it might have been possible to limit the infection, and such extensive and costly closures of society would not necessarily have been necessary, at least on this scale. Now the disease has spread to such an extent that the government has taken the lead in slowing down the epidemic. This can cost us an unpredictable amount of money, because it cannot be guaranteed that private consumption will recover even if the restrictions in nominal terms are lifted. First of all, people can be afraid of infection and therefore do not move or consume. Second, effective purchasing power decreases due to layoffs and layoffs. In the worst case scenario, we're going to have a year-long Don't buy anything. It now sees the right effects of these ideologies, which are alien to reality. With regard to the budgetary plan, even before the corona crisis, the outlook for the economy and employment was very weak. Now they're inconsolable. In the past, the government's economic forecasts had no real basis, because they were based on growth figures that would not happen in Europe and the world of a declining economy, and on employment figures that the government had set as its objective without any real means of achieving its 75% target. The government's intention was to push the bill into the next government with debt and the sale of assets. Even when a good time cannot be saved, there is no buffer to take at a bad time. Only debt is left, and there is no time in sight for these debts to be repaid. In order for this to be acceptable, all unnecessary outward transfers and over-measured climate measures must be cut out in line with the basic Finnish line put forward by Mr Tavio in his previous speech. There are certainly other things that can be made more effective in society. From the government's ranks, views have been expressed that under the guise of the corona crisis, there should be no politicisation or ideological proposals. However, the government itself is constantly politicising under the guise of the crisis and making ideological proposals itself. It is a cheap exploitation of the crisis that some parties price their responsibilities under these circumstances in order to keep the beliefs agreed in the Government Programme, such as extending compulsory education, even if this is not realistically possible in this economic situation. The crisis is global and affects Europe in particular. Many countries of the economy that are weaker than Finland have suffered from the corona even more than we have so far. Now the economy of a few large euro countries was on the verge of a crisis even before the corona, and it seems likely that these countries will at least fall in some way, and they are trying to dam it with giant packages and increased solidarity. The euro crisis of the 2010s saved the interests of German and French industry in Greece. Now the banking sector in France has huge interests in Italy. Are they now being saved, among other things, by Finnish taxpayers’ money? Will Italy or Spain be responsible for all the other huge economic problems that are not corrosive? I therefore call on the government to hear plans for the euro, or even the EU, to fall as a result of this crisis, or what we will do if we impose impossible demands on Finland for joint responsibilities, which we cannot possibly accept. What is our plan to leave monetary union or the Union as a whole?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u112	Mr President! Last week, the Ministry of Finance published a gloomy forecast of Finland's economy for the coming years. The Ministry of Finance predicts that Finland's GDP will fall by 5.5 per cent this year. The general government deficit will increase by 14 billion, the employment rate will fall to 71%, and unemployment will rise. According to the budgetary forecast, government debt will increase by 60 billion by 2024 as the total debt exceeds 200 billion. This is, therefore, the most optimistic scenario in which restrictions will last for only three months, and the economy will quickly recover without a wave of corporate bankruptcy. According to a worse scenario, where the restrictions would last for six months, public debt would ache more than 250 billion in 2024. At the same time, the situation is deteriorating around the world. The world economy is shrinking by 2 per cent, world trade by 5 per cent. For example, the US economy is estimated to have collapsed by nearly 11% in the early part of the year. Dark, dark numbers. Under these circumstances, it could have been hoped that the government would have drawn up a technical budgetary plan. However, as the balancing plans were postponed until autumn, it was considered justified to increase non-essential expenditure. So the plan is not a technical one, even though the government calls it that. Technical would mean that the plan would not contain new policy orientations, but would be based on current legislation and an independent forecast from the Ministry of Finance. It is an important political decision that the government will continue to stick to the government programme with its teeth, even though its financial base has collapsed. Of course, there are good and important investments in health care, among other things. That's what we have to do in this situation. In good times, we've been holding purses tight for a bad day. Now that bad day is here and the purses must be temporarily loosened so that we are able to take adequate measures to protect people's lives and health and to bring businesses, the economy and society as a whole back on their feet. We have to take debt to build a bridge over these most difficult times, but once again we have to bear in mind our responsibilities in the longer term. In the name of sustainability, new permanent expenditure increases must be avoided, as we face difficult times and difficult decisions. In the moment when we see Finland and the world economy dive historically deep and understand the challenges facing us to maintain existing services, the government has slipped into its corona framework the new obligations of the municipalities, such as extending compulsory secondary education. As local government finances already in difficulty continue to deteriorate as a result of the crisis, between 1.5 billion and 2 billion will be presented alone this year,onabsurdia will present new obligations to the municipalities through the compensation measures that have beenimplemented. Right now, it would be preferable to reduce standards and increase flexibility in the way in which they are organised. As far as municipalities are concerned, the plan contains a creative solution: the municipalities are given more tasks and then they say that you should digitise and compete better so that you can have the money for this new task. At the same time, the municipalities' money is not even enough for the current tasks. I hope that the government will genuinely stop at the local government situation in its budget debate in the autumn. Our common goal must be for the municipalities to be able to carry out their duties. It is there that people and businesses are faced with everyday life every day, and the municipalities have a number of tools for both crisis management and post-crisis management. We need to create sufficient resources for that. That is why we have proposed the preparation of a municipal rescue package from the Coalition Party. I would also like to make a specific point about companies. In order to prevent the worst forecast, it would be extremely important to seek a safe exit from the constraints and to target direct support to companies. Mr Government, do not leave the burden of payment for the costs of interest rate restrictions to individual companies. Extensive bankruptcy and corporate indebtedness slow the recovery from the crisis and eat up the effectiveness of recovery when there is nothing left to revive. Finally, bring your support to restaurants and cafes in the sector desperately awaited and required by Parliament. Take swift action to ensure that companies get money at the bottom of the cash register immediately. We have proposed VAT refunds for the early part of the year, but there may be other ways. The most important thing is that action is taken immediately and that businesses are being helped right now. Mr President! Prior to the outbreak of the corona crisis, our economic situation was challenging and, in order to raise employment, we were looking forward to measures that we did not yet see. It is quite clear that a government programme that has now been broken down must be rewritten from now on. The corona crisis in our society will be shaped in very important ways, and the world around us will not be completely restored. The crisis has alerted us to the many weaknesses and shortcomings that we still have in the modern welfare state. Instead of rebuilding, Finland needs to be rebuilt by making socially, ecologically and economically sustainable solutions without looking for a face-to-face confrontation between the three themes. We can no longer stumble over mistakes made. With regard to the objectives of each policy sector, the bar must be set at a higher level than in the creation of a government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u113	Mr President! I am proud of the way the government and Parliament have handled the corona crisis. The Finnish coronaline values human life. Instead, I have been amazed at the way our Western neighbour, Sweden, has seemed to go ahead of the economy in its own crisis management. I am used to considering Sweden, particularly in human rights matters, as an example, so, in time, when we also have after-sweeping in Sweden about what happened during the crisis, I believe that the relatives will certainly raise their discontent with the way in which their loved ones in the high-risk group were treated. Finland’s way of dealing with the crisis has also received worldwide praise, although there has been criticism in our own country. Among other things, the food self-sufficiency rate in Finland has been admired in the world, which here is 80, while in Sweden it is 50. Many have taken domestic food production for granted, which is not. In future, we should invest in the survival of farmers and in fair compensation for the food produced in order to ensure our self-sufficiency in the future. In the face of a shortage of masks or industrial components, we saw how vulnerable our society is if we have outsourced a small matter to foreign production. Following the interest-rate crisis, a new strategy needs to be developed to ensure the self-sufficiency of the necessary sectors in the context of the next crises. In Finland, there was a very short response to the effectiveness of the isolation and restriction measures, as the number of people who have suffered and died is low in proportion to our population. The Finnish people and their various professional groups have played an exemplary role in crisis management since the initial attacks. Isolation and careful hygiene are now special virtues. I am proud to have followed the clear argument of our ministers, and in particular of the Prime Minister, the Finance Minister and the two of them, at different stages of the events. Communication has been transparent and honest. The people have also shown confidence in the ability of the government parties to act in a crisis. The latest measurement of Yle gave very good feedback, especially to the Prime Minister's Party. We've been learning a lot about the corona crisis. Mistakes have been made, but a lot has been done right. There will be use for the experience gained in the future, as there will continue to be new pandemics. The path of restrictions and isolation chosen by Finland is expensive, but humane. I'm proud of it. We have a valuable life and are not cynical about it. The dismantling of restrictions must also take place in a controlled manner, so that the human and economic sacrifices made as a result of them have not been in vain. Mr President! Once the crisis has been overcome, we will inevitably have to face the dreary realities of the economy. Increasing the employment rate will be an increasingly important objective. It is also inevitable that consideration will be given to the re-calibrating of the good and important reforms set out in the Government Programme. Now, however, is the time to put out the fire, and that means a significant financial effort to safeguard human lives and to spin the wheels of the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u114	Mr President! As several ministers have said here, the budgetary plan is technical in this uncertain and exceptional situation. On the basis of the changed and updated economic situation, negotiations will continue in the budget debate. The economic trend in the world is downwards. How much depends partly on the success of the fight against the virus and also on how well we manage to secure the conditions for the continuation of business and how well our society comes out of the crisis. The duration of epidemics and closures brings a loss of one billion per week, an estimated decrease of 2% of GDP per month. Taking over disease chains by significantly increasing testing and tracing the chain is essential. This requires the involvement of our entire health care chain, including very naturally occupational health care. The success of the fight on a global scale is in the interests of all. In addition to health care measures, business support must be successful. Business subsidies must be targeted at those companies that remain alive who employ and are viable. Clearly, there is still room for improvement in the allocation and conditions or in the interpretation of the aid, where, for example, the proportion of the aid granted is only 5.5% of the total amount of aid granted by the restaurant companies affected by the closure. Much of the well-being of people is the responsibility of municipalities, many of which were in crisis even before the corona. There is uncertainty about future prospects in municipalities. There is no desire to reduce the quality of services, but the crisis municipal procedures are weighing on tax revenue and layoffs and layoffs seem necessary in many municipalities. When considering recovery measures, consideration should therefore be given to which measures will also facilitate the investment pressures of municipalities, which will otherwise have to be reduced. This applies to the MAL projects identified as necessary or, for example, to a large number of school and day-care facilities that can be found on the working list of almost every municipality. In the interests of intergenerational justice, when we take on the debt that the next generations will have to pay, we must ensure that the debt does not accumulate any more in the areas of learning and the welfare of children and young people. Today’s young people in their adulthood will bear the great care burden of our already ageing population. To this end, they need the best possible skills. The Government Programme must therefore not forget the so-called future investments in basket two, which will provide training. If the timetable for government decisions is to be reviewed, massive fighter acquisitions will come up on their own list. As Mr Kiviranta said, the corona may accompany us in frequent waves. It is good, therefore, that the budgetary plan includes the training resources of the carers, even though the situation may challenge the implementation of the carer’s size. Nevertheless, the need for a nurse is clear in this situation. It is good that the government has stated that it adheres to its objectives of carbon neutrality and employment. There is already a pressing need for the workforce of immigrants and asylum seekers in our country. I hope that we will also see the potential available here, and that we will be able to quickly find permit solutions and employment measures that are both fair to individuals and secure the workforce that our economy urgently needs in the long term. The fight against climate change and the construction of a carbon-neutral society are still the lifeblood of our planet in the midst of the corona crisis and also the opportunity for our economy to rise. Specialisation and expertise in this area are the export assets of our companies in the future. Recovery measures must be selected by means of indicators to identify this need and potential.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u115	Mr President! The restrictive measures taken as a result of the interest-rate epidemic are leading to the economic downturn that had already been marked by signs at the end of last year. Statistics from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy show that unemployment has been slightly increasing since last December compared to one year ago. The layoffs have been in the direction of growth for some time now. Before the interest rate, before the special laws and regulations, in February the number of unemployed persons was 248000, an increase from one year ago to 2350. The number of laid-off persons was 18760 in February, the growth from one year ago to 2760. In order to respond to the recession, the focus has now been on measures to support businesses in particular. Billions have been invested in direct project support and loan guarantees. Companies have also been supported, inter alia, by a temporary reduction in employers' contributions and, on the other hand, by reducing the lay-off period for workers and other forms of protection against dismissal, the protection of workers. In order to secure the livelihood of ordinary people, the state has shown little money. Few handrests are the removal of five days of layoff. The daily allowance paid by the laid-off cashier itself will therefore begin to run now from the first lay-off date, provided that Kela and the cashiers are able to process the applications, which, unfortunately, will also have to be questioned. Even temporary flat-rate increases such as income support or other benefits are not being made. However, these would be important to alleviate the plight of people on low incomes. The only weak armrest is the amount of parental allowance paid to parents who have left work, which is estimated to be between 50,000 and 60,000 people. Nurses’ salary increases or temporary replacement bonuses should, even for them, be used for money, but apparently they are not coming now. The reason for focusing on business subsidies is to avoid unnecessary bankruptcy and prevent unemployment from rising. It is reasonable to suspect that the government’s billion-dollar advantage will also be offset by those companies whose business is not affected by the restrictive measures and which would be able to survive anyway. There has already been a lot of criticism that the money has gone wrong. Suomen Kuvalehti reported on Friday that the European Parliament shareholder Petri Sarvamaa’s spouse, Bad Mother, received EUR 100,000 of State aid from Business Finland. How does this aid save jobs? After all, this social media company does not have any external employees. It's an online blog. The criteria for granting aid to enterprises and the control of aid are clearly not up-to-date. Mr President! In the budgetary plan for the years 21 to 24, EUR 5.5 billion has been allocated for fighter procurement, the HX project, approximately half of the total purchase price, and this is perhaps only one-sixth of the additional life-cycle costs. The HX project continues to be the single most important contributing factor in central government finances in terms of public deficits and indebtedness. With a debt of 20 billion, perhaps 30 billion, as a result of these measures resulting from the corona virus, it would be high time for the HX project to be transferred to the next parliamentary term. At the same time, it should be thoroughly re-evaluated. After all, the acquisition is based on a preliminary study carried out in 2015 on the replacement of Hornets. The study is already out of date. Multi-functional fighters are not capable of combating future threats of warfare, drones and missiles. After all, the purpose of the preliminary study was not to find out, but to bind Finland to order expensive American fighters. Last week a consultancy agreement was made public between Jarmo Lindberg, former Defence Forces commander, and Lockheed Martin, the F-35 fighter manufacturer. At the latest, it has revealed the nature of the entire HX project. There have been serious doubts about bias, direct corruption in the procurement process. Lindberg retired at the beginning of August 2019, but it is now in the interest of one fighter manufacturer through his company, which has already been established in the Karves era. In his post, Lindberg was the central originator and midwife of the HX project. He also took through a billion-dollar sale of JASSM missiles purchased from Lockheed Martin to arm the Hornets. In several public speeches, Mr Lindberg has highlighted his good contacts with the US Defence Administration. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u117	Ärade Herr Talman! Coronakrisen har rubbat planerna på de offentliga finanserna och minskat på utsikterna. Kostnaden för coronakrisen kommer bli stor både för ekonomin och de offentliga finanserna. Hur stor vet vi inte anu. Ett av de största problemmen för economist, vid sidan av att omsättningen tvärnnat på ett historiskt stätt, är osäkerheten för framtiden då man inte vet när saker kommenter normaliseras och hur det nya normala kommer att ut. Klart är att coronakrisen kommer föra med sig förändringar i samhället, i viva branscher på ett mycket betydande sätt. Irade the Talman! För varje dag som går kommer vi samtidigt en dag närmare krisens slut. Det gäller nu att över krisen så att det finns något att bygga på när krisen tar slut. Då krisen är slut — och den kommer ta slut — gäller det att snabbt få igång ekonomin så att den tander på alla cylindrar så snabbt som vöjligt igen. Detta så att vi också ska kunna betala tillbaka den ökade skuldsättningen som nu kommer att tas. Nyckeln i detta är framför allt sysselsättningen. Vi måste få upp sysselsättningsgraden genom activa åtgärder då krisen börjar ta slut. För det andra måste vi också höja produktiviteten i economist. Och för det tredje behöver vi ännu mer stöda forskning och innovationer som stöder företags nya produkter, som också kan bli bra produkter för en grön omstalling av samhället. Klimatfrågan har inte försvunnit någonstans och ökade resorter till forskning och innovationer kunde också bidra till att hit exportprodukter som stöder econom samtidigt som de behövs för klimatet. Irade the Talman! Below moln har en silverkant. Under coronakrisen har jag variants positivt överraskad över hur snabbt Finlands näringsliv och fackförbunden gemensamt kände hitässer som stödde Finland och minskade de negativa effekterna av coronaviruses. Insatserna är inte lätta för någon, men genom att hit dem gemensenmt kan de bli mer rättvisa och effektiva. Bland gives Sverige och Tyskland har en startkare tradition av gemensamt samförstånd mellan industri och fack, på samma sätt som det samförstånd som nu hittades mellan förbunden i en kristid. Det samförståndet har variantt en framgångsfactor för både Sverige och Tyskland. Det samförståndet har bland av historiska orsaker inte funnits på samma sätt tidigare i Finland, men vi behöver få den samsynheten i framtiden. Mer samförstånd skulle minska på annat konflikter på arbetsmarknaden, höja på tryggheten för investoringar och skapa fler nya arbetsplatser samtidigt som man skulle upprätthålla knkurrenskraften för att hålla kvar befintliga arbetsplatser då det blir mer dynamiskt och resistant mot chocker. Mer samarbete och samförstånd på arbetsmarknaden skulle vara viktigt för att hitta åtgärder som höjer på sysselsättningen, viket alla i Finland skulle bli vinnare på. För alla i economist gynnas indekt då det går bra för finländsk ekonom och så många som möjligt har arbete. Här lyfter jag på hatten för de centrala förbunden som snabbt hit lösningar under coronakrisen, aven om det tuvarr finns enstaka förbund som inte hörsammat detta och som nu i vivi fall av någon outgrundlig anledning äventyrar sina arbetsplatser då man inte förstått allvaret för de ekonomska consekenserna av koronakrisen. Irade the Talman! De övriga nordiska lännderna har under sysselsättningsgrader på över 75 percent. En sådan sysselsättningsgrad skulle skapa en helt give stabilitet i våra offentliga finanser. Exempelvis Island och Åland visar också att det går att uppnå en sysselsättningsgrad på över 80 percent. Det brode också vara hela Finlands långsiktiga mål.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u118	Mr President! We are now discussing the budgetary plan for the coming years and then the recession caused by the corona virus. The government has gone into the fight against coronavirus health ahead, which is a very good thing. The Government and Parliament have reacted rapidly to the corona epidemic through the introduction of preparedness legislation in order to protect risk groups and secure the capacity of health care. At the same time, care must be taken to ensure that the impact of restrictive measures must not lead to a wave of bankruptcy and an increase in unemployment. The economy is now suffering both from the exceptional measures of movement and assembly caused by corona restrictions, from the break-up of global production chains and from a sharp increase in uncertainty about the duration of the forthcoming epidemic. The Ministry of Finance estimates that Finland’s economy will shrink by 5.5 percentage points this year. Public finances face a real challenge in this situation. At this stage, it should also be borne in mind that the public sector, that is to say the state, is now also taking a strong responsibility for the future of business and the preservation of jobs, and that is why the challenges must be tackled decisively. The economy will not recover properly until the epidemic has been resolved, but without the carrying capacity of the economy it will not be possible to organise health care. The Government will increase funding for testing, health protection equipment, business continuity and employment. It should also be pointed out here that we also have pensioners, especially those over 70, who have been grounded in a certain way, and their situation must also be taken into account in this challenging situation. It may be that for over 70-year-olds who are at home and who may also have to buy their food through middlemen, the cost will increase, and then their need for rehabilitation may increase during this crisis as mobility decreases. In other words, it must also be taken care of after this crisis. In order for us to return to sustainable growth after the crisis period, we need investment in the future, such as compulsory education. This too is a very important issue. At present, secondary school pupils are in distance learning and their future needs must also be met and able to take them along this path of learning. Future growth can be improved through public investment, for example in corridors and other plans already in place. We have a significant correction debt, and that is what we would now have the opportunity to strike at. Deterioration of tax revenue and additional expenditure have pushed the already vulnerable local government finances even further. According to the first estimate by the Ministry of Finance, the interest rate crisis will weaken the local government finances by between 1.6 billion and 2 billion euro this year. Private consumption and investment fall particularly strongly during the current year. It is therefore important for the state to take responsibility for securing the operating conditions of municipalities and hospital districts. I am also raising the challenges of agriculture in this context. Access to seasonal labour is important for agriculture, and now Finnish young people have the opportunity to demonstrate their abilities. It would also be possible to take advantage of those laid off who have become unemployed in this challenging situation. Then, in relation to business activities, money received through Business Finland has also been mentioned here today. It seems that in some way it has gone according to different criteria than the criteria presented to the Committee on Finance. I very much hope that this support will actually go to those companies that employ and are in real need of help,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u121	Mr President! The crisis that we are now in life is unprecedented. The interest rate has not yet shown its worst days, and since then it should be remembered that there is also a financial crisis that is currently emerging in Italy, in Spain, in the Mediterranean countries, and France too, I think, is in the midst of this. So this is what we can prepare for. Trade is still relatively good in Finland. Fortunately, the export trade is still pulling a little bit, but this morning I also made a call to some of the partners in the forest industry, so it does not look good there. This is good for all of us to remember. The good things in the government programme... — we have to recognise that the income base has collapsed, that there will be no tax revenue, that the expenditure base has exploded, that there will be a huge increase in spending and that we will have to take debt. So the talk about whether we have a government programme in place can be drawn from it. In any case, it has to be rewritten and it has to be in that position — there is only one position in which it could be, and that is — that we have to deal with this crisis. First, the crisis phase must be dealt with, then reconstruction must be put in place, which means that work will then be done and not, for example, to cut off unnecessary spots. An example of the current situation in Finland is that we ourselves have rejected some significant investments on unimaginable grounds. By decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, Finnpulp of Kuopio had an inconceivable end — a matter that should have been approved immediately. We would have an investment of 1.5 billion there at the moment. It would certainly be the best possible boost to this situation for the region and the entire Finnish economy. The same applies to the Kemijärvi project. It is probably in the funding phase, but I hope that the authorisation issues will be in order—including my understanding—but the financing decisions will be lacking. A large forest industry consortium is emerging in the chemical sector, where a new bioproduct plant is being built, which is huge in scale. Such permits must be found quickly without being wised up, whether it is a bad thing or a good thing. It is certainly a good thing when Finnish wood is processed and exported to the rest of the world and, above all, Finnish energy and raw materials are made for processing the Finnish chemical industry. To this end, we need to change attitudes gradually. Similarly, the wind farms that were not built because of the wolves when the Supreme Administrative Court, in its greatest wisdom, found that they interfere with the soul life of the wolves. Now we have a study that says that there is no such thing as an infrasound problem. In this sense, too, we must gradually come to our senses and start investing seriously. Agriculture clearly needs us to keep Finnish agriculture and farmers very firmly on the sidelines of their own work. So far, farmers have been kept broadly, I do not say, slave status, but by almost those means. Bureaucracy has been raised to quite astronomical sums, and yet we have a situation in this country that, despite this, still about 80 percent of our security of supply depends on domestic farms and domestic family farms. We've got to hold on to this. Farmers must be given a better chance to make a living in their own work, in their own efforts. It should also be borne in mind that it is about 300,000 jobs, which the whole chain currently employs in the food supply economy. If we want to eat Finnish food, we must respect the Finnish farmer, and the bureaucracy on that side must be removed as quickly as possible. It's possible, if that's what we want. Then there are the current parliamentary projects. The Land Use and Construction Act, which is still in the negotiating phase as it were, must be adopted when the time is right, so that we will remove all unnecessary bureaucracy around the construction. It cannot be that, for six to seven years, permits stand in administrative courts and argue over some non-existent issues, although we know that the municipalities have a zoning monopoly, and that is something we must support. Such the construction of continuous zoning rings does not serve anyone, if we want to maintain something else here about the Finnish standard of living. That is still possible, but with these prospects, if we do not take decisive action, that opportunity will be lost. On the forestry side, we also need the wisdom to be able to cut more domestic forests, to manage them better. For example, the section of the Kemera Act, where ash fertiliser can increase forest growth, is very useful and good. That additional growth of 5 to 10 million mots is achievable. Finland's maximum theoretical forest growth is close to 150 million mots, which means that we have potential. Finally, Mr President, we need to make a great deal of progress on the business situation. This increase in the distribution of the various subsidies that is now under way must, of course, be addressed and focused on the fact that the companies that are most in need of it will receive the support. Taxation must support the gradual transfer of part-production from abroad, this production activity, to Finland and ensure that security of supply also works. It cannot be that, because of our taxation, companies are moving away from Finland and then, when the crisis comes, as is currently the case, we are in trouble. This cannot continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u122	Mr President! The interest-rate epidemic has reached the point where we need an exit strategy based on the best available information as soon as possible, which will enable us to return to normal under controlled circumstances. People’s ability to cope with corona restrictions is beginning to be tested, and negative effects are becoming apparent. Restrictions cannot be lifted once and for all, but there is a need for hope and a vision of how we can get through this. Removing the extensive restrictions requires us to significantly increase testing, to enhance the tracking of the transmission chains and to isolate the infected effectively. In Finland, the digital mobile application should also be used to track contact chains, and this should be integrated into the other strategy for controlling the epidemic. Of course, this is on condition that the solution respects fundamental rights and does not undermine data protection, but it is perfectly possible to do so. Mr President! The government has focused on the management of the acute crisis and this budgetary plan does not include any significant new policy decisions. The economic policy package will return to the budget debate in August, when the road map for sustainable taxation will be laid down, among other things. The central goal of the Government is to continue to make Finland the first carbon-neutral welfare society by 2035, and the importance of this goal has by no means been reduced by the corona crisis. Climate change and the loss of biodiversity are the biggest crises facing humanity of our time. They don't disappear or wait for the corona. The Korona epidemic is a harsh example of what kind of global effects Finland will also have if we cannot curb these crises here in Finland and through international cooperation. The economy must therefore be revived by measures to support the exit from fossil fuels and the transition to a carbon-free circular economy. In this way, we will ensure in a sustainable way that new jobs and export opportunities are created in Finland and that Finland’s economy will also be on a sustainable basis in the future. Mr President! There is currently a wide-ranging debate on the problems of targeting aid to businesses. Our main objective is and must be to prevent bankruptcy and job losses. This does not seem to be the case in all respects. There is still great concern about the restaurant sector, which has been deprived of the operating conditions by the corona.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u125	Mr President! In this acute situation, our main task is to minimise the negative effects of the corona epidemic, to protect human health and to safeguard well-being. At the same time, however, the crisis forces us to rebuild our society. This reconstruction is also an opportunity to achieve good. We can build a society better than its predecessor. A society that is more socially and ecologically sustainable. That is what this government has committed itself to, and that commitment must also be maintained. As Prime Minister Marin has said, climate change has no mercy or looks at the situation. We must also make climate solutions in this situation, or we are in an even worse crisis than we are now. Measures to curb climate change should not be taken back because delay only increases the cost of the necessary changes and increases human suffering. Today's budgetary plan gives the reconstruction of society the first frame. Now, for example, the government is allocating money to municipal climate work and climate projects. Such measures are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u128	Ärade talman, Mr President! I samband med ramrian kring påsk var det en person som var i kontakt med mig och had en del frågor kring det ox, att är det faktiskt värt att göra en sådan är plan nu, en sådan är rambudget för de kommande åren, effectsom vi inte vet hur det kommer att gå med coronaviruset och det är omöjligt att veta i dagens läge. Jag kan i och för sig förstå den ox tanken, och det är många organisationer och likanande som lever ett år i taget, men för staten är det viktigt att man blickar framåt och är valdigt långsiktig i sitt tänk. Detta har även effekter på kommunerna, som det har nämnts auri tidigare, och organisationer som planerar sin verksamhet. Det är lite av en dominoeffekt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u129	Mr President! This time the Government report does not contain a clear plan for the coming years, which, on the other hand, is quite understandable, in this situation in life. But on the other hand, this means that if the economy is to be managed in a sustainable and fair way for future generations, the government will have to make really tough decisions by the autumn at the latest. The Government also decided to support companies with direct corporate subsidies in the midst of the corona crisis. It is now, however, that business subsidies directed through both Ely Centres and Business Finland are strongly targeted at development projects. The question is: will corporate subsidies in the corona crisis go to successful and forward-looking companies and will the companies struggling with bankruptcy fail? Mr President! The time for development will come, but now it is a question of keeping companies alive and paying wages and rent when there is no sale.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u130	Mr President! The bright spring in the yard does not know about the corona and its chastisement, and I think that our government ministers will not notice much about the shining spring, because they have been so busy wrestling with this problem. We are dealing with a double crisis in which, in a way, the economy and health are interdependent, and even before this crisis, before the corona, we have faced major challenges both in health and in the economy, but now they have become deeper and more complex. There are no unambiguous answers, and that is why I welcome the fact that our key ministers have said on several occasions that we need to start moving, solutions need to be made and mistakes need to be corrected when they are detected. I believe that this also relates to the point raised by the previous speaker. If I remember correctly, Minister Lintilä from that box today said that those criteria are being corrected and how, for example, to obtain better support for companies that need it. It must be understood that the rapid movement required the use of mechanisms already in place, which have been made in completely different circumstances. They were made in a world where development was important and where in fact there were scarce resources available to businesses. But now that this situation is being corrected, there is also a need for those other criteria, and we must be extremely careful that money is not being poured out on companies that can survive independently, because we all know that money has its limits. If we look at this budgetary plan, I think the government has made a wise choice and left the big structural issues in the budget line. Let us hope that then we have already overcome what we are currently wrestling with in relation to this acute crisis, and then we will be making more political policies. There have been many calls for the government programme to be opened up. Isn't that government program already open? We all know that. Money has been spent for purposes that have not been included in the government programme, and that has been quite right. It has been flexible crisis management. The Government Programme has not stood in the way. But at the time when we start to think about how to do the next JTS and the next budget, I would like to see wisdom, because in fact, the economy and employment are things that first appear, but the social recession is only visible after that, and its cape is longer. That is why it is important to ensure, for example, that we have sufficient resources to promote mental health, that we invest in schools, for example, that studies go well and that people, our young people and children, are in the condition that they are able to study. I also see that the fact that we are investing in knowledge is extremely important. It is an investment in employment and it is a future investment. The opposition has criticised the extension of compulsory education, for example. They have every right to do so. Even before the elections, a large number of you felt that compulsory education should not be extended. But now it is one of the tools by which we can meet the challenges of the future, by providing all young people with the secondary education that is important in the labour market. It is certainly not compulsory education alone, and we need many other instruments, but it is one of the tools by which we can prevent inequalities between young people and children and create more equal opportunities for them. Climate change is the third crisis that knocks on the door here alongside health care and the economy. It has also been called for, as it were, to stop climate action now, but if we have survived the corona crisis, we will not allow Finland and the world, as it were, to fall into another much larger crisis, the climate crisis. [Leena Sea interlude] We will certainly have to think about many new things, such as our self-sufficiency. If agriculture is self-sufficient but our fuel is not, what will be the result? In health care, we have contingency plans, but we found that everything was not exactly what we anticipated. The global world has shown that subcontracting chains do not always function as idealistic as they do in normal times, and therefore the market and its risks need to be assessed from a new perspective. Combining taxation with climate change control is one of the things that can help us find solutions to this crisis, but we also have to think about the basic principles of security. Are the most urgent security investments, such as fighter procurement or the strengthening of health care and skills? I believe that the sustainability gap in knowledge is at least as dangerous as the sustainability gap in the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u131	Mr President! At the moment, the economic decisions of the state are extremely important. They strongly point the way to getting out of the pit dug by the corona. Borrowing is necessary, but the spike cannot be recklessly open to debt. As Finland becomes indebted and the burden of payment for future generations increases significantly, it is necessary to ensure that the debt money is channelled sensibly. I have to say that the morning coffee was about to go down the wrong throat today when I read the list of companies that received EUR 100,000 in financial packages. For example, it is difficult to understand that a consulting firm that makes a profit of a million dollars is going to have such a cash pool. The Board of Directors prefers not to take responsibility for this, but to point in the direction of Business Finland. It is true that the Ministry must draw up guidelines on support for companies so that such a farce is not allowed to take place. Now that consultants are pleased with their money, at the same time many small businesses are going down and sad fates are coming. To put it bluntly, the financial efforts made to avoid a wave of bankruptcy have not hit the target for the moment. And it must also be said that the person seeking aid is not the only one, the greatest guilty and immoral — but the one who grants subsidies, even if the conditions do not necessarily exist. Mr President! When it comes to living as a debt, I believe that the oversized environmental objectives of the government, which are combustible to Finnish industry, should now be passed on to the back. Of course, it is good to make responsible decisions on the environment, but now the economy and jobs weigh more. We simply cannot afford to pay the price of the government's green line in this situation. On the health side, care should not be caught in euros. We must now ensure sufficient resources for all medical districts, including smaller and more remote ones, so that lives are not lost. All citizens must be treated regardless of age. There is currently no room for extending compulsory education. The benefits of the reform are very controversial and the price tag is tough. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has estimated that extending compulsory education to upper secondary education will cost up to EUR 200 million per year. These euros could also be used for the benefit of medical staff. If you look at the care sector, the cleaning sector, the commerce sector, they are very underpaid and often dominated by women. We're gonna need a lot of help there. Now this reform of compulsory education must be understood to bury and focus on lifting Finland from the ashes. The government now has to take reason in the management of the Finnish economy. It is not always possible to react to problems with a delay and wake up when things are wrong and the media read how they have been tampered with. Then officials and politicians accuse each other of competing, and it is difficult to find the person responsible at that point. This may not be good leadership. We now need the ability to make rational decisions to save our country's economy. Mr President! This self-sufficiency and food production in Finland. If the industry is very appealing and people feel that it is doing well, then there is a lot to do with it. But there is not a very large amount of farmers, because the future does not seem very open, bright for the farmer, and it is very uncertain. It is important for all of us consumers and for Finland that we have our own food production, self-sufficiency, at least 80 per cent, and it is also the future that everything else we produce is a Finnish label so that it is produced in Finland. It is very important and brings tax money, and exports are also pulling when we come up with good products, but it is vital that they are produced in Finland. And the interests of Finns ahead, now we have to look at the interests of Finnish citizens at the moment very carefully. And then I would like to finish by asking, because we have my Minister Kulmun here, when there is also a lot of feedback from event organizers, festival organizers, that it is likely that the festivals and events will be cancelled for the coming summer. And if so, how well are the big event organizers and even a little smaller ones to prepare for the next event, which will be in the autumn or next year, if it comes very late for that decision, then
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u132	Mr President! According to the current forecast, Finland's economy will decline by 5.5 per cent in 2020. Of course, this reality depends on how long the restrictions are in place and on how quickly people’s behaviour and consumption return to normal. The general government deficit will increase by nearly EUR 14 billion this year to EUR 16.16 billion, and this does not yet include the government's third amending budget in May. In general, in the budgetary plan, the government should inform Parliament of its objectives for the development of public finances and indicate the means to achieve them. As a result of the Corona virus epidemic, these decisions are now virtually postponed until autumn. In summary, the plan merely states that there will be a sharp increase in debt in the coming years. Since the corona crisis is acute and the government's attention has focused on dealing with this acute crisis, the debate has also turned to it many times in the Chamber today. However, it is important to stop by these numbers. The future does not look rosy for public finances. Hopefully, the calculations will have an effect on the fact that the government is really doing everything it can to save jobs and businesses and thus to secure the financing of social services. There is also a need for vigorous structural reforms in order to emerge from this crisis. Mr President! There have been rumours today about two important ways of facilitating businesses, which would now finally be in preparation. Repayment of VAT payments for the early part of the year would be a relief for entrepreneurs in the cash crisis. For many, the cashier is already empty, and the last thing to do is not pay the bills. Many entrepreneurs have not been able to make a living for themselves for a long time. Fortunately, the unemployment security of an entrepreneur brings little relief to this, but while the company is still operating it does not cover costs often, and it is barely enough to make a living. However, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, Mr Kulmun, if this matter is now moving forward, i.e. VAT payments for the first half of the year will be made to the business account shortly. Another aid required by Parliament is support for restaurants and cafes. Since the activities are now legally closed or at least severely restricted, this will result in major losses for companies in the sector. It is great if the government is now bringing in support to help companies in the restaurant sector out of the crisis. Of course, there may be other ways to support restaurants and cafes. For example, restaurants could be granted a temporary right to sell out alcohol in connection with its 5.5% restaurant food. However, many entrepreneurs are in at least the same difficult situation when, in practice, the only way to continue their business is by force to create close contacts, but this is where every effort is being made to avoid them. Thus, there have been no direct restrictions on the operation, but in practice there are no customers. This applies to many small businesses, such as hairdressers and other beauty businesses, as well as speciality stores. The sole entrepreneur’s support is one-off and the development aid does not help many of these companies. VAT refund would also be very important to many of these companies in this situation. It would be important for consumption in the service sector to be maintained even in some way, even though we live in isolation. Many people are now afraid to buy gift cards if there is no information on the existence of a company after the crisis. Some municipalities have made extraordinary decisions, gone to guarantee a gift card in the event of a company collapse. I could imagine that in such municipalities more companies will survive when demand is not completely zero. Mr President! The interest-rate crisis poses a lot of challenges that we do not yet know about the scale and impact of. Urgent treatments have been driven down in hospitals and health centers. In almost 80 municipalities, for example, enrollment to cervical cancer screening has also been interrupted. There's a precipitating lack of treatment elsewhere. The activities of the clinics have been reduced and school health care staff have also been transferred to other tasks. Mental health services have also been reduced. These measures will lead to a shift in demand for services after the crisis has been eased. There is also a risk that diseases will worsen, as well as children, families and young people’s nausea will accumulate as treatment and service visits are postponed. The main concern, according to the experts, is especially about the smallest schoolchildren who are not yet able to express their own concerns. The number of child welfare notifications has fallen significantly — but that is not good news. Lifestyle diseases can still be prevented by physical activity, but they are not enough to contain future costs. Mr President! It is very important that when this crisis is resolved, we feel in the same boat. Finding a way out of the crisis is our top priority for both health and the economy. The social blockade costs us, as a nation, about a billion dollars each week in lost production. I hope that the government will have the wisdom to solve the crisis as well as to make decisions in the years to come and in the economy. It will not be an easy task.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u133	Mr President! The future is now hard to predict. In times of acute crisis, time is running fast, and the necessary measures must have been mobilised quickly. We must do everything we can to overcome this epidemic with minimal human and social damage. This has been the focus of the government for the past few weeks. It is true that the restrictions that we have established are putting our economy at the forefront of major challenges, but we must also remember why they have been established and why they still need to be respected. They are designed to care for each other’s health, safety and the right to live. Mr President! It is only after the epidemic has subsided that we can better know what kind of a trail this leaves in our economy. We already know that the international economy is declining, production is disrupted and demand is severely reduced. Finland's gross domestic product is also estimated to fall strongly: an optimistic estimate of five and a half per cent, and a more pessimistic estimate of up to 13 per cent. Realism is probably somewhere in the middle, or at least I hope so. So this is terrible, terrible news. Employment is deteriorating and layoffs and unemployment are increasing rapidly. Mr President! In order to avoid a wave of bankruptcy and mass unemployment, hard work must be done. This requires the help of the whole Parliament. For example, grants to businesses of EUR 1.5 billion help many entrepreneurs to survive and believe in tomorrow. It is true, however, that we must manage to target this aid better than we do at present. At present, the aid does not reach all the entrepreneurs and businesses that should. It also appears that some of the aid has fallen into completely the wrong targets. The use of the aid must be closely monitored and, where appropriate, recoveries carried out. I am very grateful to Minister Lintilä for having quickly tackled these shortcomings today. A number of other measures were introduced in the amending budget. There must have been a great need for all those measures. As we move forward from the crisis phase at this moment, we need a more ambitious economic policy. We need new kinds of work, structural reforms, reconstruction of Finland. Further steps and the way out of exceptional circumstances must be drawn up quickly on the basis of the information we can use. Fortunately, this will be the case, and the government has appointed excellent experts to this end. I look forward to the results of these working groups. After the acute crisis, Finland must return to the path of sustainable growth, high employment and sustainable public finances. We must safeguard the structures of this welfare society, that we will continue to be able to guarantee the necessary services for Finns and that we will continue to be able to take care of the health, safety and future of our country's citizens. Mr President! It is true that in exceptional circumstances many Finns find it exceptionally difficult. The epidemic is no longer just testing those who are infected with this virus. It's testing all of us. That is why we must also remember through these times the humanity and humanity that must also be included in the decision-making process. It is important to build on the first steps towards the 2030s, although this is particularly difficult in an acute crisis situation. We have to forget about the extra expenditure at the latest. Only with balanced public finances can we maintain a Finnish welfare society. This must be the absolute goal of the state: a Finland that creates good for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u134	Mr President! In a way, it is a good sign that we have already been able to discuss in Finland what is to be done after the crisis and how well the transactions have been successful in this midst of the crisis. At the same time, the debate may have moved ahead with the fact that the pandemic has been quite well controlled in Finland, at least so far. The growth of infections has been curbed very well compared to many other countries. For example, if you compare with the United States, you are on a really good road in Finland. A comparison with Sweden, which is also a neighbour of the West, shows that the restrictions have been in place here and have saved lives. They have also bought valuable time to increase the treatment capacity, to develop the vaccine, so that we can go to all the important international projects where longer-term solutions are sought. This should be recognised now that we are talking about the direction of the economy forward. There have even been speeches in this Chamber today that these restrictions have somehow been made without regard for the economy. Of course, this is not true, but the assessment of the significance of these has always been included. Let us not forget that, above all, these restrictions have been made to save people's lives, health and safety. So, although the situation is good now, there is no reason to forget this and it is always worth remembering the possibility that we do not yet know very well about this disease and, unfortunately, there is the possibility that something will become a new negative development, and then, of course, we must be prepared to react again. So, in this situation, we are constantly in parallel with the management of the acute situation and, at the same time, looking further. After all, speed is an asset here, whether it is for health care or for safeguarding Finnish jobs and businesses. It has now become clear that this is a rather challenging balancing task: how to be careful and precise enough, but also extremely fast, faster than ever before. However, this is a unique crisis which requires an exceptional speed. Regrettably, when action is taken so quickly in an unprecedented situation, there will also be mistakes and, of course, we will have to look carefully at how they can be prevented in the future. It is therefore important to look carefully at how, for example, protective equipment is acquired from more reliable sources and, on the other hand, how business aid is targeted more effectively, for example, to the restaurant sector which has been particularly affected by these restrictive measures. In other words, while we have to act quickly, learning and continuing to look forward is essential if we are to move forward together in this situation. Looking ahead is also important to curb the human costs of the crisis. I believe that in this situation we have seen what the value of a strong welfare state really is. The value lies in the fact that when an individual, a municipality or a company has been unable to prepare itself for it, then the Nordic welfare state will be carrying out: take care of businesses, take care of people, quickly developing support measures for municipalities and health care districts, in order to really get through this together. Of course, we must now ensure that such a state of solidarity, a strong welfare state, can continue to be maintained. Now that we have seen the great joy of a welfare state in the midst of a crisis, I hope that in the future, over the coming years and decades, there will also be an ever-greater understanding of why, for example, it is essential to take care of tax payments. The vast majority of people and businesses are doing this very carefully, and it is wrong for them that we unfortunately have those players who are trying to get away from where the fence is lowest. This is not acceptable in a crisis and it is not acceptable in ordinary everyday life either. It is therefore important that, as soon as possible after this, we try to tackle aggressive tax planning and bring the economy on a strong, fair footing so that the welfare state will continue to endure in the future. The EU has a huge role to play here, because we have a common market, and we have a great deal to gain from cross-border trade. At the same time, this also opens the door to optimization of taxes and other forms of avoidance of liability, and the EU must therefore work together and ensure that there will be sufficient funding for each welfare state in the future. In addition, when it comes to global crises of this kind and their resolution, the development of society, Finland should always be involved as an open, export-driven economy when considering the ways in which the global economy can rise, in order to develop common solutions, such as vaccines and medicines, but also common solutions for the rise of the economy, because of course, Finland's exports will not rise until the economy of key export countries rises, and it will not rise until the global economy rises. In other words, this interdependence should also be remembered in these circumstances and it is worth sticking to the fact that we can achieve sustainable development both in Finland and globally.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u135	Mr President! Time is short and I shall try to discount its wish for a brief speech by the Council of Presidents. In this context, I would like to raise two points: Of course, we have had an in-depth debate about the future, about future budgetary structures, and the essential thing is to recognise that it is not the time to talk about cuts. Now is the time to talk about solving the economic problems caused by this corona virus epidemic. Personally, I strongly believe that the broad guidelines of the Government Programme on extending compulsory education, nursing and climate investment should all be implemented, because they all build a sustainable future for Finland. Mr President! The second point I wanted to make is what has been talked about here today, namely these support measures. We all know well that consultants can apply for and apply for these subsidies. We also know that there have been messages from the accountants that some companies are asking them to produce interest rate losses in order to carry out these searches. And at the same time, Mr President and Minister — while you are here — I know a great many self-employed people who, in practice, have thrown their axe into the well. They will not even survive this search process simply. They have said that it seems hopeless to apply, not to apply, we are not receiving subsidies, this is not going to work. And here are the extra immigrants: in Vantaa, for example, 20 per cent of the adult population use a foreign language, other than Finnish or Swedish, and it is completely hopeless for them to succeed in this process. Among other things, I know a large number of hairdressers who have found that there is no hope, even though the profession is out of hand. I hope that serious attention will now be paid to this, that this bureaucracy will make it easier, while there are still too many language bureaucrats here. Let us think carefully about helping those who are most in need of support here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u136	The debate and debate will be suspended and the debate will continue in the plenary session to be held later today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u137	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u138	Mr President! It is therefore a question of giving Parliament a supplementary government proposal relating to the second amending budget of this year. That second amending budget was submitted to Parliament on 9 April, and the Committee on Finance has not yet submitted a report on it, so a small supplement to that amending budget will now be submitted to you. This is therefore linked to the proposed increase of EUR 5.5 million in international contributions and contributions, with the aim of increasing the level of funding to be paid to the WHO this year. In this context, the United States has announced its withdrawal from WHO funding and is one of the most important and major donors in the organisation with a 20% share, and Finland believes that, in this situation, we can return to the 15th level of funding by the World Health Organisation. But this only applies to this current year, and next year, when we are within the framework, it will then, of course, require savings from something else if funding is kept at this level. In this way, the Government proposes that Finland contribute to raising funding for the World Health Organisation. Last year, Finland’s basic membership contribution amounted to EUR 1.9 million, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has also paid EUR 750000 of the voluntary funding allocated as a programme grant to the WHO. Mr President! Here's a short one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u139	Mr President! This government proposal is exceptionally valuable in terms of our sensitivity to this cooperation at the level of the international system, and now that one of the most important, in fact the most important supporter of the WHO, the Minister mentioned it, the United States has withdrawn from the funding of the WHO, it is great that Finland is showing the model within the framework of the European Union in this process. We are well aware that there has been a debate within the European Union between the various Member States that the WHO needs this support in this acute crisis, and it is therefore appropriate that Finland should now raise its support, additional funding, voluntary funding to that level, as the Minister mentioned, as it was in 2015. The global crisis of this kind, which is now at stake, requires global activities, and in this context Finland is now genuinely supporting multilateral crisis management, which is in the interests of a small country in all situations. International law and the multilateral system are the ones that will ultimately strengthen Finland's security and well-being in the global dimension. Finland alone is a small player, but together with others we are strong. This is a fine signal, a valuable signal that we are thus supporting the World Health Organisation with this significant additional effort in this situation, where we already have the resources to do so, but now we are making a contribution to this joint effort.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u140	Mr President! There will certainly be many more amending budgets at this rate. Of course, families and businesses need money when the corona crisis is going on, and in that prioritization we should now think about the fact that the money is being targeted specifically for the benefit of Finland and Finland. It is very important that it gives priority to the Finns. For example, when you think about this funding from the WHO, do we get everything we want with that money, that is, us, Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u141	Mr President! Today we really are dealing with the coming years of public finances and then we have this amending budget, and we have been discussing for a very long time today what kind of situation we have with businesses, economies and families and how tough we are in the economy. We have considered and discussed what cuts may be in the future, and in municipalities we are discussing tax increases and so forth. I am genuinely surprised when it is not long now, many days ago, when the United States announced that they will withdraw the funding, that at an unprecedented rate additional money will appear here. We have many people and families who live in a very difficult situation. I have not seen such a quick presentation yet, but of course I have not spent so much time here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u144	Mr President! The World Health Organisation has played a crucial role in tackling the pandemic crisis with determination, in making available as much research as possible to the authorities in different countries and in curbing this crisis globally. This is a global crisis, by definition, which no country can resolve alone. The disease will not stop, no matter what Finland does, because it can always come from somewhere else. We have seen that it is absolutely essential, especially for Finnish companies, that there is still some mobility. For example, workers are very much expected in agriculture, and keeping borders closed is not the solution in this situation, when it is absolutely essential to understand that it is precisely by means of global cooperation, by means of global action from now on, that it will be possible to achieve both economic and health. For example, the WHO plays an important role in coordinating the planning and investigation of medicines for this crisis when considering how to develop vaccinations. After all, the situation would be absurd if every country in the world, on its own and on its own, were to think about these solutions and not cooperate and wonder how these lifesaving solutions could be implemented as quickly as possible. It would therefore be truly disastrous if more countries were to turn to the United States and withdraw their support from such international cooperation, which plays a crucial role in preventing a pandemic and in tackling a pandemic. Global cooperation does not work very well if the situation is that everyone wants to get as much as possible, but no one wants to give anything of their own and does not want to contribute to the joint work that aims to save lives around the world. If you want to get it, you have to give it to me. That is how global cooperation works, and that is the only way we can stop this pandemic. If each country now turns just to look inward, then the pandemic will not stop. That is why I think it is a great decision that Finland has decided to go to cooperation projects to develop medicines for the development of vaccines, and that Finland also supports the organisation that specifically runs and supports this cooperation. In this Chamber it has also been heard from the people of Peru that the government should rather follow the recommendations of the World Health Organization more closely. With what resources will the World Health Organisation produce these recommendations if all countries go to the point where money cannot be given to the WHO even in the midst of the crisis? In this situation, we must be prepared to make investments if we want those benefits of global cooperation. It's the only way we're gonna get out of here. As far as the growing EU membership fees are concerned, one of the reasons for this is precisely that one of the old EU Member States, the United Kingdom, has made the very decision that they have decided to leave the EU. It is a good example that when one decides to leave when one decides to withdraw his membership fee, the burden then goes to others to pay. They are, of course, the noble brothers of the nationalist right who have been driving this too. If everyone really did this, we would no longer have international cooperation in the world, and that would be a very bad thing not only for the Finnish economy but also for the health and spirits of Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u145	Mr President! The United States has withdrawn its funding from the World Health Organisation, which is why we have here on the table this supplementary proposal for an amending budget, that we add money to the World Health Organisation for Finland. The World Health Organization (WHO) has become familiar to us MPs in Finland too, up to the fact that STT’s text messages, for example, are firmly on our phone. They have also been distributed here during the sessions, when this situation, the corona epidemic, was declared an epidemic, and so we started working in Finland. We have trusted the WHO study in the past and considered the international coordination work they have done to be important. I believe that this additional funding for the WHO is justified for two reasons. Firstly, when we look at this epidemic of coronavirus in Finland and beyond the pandemic, it is clear that the virus has caused this global crisis and must also be resolved in a global way. We do not yet know exactly what the duration of the virus is, but with international evaluation we are constantly informed about the way the virus has been managed and in which cases it has, for example, received a new wave of this kind. Second thing. Finland trusts science and research, and our government programme, for example, is based on strong assurances that we will take decisions based on science and research. I think it is of paramount importance that, in such a global unprecedented and new situation, we study information and base our decision on it, and it is also clear that it is not enough just Finnish information in order to anticipate such an exceptional situation. I am absolutely in favour of Finland relying on science and research and being prepared to support in such a situation where the United States has withdrawn its funding. As such, I consider President Trump's decision to be at least questionable in this situation, where the acute corona crisis is still taking place.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u146	Mr President! I think that representatives of Reijonen and the Sea used very wise words in at least some of their speeches. They said that our small money must be used for the benefit of Finland and Finns. I would have asked the honourable Members whether they have missed the fact that we are currently living in an exceptional state — is that so, Minister of Finance? — and the state of emergency is due to the fact that we have been struck by a very crafty fiend, an enemy from that world, an enemy who does not respect the borders of the states and does not even respect the borders of Finland. In this regard, I think it is quite natural for us to try to take out that Viper in such a way that we are acting internationally to defeat this enemy. The WHO, the World Health Organisation, is the number one player in the multilateral system in the direction of global control of this pandemic, and in my opinion, Minister, the WHO is also working for the benefit of Finland and Finland. And I suppose I understand that on that basis we have wanted to add our support to the WHO, that we can also make this global influence work through a multilateral system, that both domestic efforts and international efforts will help us Finns to overcome this difficult pandemic. Have I understood this, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u147	Mr President! It is extremely regrettable that in the United States President Trump has taken the decision that the United States will withdraw from funding, and I think it is a very responsible decision from Finland to be involved in this additional funding. Of course, EUR 5.5 million seems to be a great deal of money, but if all countries do the same, then of course it will at least make up for some of the United States' deficits. On the other hand, we must also remember that, in a certain way, I also understand President Trump's criticism of the fight against this corona crisis that the WHO has done. I am sure that there have also been some mistakes in the early stages and that it would have been possible to communicate a little better and more quickly the way in which this pandemic has started, so that the countries could be better prepared for it, but I think that the way in which the United States has reacted to this is a very wrong assessment of the situation. Right now we need such an international organisation, which will be able to function more effectively in the future, that in a certain way the assessment of its failure is not the place now, but when we have reached a slightly better stage. We need joint coordination, as has been said here before, in areas such as vaccine research, pharmaceutical research and such matters, which need a great deal of money and cooperation between countries. On the other hand, I also think it is important that Finland also takes care of sufficient resources in terms of vaccine research and pharmaceutical research, and I also ask you, Minister Kulmuni, to assess, from the point of view of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, whether Finland could continue to be one country in which vaccines are also manufactured. Now, this corona epidemic is leading to changes in international raw materials chains and logistics chains, also in terms of medication, in such a way that it may be possible for Europe to support these raw materials for manufacturing and also for the production itself to be imported in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u148	Mr President! This is, of course, the background to this attitude of US President Trump to Twitter, and he has originally read on Twitter what the WHO published on 14 January, that China would have acted openly in relation to the infection of the corona virus and, in addition, that the WHO would have praised China's transparency in these activities, and also that the WHO had compromised the view that there was no evidence of human-to-human infections. This was the background that Trump had then read, the WHO is in favour of this kind of Chinese expression, and I guess we have come to the conclusion that the President of the United States has seen the best of what it costs 40 million a year for an institution that provides disinformation in such a serious situation. In fact, though, if the total budget of the WHO through the UN and through the States is about 200 million, or more, dollars a year — do I understand correctly that the Minister mentioned that 20% was the United States, according to some press reports 15 % — what is the total budget of the WHO? If it is over 200 million, you would think that the work would continue there, even if one fifth of the funding was lost for a while. In that sense, I wonder why our government hastened to go immediately to patch up the United States operation, because at the same time we are aware that there are these wealthy foundations in the United States who have also expressed their support for the direct loss that came to the WHO, so I believe that this would certainly have been corrected through it. But, Minister, the question is when you will give THL more money. They seem to have problems: sometimes the information has been that you do not know when the mask is recommended and when it is not recommended, and then the ministry becomes a different tune, for example, along the whole way to whether new travel restrictions should be imposed on the part of northern Italy or part of Italy, and these handshakes have now been seen in Finland all the way that THL and ministries do not play together in these matters. And could you find some more experts for the THL who could bring this real information there? And secondly, what does the government intend to do to ensure that only correct information is available in Finland when making decisions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u149	Mr President! Strong and good leadership is required in crisis situations, especially good and ethical leadership. There is a need for up-to-date information, thought-out and weighed-down actions, wide-ranging cooperation with different actors. The announcement by the President of the United States, Trump, to cut the World Health Organization’s funding is not an example of this. Last year, the United States supported WHO’s activities as a whole with $400 million, about 15% of the WHO’s total annual budget. The time for cutting funding could not be worse. The United States and the majority of the world are still in the midst of a corona crisis. In many countries, the peak of the epidemic will not be reached until the next few weeks and months. In the United States, the number of deaths from corona is sadly high. Searching for a sinner won't help. In the end, no one wins. Multilateral cooperation and support for fragile regions to combat the crisis is needed right now in order to avoid the great threat of the humanitarian crisis in Africa, for example. In crises, the most vulnerable always suffer the most. More than ever, the work of the World Health Organization is needed. The WHO also retains its weight in the context of state exit strategies, in the preparation of them, when countries individually set out to implement them and seek to dismantle the barriers and restrictions that have been imposed. A coordinating body is needed, knowledge is needed and a strong consensus on action is needed. Thank you for Finland's global responsibility also in the context of the corona crisis. Now we are increasing funding for the WHO by more than EUR 5 million. We will return our own level of funding to the 2015 level. It is very difficult to fill the gap left by the United States, but if every country participates, it is in the midst of the crisis that we can secure the important work of the WHO to succeed in the global fight against the pandemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-57.u150	Mr President! Thank you for your questions and for the debate. The government believes that, in this situation, when Parliament has not yet dealt with the second amending budget of the year, it is possible to supplement it, and as a result of this situation, in which the funding of the WHO will indeed fall dramatically, we feel, in the midst of the corona virus, that the funding of the World Health Organisation is so crucial that we can contribute our small share to the effort. After all, this year there will be no spending limits limit, and next year, if there is a need to continue this WHO funding at this level, then it will of course require expenditure savings of the same size from somewhere else. But in this context of the corona epidemic, we think that this is justified, and that is why this supplementary proposal has been brought to Parliament. This year, following the corona virus, Parliament has indeed been given the biggest amending budgets and presentations in modern economic history in this country, and under normal circumstances, money taps would not be so loose. But since we want to defeat this virus, we are also prepared to take a huge debt. But that too is something we will have to deal with in the future, and we will be working on the sustainability and balance of public finances next month when we once again bring to Parliament a major amending budget, with which we will then try to get the economy moving as well. But the best way for all to do so is for us to tackle this virus as soon as possible, and so all efforts must be directed to overcome it.
